Minutes for January 17, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 f i 2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Messrs. Leavitt, Dahl, and Egertson, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 

163 
1/17/67 
-16-
Miss Hart and Messrs. Cloth, Forrestal, Shuter, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher and Keir of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Maguire, Goodfellow, Harris, and Johnsen 
of the Division of Examinations 
Application of Wells Fargo Bank (Item No. 1). The Board 
approved unanimously a letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, approving the establishment of a branch in Larkspur, Marin 
County. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Savings & Trust Company of Indiana. A memorandum 
from the Division of Examinations dated January 12, 1967, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
by The Savings 6c Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, Pennsylvania, to 
acquire the assets and assume the deposit liabilities of The First 
National Bank of Saltsburg, Saltsburg, Pennsylvania. The Division's 
recommendation was favorable, as was that of the Banking Markets Section 
of the Division of Research and Statistics. 
Following comments by Mr. Egertson summarizing the material 
that had been distributed, the application was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this 
decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Genesco matter (Item No. 2). The Securities and Exchange Com-
mission had asked for the Board's opinion as to possible violations of 
Regulation U (Loans by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 

1 6 4 
1/17/67 
-16-
Registered Stocks) by two national banks in Nashville, Tennessee, in 
regard to loans to finance employee stock purchase plans of Genesco, 
Inc., also of Nashville. After exploration of the situation by the 
staff, there was distributed a memorandum on the subject dated January 5, 
1967, from the Legal Division; and on January 6 the Board agreed to de-
fer sending a reply to the Securities and Exchange Commission until 
after a visit to the Board's offices by certain of the parties involved 
on January 18. The matter was on today's agenda in order that, in prep-
aration for the visit, the Board might determine whether it agreed with 
the conclusions and approach of the Legal Division, as set forth in the 
January 5 memorandum and attached draft of reply to the Commission. The 
Commission desired an early reply from the Board because of the possible 
bearing of the question upon certain Genesco prospectuses that were 
awaiting approval by the Commission. 
The underlying situation and developments through which infor-
mation regarding it had been assembled were set out in detail in the 
memorandum. In summary, it appeared that over a period of years Genesco 
had made loans to its employees, through a trustee (W. M. Jarman), to 
finance purchases of its registered stock under employee stock purchase 
Plans. The employees had given notes to evidence the loans, and stock 
and notes had been pledged with First American National Bank and Third 
National Bank, both of Nashville, Tennessee, against a continuing 
credit that for the most part had not exceeded the loan value of the 

165 
1/17/67 
-16-
pledged stock under applicable supplements to Regulation U. Once each 
year, however, around the end of the fiscal year of Genesco, the loans 
had been substantially increased. Figures had been made available to 
the Board only for the years 1961 through 1966, but in each of those 
years the loans were considerably in excess of the maximum loan value 
of the pledged stock, under the applicable supplements, for periods 
ranging approximately from six to eight weeks. 
The draft letter would express the Board's conclusions that 
during those periods the loans in question had been in violation of 
Regulation U; that the banks had not been justified in continuing to 
make such loans in reliance on a 1951 opinion of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta that was specifically restricted to the circumstances 
of a loan that gave rise to an inquiry at that time; and that there was 
no justification for the contention that the notes of the employees, 
which were turned over to the banks, were entitled to loan value as 
"other collateral" under section 221.1(a) of Regulation U. 
Miss Hart commented in supplementation of the distributed mate-
rial, after which members of the Board requested clarification of certain 
facts. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Shepardson 
that the somewhat lengthy recital of questions and conclusions in the 
draft letter be summarized in final paragraphs, and with a suggestion 
by Governor Robertson that a copy of the letter be sent to the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency. 

1/17/67 
-5-
The discussion disclosed unanimous agreement by the Board with 
the conclusions set forth in the draft letter. It was understood that, 
in the absence of development tomorrow of any additional information 
that should be given consideration by the Board, and after editorial 
revisions, the letter would be sent. 
Secretary's Note: The letter was sent 
under date of January 23, 1967. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Regulation M. On December 12, 1966, the Board discussed a draft 
of Regulation M (under the title Foreign Activities of National Banks) 
that had been revised in the light of comments received in response to 
publication of an earlier draft in the Federal Register. The proposed 
revision was designed to implement the amendment to section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act approved July 1, 1966 (Public Law 89-485) that 
broadened the latitude of national banks to invest in or make loans to 
foreign banks, subject to such regulations as the Board might prescribe. 
At the conclusion of the December 12 discussion the matter was deferred 
to afford opportunity for further study, and Governor Maisel requested 
that in the interim the staff prepare an explanation of the rationale 
for limiting to 25 per cent of a member bank's capital and surplus (or 
any other figure) the amount that could be placed by the member bank in 
equity investments in foreign banks, which figure would include invest-
ments in Edge and agreement corporations. Such an explanation had been 
provided in a distributed memorandum dated January 3, 1967, from the 
Division of Examinations. 

167 
1/17/67 
-16-
The memorandum brought out that the underlying principle was ' 
the protection of the investing bank's depositors by limiting the 
potential losses from such a foreign equity investment to a fraction 
of the bank's own capital and surplus. 
Banks had not been limited by 
statute or regulation in the amount they could invest in their foreign 
branches; they were completely responsible for such branches and their 
liability for losses incurred in them could not be limited. 
If their 
foreign equity investments amounted to complete ownership, it might be 
said that the same situation prevailed and the foreign subsidiary was 
tantamount to a branch. 
However, the percentage of ownership represented 
by equity investments varied from fractions of one per cent to 100 per 
cent, and the degree of control and influence the investing bank could 
exert diminished according to the gap between its equity percentage and 
total ownership. 
The memorandum noted that it might be argued that if the Board 
was to approve each foreign equity investment specifically it would 
have sufficient control over the risk exposure of a bank to make an 
a8gregate limit on such investments unnecessary. However, the necessity 
to make ad hoc decisions as to when particular institutions had reached 
their maximum permissible risk exposure carried a potential for inequi-
table and discriminatory treatment among institutions. Moreover, a 
known aggregate limitation would enable banks to plan their investments. 
Since any limitation imposed would have to be arbitrary and might not 

168 
1/17/67 
-16-
serve all times and circumstances, a generous limit would seem advis-
able, and such a limit (25 per cent) had been provided in the proposed 
revision of Regulation M. The limitation was not required by statute, 
and therefore the Board could change it in the light of experience. 
Summary remarks by the staff on the revised draft regulation 
and the material covered in the January 3 memorandum were followed by 
a discussion during which Governor Mitchell referred to the question 
whether an aggregate investment limitation was necessary inasmuch as 
the Board had control over each proposed individual investment. Mr. Shay 
suggested that an aggregate limitation should be helpful to the banks in-
sofar as it would enable them to plan in advance, and at the same time 
such a provision would afford a protective outer limit. Mr. Dahl noted 
that the proposed 25 per cent limitation was in excess of anything that 
had been suggested by the banks (although some of the banks had suggested 
that there be no limitation at all). Governor Mitchell then indicated 
that while he did not regard the 25 per cent limitation as a matter of 
great moment, generally speaking, he did have some question whether it 
would not discriminate against smaller banks. 
Governor Mitchell then asked for further clarification about the 
limitations on loans by a U.S. bank to a foreign subsidiary, and Mr. 
Forrestal pointed out that banks were subject to the limitation, imposed 
by section 5200 of the Revised Statutes, of 10 per cent of capital and 
surplus on loans to any one borrower. He said that the banks had never 

169 
1/17/67 
-8-
indicated that they wanted to be relieved of that limitation; rather, 
they had sought relief from the limitations in section 23A of the 
Federal Reserve Act on loans to affiliates and collateral requirements. 
Governor Mitchell said it was his understanding that Chase 
Manhattan Bank sought parity with First National City Bank (New York), 
which followed the practice of operating abroad through branches rather 
than subsidiaries. Mr. Dahl pointed out that Chase Bank had such a 
large lending limit that it was difficult to see how Chase would be 
circumscribed in lending to an affiliated foreign bank. Mr. Forrestal 
noted that the Board was not at liberty to grant relief from the provi-
sions of section 5200 relating to extensions of credit to any single 
borrower. He added that he felt the draft regulation went as far as 
the Board legally could. 
After further discussion it was agreed that the proposed revi-
sion of Regulation M, as presently drafted, would be published for com-
ment in the Federal Register, with about 15 days allowed for submission 
of views. 
Cincinnati Branch building. In a letter of October 5, 1966, 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland requested approval to proceed 
with the preparation of detailed plans and specifications for a new 
building for the Cincinnati Branch. 
(The Board had authorized the prep-
aration of preliminary plans on November 15, 1965.) There had now been 
distributed a memorandum dated January 12, 1967, from the Division of 

l ? o 
1/17/67 
-9-
Bank Operations describing the proposed building and its site, giving 
information regarding costs, and reporting the results of conferences 
with Mr. Witherell, the Board's Consulting Architect, and with Mr. Bouck 
of the U.S. Secret Service regarding certain features of the preliminary 
plans. 
One question related to vault construction. The preliminary 
Plans called for vault walls of 24-inch concrete with Steelcrete rein-
forcement. In accordance with the Board's recent discussions regarding 
the use of Steelcrete, it had been suggested to the Cleveland Reserve 
Bank that the vault walls be 27 inches thick but without Steelcrete 
reinforcement. The Bank had indicated willingness to accept that change, 
but the point was called to the Board's attention because the vault wall 
with ordinary reinforcement that the Board had approved for the Denver 
Branch building was 30 inches thick. 
Another question related to the placement of the proposed build-
ing in such a way that it would abut adjoining buildings. The Secret 
Service had pointed out several potential security problems in such an 
arrangement. These comments had been transmitted to the Reserve Bank, 
which had responded by pointing out structural features that were be-
lieved to minimize the security risks. 
The third question had to do with the planned use of the secu-
rity court for merchandise trucks and employee parking as well as for 
security vehicles. Although both the Board's Consulting Architect and 

1 7 1 
1/17/67 
-16-
the Secret Service objected to that arrangement, the Reserve Bank 
reiterated its belief that the security court as designed was desir-
able from both an operational and security standpoint. 
The memorandum concluded by suggesting that a meeting be 
arranged with representatives of the Cleveland Bank, the Bank's archi-
tects, the Board's consultants, members of the Board's staff, and at 
least one member of the Board, to discuss the unresolved questions. 
The discussion developed a consensus in favor of holding a con-
ference such as the Division's memorandum had recommended, with the 
Board represented by its Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans (Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer). There was 
also agreement with a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that the Bank be 
invited to include in the conference a representative of the Board of 
Directors of the Cincinnati Branch, particularly since Governor Brimmer 
had received the impression from a recent visit to the Reserve Bank 
that some differences of opinion existed between the head office and 
the branch. 
Secretary's Note: The conference 
was arranged for January 27, 1967. 
Mortgage discounts (Item No. 3). At the meeting on January 12, 
1967, the Board discussed a proposed reply to a request from the Bureau 
of the Budget for views on a draft report prepared by the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development relating to mortgage discounts. The report 
had been prepared in response to a request in a 1966 conference report 

172 
1/17/67 
-16-
by the Congressional Committees on Banking and Currency that expressed 
"deep concern over the practice of discounting FHA-insured and VA-
guaranteed home loans" and stated that "in view of the fact that dis-
counts presently appear to be the worst in our history, it is urgent 
that the Department of Housing and Urban Development make a study of 
this practice and promptly report to the Congress with recommendation 
for the control or elimination of discounts," whether on Federally 
underwritten or conventional mortgages. One recommendation in the draft 
report of the Department of Housing and Urban Development was that 
"every possible effort be made to insulate the mortgage market from 
fluctuations in the general capital markets when the latter respond, 
as they must, to monetary and fiscal policy actions," and one of the 
specific recommendations in the report was that the authority granted 
to the Federal Open Market Committee to buy and sell direct obligations 
of any agency of the U.S. Government be used to buy debentures of the 
Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board in lieu of Treasury obligations. There had now been distributed 
a second draft of reply to the Bureau of the Budget, prepared in the 
light of comments during the January 12 discussion. 
Governor Maisel, who had expressed a number of reservations 
with respect to the previous draft of letter, indicated that he con-
sidered the revised draft a substantial improvement. However, he 
believed that the revised draft was too negative with respect to the 

173 
1/17/67 
-16-
function of the Federal National Mortgage Association and the Federal 
Home Loan Banks in aiding the adjustment of mortgage markets to shift-
ing credit flows. Accordingly, he had drafted a paragraph that he 
would suggest be included in the letter. Copies of the suggested inser-
tion were distributed, and after discussion it was agreed that the para-
graph should be included. 
Governor Maisel also indicated that his preference would be to 
omit two other paragraphs contained in the revised draft letter since 
it was not clear to him that the analysis contained in them was proper. 
The portions of the draft letter to which Governor Maisel referred were 
discussed at some length, and the consensus was that the paragraphs 
should be retained. However, agreement was reached on certain modifi-
cations of language in light of the views developed during the discussion. 
Approval then was given to a letter to the Budget Bureau in the 
form attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance . 
Open Market Committee policy record. There had been distributed 
memoranda from Mr. Holland, as Secretary of the Federal Open Market 
Committee, dated January 12, 13, and 16, 1967, submitting, with a recom-
mendation for their publication in the Board's Annual Report for 1966, 
Proposed entries covering policy actions of the Committee during 1966. 
The entries had been revised to take account of comments received from 

174 
1/17/67 
-16-
Committee members and staff following the distribution of preliminary 
drafts for the respective meetings. 
Also submitted was a prefatory statement similar in form to 
those contained in the Annual Reports for the past several years, but 
including a sentence specifying that the entries were based on informa-
tion available to the Committee at the time of the respective meetings, 
rather than data as they may have been subsequently revised. 
The revised draft entries in the form now before the Board were 
regarded as reflecting accurately the policy decisions reached by the 
Open Market Committee during the year and as describing satisfactorily 
the reasons underlying such decisions. 
Question was raised only with 
respect to the statement of reasons for dissenting votes on the current 
economic policy directive issued at the December 13, 1966, meeting of 
the Committee, Governor Brimmer expressing the view that the preliminary 
draft, which attributed reasons to the individual dissenting Committee 
members, had reflected more accurately the statements recorded in the 
minutes of that meeting. 
Governor Daane, who had suggested the change in approach on 
behalf of the dissenting members, indicated that he had done so princi-
pally because he felt that the consolidated statement served to present 
a somewhat more satisfactory interpretation of the views of the four 
dissenting members, whose reasons were essentially similar in nature. 
He noted that he had compared the revised entry carefully with the 

175 
1/17/67 
-16-
minutes to be sure that it was accurate and contained no retrospective 
judgment; he had also requested the Committee staff to confirm that 
point. He noted that in the course of Committee discussions those mem-
bers who held particular policy views often did not repeat in detail 
the variety of reasons cited previously by others. 
In further discussion members of the Board pointed out that the 
views of individual members comprising the majority were not individu-
alized in the policy record and that it would therefore seem reasonable 
to consolidate the views of individual dissenting members, if that could 
be done to the satisfaction of the parties concerned, in cases where 
the reasons underlying the dissenting votes were similar. 
The Open Market Committee policy record entries for the year 
1966 were then approved for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report in 
the form in which they had been submitted for the Board's consideration. 
Coordinating Committee. Governor Robertson reported that a 
special meeting of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation was 
being called at the request of the Treasury, which had expressed a 
desire to have the Committee's views on three pieces of proposed legis-
lation. The first was the bill introduced by Senator Javits at the 
last session of Congress to provide for Federal control of the activi-
ties of foreign banks in the United States. The second was the proposal 
for Federal chartering of mutual savings banks. The third related to 
the recommendation that might be made for extension of the legislation 

1 7 6 
1/17/67 
-16-
enacted last fall to provide broadened regulatory authority with respect 
to interest and dividend rates payable by banks and savings and loan 
associations. 
Governor Robertson outlined his tentative thinking on some of 
the questions presented by the respective legislative proposals, and 
other members of the Board also commented in preliminary fashion on 
some of the issues involved. It was understood that Governor Robertson 
would have material distributed to the Board with a view to further 
consideration of the several matters. In that connection Governor 
Robertson pointed out that his objective would be to obtain guidance 
prior to the meeting of the Coordinating Committee; he would not want 
the Board to commit itself to any particular position at this stage. 
In regard to the legislation that would provide for Federal 
control of the activities of foreign banks in the United States, Gover-
nor Brimmer brought out that he had been working with the Board's staff 
on that matter for some time and that the staff had compiled a substan-
tial document, with recommendations, for the Board's consideration. He 
outlined the nature of views expressed in the staff documentation and 
indicated that the material would be distributed to the Board promptly 
so that it might be available for consideration prior to the Coordinat-
ing Committee meeting. 
Annex building. Governor Shepardson reported certain informa-
tion he had obtained regarding questions raised during yesterday's 

177 
1/17/67 
-16-
discussion of the proposed annex building to be constructed on the 
Board's property to the north of C Street. However, time did not 
permit sufficient discussion to resolve the questions, and it was 
understood that the annex building matter would be given further 
consideration at an early opportunity. 
Appointment 
Samuel Pizer as Senior Economist, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $21,799, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Lee R. Thompson, Computer Operator (Trainee), Division of Data 
Processing, from $4,936 to $5,331 per annum, with a change in title 
to Computer Operator, effective February 26, 1967. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Salary increase 

178 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/17/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 17, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
San Francisco, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Wells Fargo Bank, 
San Francisco, California, of a branch in the vicinity 
of the intersection of Sir Francis Drake Boulevard and 
La Cuesta Drive, Larkspur, Marin County, California, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

179 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
Item No. 2 
1/17/67 
RES** 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 23, 1967 
Mr. Lawrence Williams, 
Branch Chief, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
Division of Trading and Markets, 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Dear Mr. Williams: 
This refers to your request for an opinion of the Board as 
to (1) whether certain loans by First American National Bank ("First") 
and Third National Bank ("Third"), both of Nashville, Tennessee, to 
Mr. W. M. Jarman, trustee, to finance the purchasing and carrying of 
stock of Genesco, Inc., under certain employee stock purchase plans 
of Genesco, were subject to the Board's Regulation U, "Loans by Banks 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks", and 
(2) if so, whether the amount of the loans was in excess of the loan 
value of the collateral under applicable supplements to the regulation. 
It appears that under a collateral pooling agreement between First 
and Third, all the stock held by each secures the advances of both 
banks equally. 
Accordingly, the total credits extended by both.are 
discussed hereafter as if they comprised a single loan. 
Stock of 
Genesco is registered on the New York Stock Exchange. 
Section 221.1(a) of Regulation U provides that 
"No bank shall make any loan secured directly or indirectly 
by any stock for the purpose of purchasing or carrying any 
stock registered on a national securities exchange . . . in 
an amount exceeding the maximum loan value of the collateral, 
as prescribed from time to time for stocks in § 221.4 (the 
Supplement to Regulation U) and as determined by the bank in 
good faith for any collateral other than stocks." 
Under Genesco's "Employee Stock Purchase Plan" and "Special 
Stock Purchase Plan", the company from time to time advances funds to 
Mr. Jarman, as trustee, to purchase on the New York Stock Exchange 
shares of Genesco stock that thereafter are sold to employees under 
the plans. 
The purchasing employees give Mr. Jarman, trustee, their 
notes for payment due for the shares they purchase, and the notes and 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 20 
Mr. Lawrence Williams 
-2-
certificates for the corresponding shares are deposited with the 
trust departments of the banks and held there for the account of 
the banks* commercial departments. 
Each year, around the end of Genesco!s fiscal year 
(July 31), the company makes a practice of reducing indebtedness 
due to it, and the trustee borrows from the two named banks, with 
no increase in collateral, enough to repay the total advances he 
has received from Genesco during the preceding fiscal year. 
On 
July 31, 1966, for example, the banks held Genesco stock with a 
current market value of $33.4 million against total loans of 
$26.5 million. 
Figures submitted by counsel for Genesco indicate 
that the corresponding amounts, as of July 31 of each year, were 
(1961) $13.5 and $6.5 million; (1962) $17.3 and $12.7 million; 
(1963) $23.9 and $18.4 million; (1964) $28.2 and $19.1 million; 
(1965) $38.5 and $24 million. 
The permissible loan value of stock 
was that prescribed by the supplement to the regulation in effect 
at the time each advance was made. 
Over the period the advances 
were made, the.loan value prescribed was 30 per cent from July 28, 
i960, to July 10, 1962, 50 per cent from July 10, 1962, to 
November 6, 1963, and 30 per cent from November 6, 1963, to date. 
These fiscal-year-end loans are in excess of the combined 
loan limit of the banks (now $2.5 million each), and the banks 
immediately dispose of the excess by selling participations to 
other banks. Within 45 to 60 days after the end of Genesco's fiscal 
year, the company makes fresh advances to the trustee, who pays 
down his bank loans until they are in the neighborhood of $3 to 
$5 million, where they remain for the balance of the year. 
Section 221.3(b)(1) of Regulation U defines a loan to 
"carry" stock as one whose purpose is "to enable the borrower to 
reduce or retire indebtedness which was originally incurred to 
Purchase" registered stock. 
It is plain from the above account 
that the loans served to finance the purchasing and carrying of 
stock of Genesco, and that collateral for the loans included the 
Purchased stock. Accordingly, it is clear that the loans were 
subject to Regulation U, and were in excess of the maximum loan 
value of the stock under applicable supplements to the regulation 
for periods varying from six to eight weeks in each of the years 
from 1961 through 1966. 
The bank loan arrangement described above apparently 
had its inception around 1951, when Third asked the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta whether a loan subject to Regulation U would result 
if the bank took over certain notes held by Genesco, representing 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
181 
Mr. Lawrence Williams 
-3-
loans made by the company to its employees to finance their purchase 
of Genesco stock. 
To avoid having the loan made directly to the 
company, notes and stock would be transferred to a trustee, who 
would borrow against them from the bank. 
It was represented that 
there had been no thought, at the time the loans to the employees 
were originally made, of having them taken over by a bank, and that 
the funds flowing from the bank loans were needed by Genesco for 
ordinary corporate purposes, not for purchasing or carrying securities. 
The Reserve Bank replied that while "this type of case 
presents very close and difficult questions" a loan by a bank under 
the circumstances described would be permitted under the regulation, 
that is to say, need not be considered to be for the purpose of 
purchasing or carrying registered stock. However, the reply stated 
that this opinion would not apply to any loans by the bank secured 
by employee loans that had been made after the inception of the 
inquiry. While it was possible to conclude that the original bank 
loan to the trustee was for the purpose of providing the corporation 
with working capital, the situation would be quite different were 
such a pattern of lending to become established. 
Thus, the Reserve 
Bank recognized that any further loans by Genesco to employees (either 
directly or indirectly through the trustee) would be made in antici-
pation of the bank taking them over, and that bank credits relating 
to such loans would be for the purpose of purchasing or carrying the 
stock. Accordingly, it is clear that the Reserve Bank*s opinion did 
not justify the banks in treating subsequent loans to the trustee as 
if Regulation U did not apply. 
It has been suggested by counsel for Genesco that since 
the loan agreements between employees and trustee authorized the 
Pledging of both notes and stock, and both were in fact pledged, the 
notes were "collateral other than stocks" within the meaning of 
section 221.1(a) of the regulation and were entitled to "good faith" 
loan value. Officers of First and Third state that the banks would 
have been quite willing to discount similar notes made by employees 
°f a company such as Genesco, if offered by a finance company, for 
example, without security. However, under the facts described above, 
it is plain that the trustee served as a mere conduit for trans-
mitting employee notes and purchased stock to the bank. Thus, the 
notes were not, in themselves, collateral, any more than if the 
employees themselves had given them directly to the banks. 
It is 
unnecessary, in this case, to decide whether notes given in connection 
with a loan to purchase stock could serve as collateral for a regulated 
loan if discounted by a third party who had obtained them in an armxs 
length transaction. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
182 
Mr, Lawrence Williams 
-4-
One further point remains to be discussed. 
Section 221.3(q) 
of Regulation U provides, with an exception not applicable here, that 
"Any loan to a person not subject to . . . (Regulation U 
or to . . . (Regulation T) [who is] engaged principally, 
or as one of the person's important activities, in the 
business of making loans for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying stocks registered on a national securities 
exchange, is a loan for the purpose of purchasing or 
carrying stocks so registered . . . Any loan to any such 
borrower . . . is a loan 'subject to § 221.1' regardless 
of whether or not the loan is secured by any stock; and 
no bank shall make any such loan . . . to any such 
borrower . . . without collateral or without the loan 
being secured as would be required by . '. .[Regulation U] 
if it were secured by any stock." 
It appears that one of the important activities of the trustee has 
been to make loans to employees of the company to finance their 
purchases of registered (Genesco) stock. 
It is assumed that the 
trustee is not compensated for this activity, but from a legal 
point of view, it is possible to be engaged in a business without 
being so compensated. 
If the Board were to conclude that the trustee 
is a person described in section 221.3(q), then, under the second 
sentence of that section, banks could not make loans to the trustee 
without security, or without the loan being secured as required by 
Regulation U for a stock-secured loan, unless the loan and its 
purposes were "effectively and unmistakably separated and disas-
sociated from any financing or refinancing, for the borrower or 
others, of any purchasing or carrying of" registered stocks as 
provided in section 221.3(q) thereof. 
To summarize, then, it appears that over a period of years, 
Genesco has made loans to its employees, through a trustee, to 
finance purchases of its registered stock under employee stock 
purchase plans. The employees have given notes to evidence the 
loans, and stock and notes have been pledged with First and Third 
against a continuing credit which for most of each year, has not 
exceeded the loan value of the pledged stock under applicable 
supplements to Regulation U. 
Once each year, however, around the 
end of the fiscal year of Genesco (July 31), the loans have been 
substantially increased. 
Figures have been made available to the 
Board only for the years 1961 through 1966, but in each of these 
years, the loans were considerably in excess of the maximum loan 
value of the pledged stock, under the applicable supplements, for 
periods ranging approximately from six to eight weeks. 

B O A R D 
DF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
23 
Mr. Lawrence Williams 
-5 
The banks have stated that they relied on a 1951 opinion 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, relating to the original 
bank loan in the series, which stated that such a loan would not be 
subject to the regulation if the credit was to be used by Genesco 
for working capital purposes, and if it had not been contemplated, 
at the time the employee loans were originally made by Genesco, 
that a bank would eventually acquire those loans. The opinion of 
the Reserve Bank explicitly stated, however, that this view would 
not apply to any further loans of the same kind, and it is clear 
therefore, that it did not justify the banks in treating subsequent 
loans as not subject to the regulation. 
It has also been contended that the notes of the employees, 
which were turned over to the banks, were entitled to loan value as 
"other collateral" under section 221.1(a) of the regulation. 
However 
it is plain that the trustee actually served as a conduit for passing 
the notes to the banks, and that the notes were not themselves 
collateral any more than any other individual note given by a 
borrower to a lending bank would be "collateral" to secure the loan. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the loans in question 
were in violation of Regulation U for periods of up to eight weeks in 
each of the years 1961 through 1966. 
Information before the Board 
indicates, however, that the loans do not at present exceed the 
maximum loan valueof the collateral under the regulation. 
Your attention is also called to the possibility that 
although the facts before it do not require a determination on this 
Point, if the question were submitted to it, the Board might find 
that the trustee is a lender subject to section 221.3(q) of Regula-
tion U, in which the case the regulation would forbid a bank to make 
loans of the kind described unless the loans were secured as provided 
in section 221.1(a) of the regulation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
1/17/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20S51 
address orriciAL oorrhponocnoc 
TO THE BOARD 
January 18, 1967. 
Mr. W. H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to your memorandum of January 5, 1967, 
asking for comments on the draft "Report on Mortgage Discounts", 
Prepared by the Department of Housing and Urban Development in 
response to a Congressional request for recommendations of ways 
to control or eliminate such discounts. 
The Board of Governors believes that any policy regarding 
mortgage discounts must recognize at the outset that discounts 
(and premiums) are the standard method by which returns on instru-
ments carrying fixed rates of interest are adjusted to currently 
prevailing yields in financial markets generally. This adjustment 
Process occurs not only in mortgage markets but in other financial 
markets, and on both primary and secondary transactions. 
The 
Process is essential to effective clearing of markets since it 
®£courages lenders to invest their available funds in those sectors 
where effective credit demands are most pressing. 
When contract rates on mortgages can be negotiated 
reely--as on new conventional loans—they respond rather flexibly 
0 general changes in interest rate levels. Hence the magnitude 
o f discounts on new conventional mortgages tends to be fairly 
small, 
it should be noted too that the discounts that do develop 
ypically serve to compensate lenders for one-time costs of 
closing loans. 

Mr. W. H, Rommel 
- 2 -
185 
Discounts on FHA- and VA-underwritten mortgages, on the 
other hand, tend to vary a great deal more. As the HUD report 
implies, this greater variability results precisely because the 
contract rates on such loans are set at one administratively 
determined national rate which changes rather infrequently. 
As 
a result, some discounts are present on FHA- and VA-underwritten 
mortgages at all times, due to geographic differences in market 
rate levels. 
But in periods of generally rising market yields, 
discounts usually deepen substantially further. 
In this latter 
circumstance, deeper discounts are required to encourage lenders 
to continue investing in FHA and VA loans, for unless the effective 
yields on such loans remain in line with advancing yields on other 
capital market instruments, private funds available for FHA and VA 
mortgages tend to be shut off. 
The Board agrees with the implicit conclusion of the HUD 
report that renewed efforts to eliminate mortgage discounts by 
means of the statutory or administrative measures used in the past 
would be unwise and, if attempted, ineffective. 
The Board strongly 
disagrees, however, with the major recommendation of the report 
that the appropriate remedy to cyclical variability in mortgage 
discounts is to insulate the mortgage market from general capital 
market fluctuations that respond to monetary and fiscal policy 
actions. 
The HUD analysis recognizes that FNMA and the Federal 
Home Loan Banks perform a necessary function during periods of 
rapid financial change by aiding in the adjustment of mortgage 
markets to shifting credit flows. 
These agencies were organized 
expressly to smooth this transition process, because imperfections 
the private institutional structure would otherwise tend to 
create rather abrupt and discontinuous responses to rapid changes, 
What the HUD analysis fails to recognize is the limited extent to 
Which this smoothing process can in fact limit the range of fluc-
tuation in mortgage rates. 
Only through a direct subsidy program 
can a full adjustment be made for discounts, if the fixed interest 
rate on insured or guaranteed mortgages is maintained too far from 
what it would otherwise be in the market. 
Specifically, the HUD proposal would attempt to insulate 
m°rtgage markets by enlisting the Federal Reserve to make massive 
secondary market purchases of FNMA and Federal Home Loan Bank 
debentures. 
The objective of these purchases would be to support 
a larger and less costly volume of new FNMA and FHLB borrowing than 
would otherwise be possible, given the prevailing conditions of 
general credit restraint. 
Enlarged borrowing by these agencies 

Mr. W. H, Rommel 
- 2 -
186 
would then be expected to expand public credit flows to mortgage 
markets--through larger secondary market purchases of FHA and VA 
mortgages by the FNMA and larger FHLB advances to member S&L's. 
As public credit flows increased, mortgage rates would come under 
downward pressure, and according to the HUD report mortgage dis-
counts would tend to vanish. 
In effect, the HUD proposal thus 
calls for pegging of interest rates at levels below those which 
would otherwise prevail—in both the market for new agency debt 
and the market for residential mortgages. 
The HUD report explicitly acknowledges that Federal 
Reserve open market operations must be governed by broad consid-
erations of national monetary policy. 
But it does not seem to 
recognize that attempting to maintain both fixed contract rates 
and minimal discounts on FHA and VA mortgages would become 
impossible during periods of inflationary pressure when credit 
demands are large and economic policy is seeking to restrain 
aggregate spending. 
Federal Reserve purchases of agency debentures 
would clearly help to finance larger intervention in the mortgage 
market by FNMA and the Federal Home Loan Banks. 
But yield spreads 
favoring mortgages would be narrowed as the expanded flow of 
public funds exerted downward pressure on mortgage rates. 
Private 
financial institutions with diversified portfolio possibilities 
thus would be encouraged to shift funds out of mortgages, so long 
as monetary policy remained unchanged. And lenders capable of 
shifting portfolios represent a fairly large share of the mortgage 
market, particularly in the case of FHA and VA mortgages. 
Moreover since total net purchases of securities by the 
Federal Reserve would have to be determined by general monetary 
considerations, large Federal Reserve acquisitions of FNMA and 
FHLBB issues necessarily would be offset by correspondingly smaller 
Purchases (or net sales) of other Federal securities. 
This pro-
cess of substitution would tend to exert upward pressures on U.S. 
Government security yields, and hence on bond yields generally. 
In short, while implementation of the HUD recommendation 
would very likely produce some net expansion in total mortgage 
flows initially, as time passed the operation would tend to become 
self-defeating. 
To the extent public credit began to be offset 
by 
switching of private funds out of mortgages, downward pressures 
on mortgage rates could not be sustained, and mortgage discounts 
would tend to persist. 
In these circumstances, further efforts 
to reduce discounts could be successful only as direct Government 
financial assistance came gradually to assume a dominant position 
in mortgage markets, to the extent eventually that most private 
lenders were driven out. 

1 8 7 
Mr. W. H. Rommel 
-4-
Because of these likely consequences, the HUD recommenda-
tion runs contrary to the general guidelines laid out in the 1963 
report of the President's Committee on Federal Credit Programs. 
Those guidelines called for Government credit programs that should, 
in principle, supplement or stimulate private lending, rather than 
substitute for it, and for secondary market operations that should 
be consonant with the objectives of general monetary policy. 
The 
Board of Governors continues to endorse these guidelines. 
Even if the HUD program stopped short of the extreme 
objective of eliminating all mortgage discounts and sought merely 
to lower discounts to the limited extent possible within the 
constraints of an unchanged monetary policy, the Board of Governors 
would still oppose use of Federal Reserve open market operations 
for this purpose. Large scale purchases of FNMA and Federal Home 
Loan Bank debentures would still be required; these would tend to 
dominate secondary market activity in Federal agency issues, and 
thus to weaken the existing market by inhibiting the decision-
making processes of private underwriters and investors. 
Moreover, 
as time passed, Federal Reserve security holdings would become 
increasingly heavy in FNMA. and FHLBB debentures. 
This could pose 
serious technical problems for the Open Market Account Manager 
when he had to sell securities to realize day-to-day bank reserve 
objectives; in 1966, for example, open market operations required 
gross Federal Reserve sales and retirements of Treasury securities 
aggregating more than $12 billion. 
In the last analysis, the purpose of the HUD recommenda-
tion is to prevent rates paid by those borrowing on FHA and VA 
mortgages from rising in periods of credit stringency as much as 
the rise in rates paid by other long-term borrowers. 
If Congress 
decides that it _is socially desirable for rates paid by FHA and 
VA borrowers to be lower, even when general economic policy is 
seeking to restrain total national spending, this purpose could 
be achieved much more efficiently through direct subsidy programs 
to lenders or borrowers than by attempting to distort market prices 
as a means of rechanneling credit flows throughout the capital 
markets. 
— 
, 
\ 
The Board believes that the greatest progress in helping 
the mortgage market can be made over the longer run through the 
development of Federal policies designed to improve its flexibility 
in competing with other markets for the limited supply of credit 
funds available. 
What appears to be required is a variety of 
improvements in the technical characteristics of the mortgage 
market and in the powers and practices of the principal financial 

Mr. W. H. Rommel 
- 5 -
188 
• 
institutions supplying funds to it. The HUD report itself suggests 
some of the approaches which offer promise in this area—e.g., 
those relating to secondary market trading, Federal chartering 
of mutual savings banks, and greater uniformity in State laws 
relating to mortgage investment. 
But for the report's major recommendation that the Federal 
Reserve provide substantial direct support for the secondary market 
in FNMA. and FHLBB securities, the Board must reiterate its strong 
opposition. 
The operations of the System in buying and selling 
Federal securities must be dictated by considerations of general 
monetary policy, rather than by the need to support any particular 
type of credit use. We believe that the HUD recommendation to the 
contrary is not in the public interest. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
L
