609 
. 5-67) 
Minutes for November 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

4261 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Craig of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Sarfati, Thompson, and Wiles of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of Wakefield Trust Company, Wakefield, Massachusetts, and 
Melrose Trust Company, Melrose, Massachusetts, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Corporation, the conclusion reading as follows: 

11/6/67 
-2-
Because of the long-standing majority ownership of 
both Wakefield Trust Company, Wakefield, Massachusetts, 
and Melrose Trust Company, Melrose, Massachusetts, by 
Shawmut Association, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts, a reg-
istered bank holding company, there is little meaningful 
present or potential competition between the two banks to 
be eliminated by the proposed consolidation. Accordingly, 
it is felt that the effect on competition would not be 
adverse. 
Unanimous approval also was given to the transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The National Bank of Topton, 
Topton, Pennsylvania, into Peoples Trust City Bank, Reading, Pennsyl-
vania, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is little existing competition between The 
National Bank of Topton and Peoples City Bank, Reading. 
Since either bank could branch de novo into the other's 
area, however, there is some potential for greater com-
petition. The proposal would increase only moderately 
the size of the second largest bank in the Reading area, 
and overall, the competitive effect of the proposed merger 
would be slightly adverse. 
Appointment of consultant. After discussion of the recommenda-
tion contained in a memorandum from the Division of Research and Sta-
tistics dated October 16, 1967, James A. Stephenson, Associate Professor 
at Iowa State University, was appointed as a consultant, with compensa-
tion at the rate of $60 per day for each day worked for the Board plus 
Per diem in lieu of subsistence and transportation in accordance with 
the Board's travel regulations, for the purpose of undertaking a review 
and revision of seasonal adjustment procedures used in tabulating data 
for the Board's statistical series on banking assets and liabilities. 

4263 
11/6/67 
-3-
It was contemplated that Professor Stephenson's services would 
be used for up to 150 days during the remainder of 1967 and over the 
course of calendar 1968, with part of his work to be done in Ames, Iowa, 
periodic trips to Washington envisaged, and about three months to be 
spent at the Board's offices in the summer of 1968. 
The Board's action included authorization of expenditures for 
research assistance to Professor Stephenson and for the use of program-
ming and data processing facilities at Iowa State University, along 
lines described in the October 16 memorandum. 
It was estimated that the total cost of the project would be 
within $20,000. While it appeared that as much as $3,000 of the total 
amount might be expended in the current calendar year, no budget over-
expenditure attributable to Professor Stephenson's appointment was 
anticipated. The remainder of the estimated cost was to be provided 
for in the 1968 budget of the Research Division. 
Testimony on bank credit cards. Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting on October 30, 1967, there had been distributed a draft 
of statement to be presented by Governor Brimmer on behalf of the Board 
on November 8, 1967, before the House Banking and Currency Committee in 
connection with hearings on H.R. 12646, a bill that would prohibit any 
insured bank from issuing a credit card except upon request and unless 
the holder had entered into a written agreement with the bank specifying 
a dollar limit on the amount of credit that could be outstanding. 

4264 
11/6/67 
-4-
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer distributed textual material 
and tabulations reflecting additional work performed by the staff since 
the draft statement was distributed, principally to enable incorporating 
into the testimony data from the October call report. 
After comments by Governor Brimmer on the additional material 
and on the general thrust of the proposed statement, there followed a 
discussion during which members of the Board made several suggestions 
for rephrasing, mainly in the interest of clarification, and called 
attention to certain questions that seemed likely to be asked by Com-
mittee members. 
The concluding part of the draft statement indicated that the 
System was engaged in a study of the implications of bank credit cards 
and check credit plans, that the Board would be glad to share the results 
of the study with the Committee, and that it was believed enactment of 
legislation such as H.R. 12646 at this time would be premature. 
Governor Robertson proposed saying that it was hoped the System 
study would provide a better basis for determining the need for legis-
lation and that it would appear wise to defer any legislation until the 
size, nature, and character of the problem could be further clarified. 
Governor Brimmer said he had been dissuaded, at last week's 
meeting of the System Task Group on Bank Credit Cards, from encouraging 
the Congress to rely too heavily on the study as a foundation piece for 
legislation. 

M i 
f 
O 
11/6/67 
-5-
Governor Robertson then suggested that deferral of legislation 
could be recommended until more experience had been gained by the super-
ior 
'' 
; 
visory agencies and the banking system, and until the Congress had the 
benefit of studies such as the one being made by the System. 
There was general agreement that language along those lines 
would be appropriate. 
It was understood that the draft testimony would be edited to 
take into account the suggestions agreed upon at today's meeting and 
that the statement would then be presented in a final form satisfactory 
A" I 
to Governor Brimmer. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
