FR 609 
Minutes for February 5. 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
I • ' 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
i . 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
~MZ 
Note: No changes from draft minutes except for editorial revisions, 
made at the suggestion of Chairman Burns, in the incomplete paragraph 
beginning at the top of page 5. 

421 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 5, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
. •-. -
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 

422 
2/5/70 
_ 7. 
Messrs. Doyle, Greenspan, Lynch, Noble, and 
Tuttie of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ettin and Fisher of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. McClellan of the Office of the Controller 
Application of Security Pacific International Bank. Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to Security Pacific International Bank, 
New York, New York, approving the issuance of promissory notes with a 
maturity of over one year to the Export-Import Bank. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Applications of First Financial Corporation. Drafts of orders 
and a statement had been distributed reflecting the Board's action on 
January 22, 1970, approving the applications of First Financial Corpo-
ration, Tampa, Florida, to acquire at least 51 per cent of the voting 
shares of The First National Bank in Plant City, Plant City, Florida, 
and not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of The First National 
Bank in Punta Gorda, Punta Gorda, Florida. 
Issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. Copies of 
the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached as 
I^Hs__2-4, and a copy of the transmittal letter to First Financial 
Corporation is attached as Item No. 5. 
Applications of Atlantic Bancorporation and Atlantic National 
l^nk. The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement, as 
drafted for the Board's consideration, reflecting approval on January 13, 
1970, of the applications of Atlantic Bancorporation and The Atlantic 
National Bank of Jacksonville, both of Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire 
80 
w 
cent of the voting shares of Aloma National Bank of Winter Park, 

423 
2/5/70 
_7. 
Winter Park, Florida. Copies of the order and statement, as issued, 
are attached as Items 6 and 7, respectively. 
Environmental Financing Authority. The Bureau of the Budget 
had requested prompt comments on a Treasury draft bill "To establish 
an Environmental Financing Authority to assist in the financing of waste 
treatment facilities . . . " 
Under certain conditions, the Authority 
would purchase the tax-exempt obligations of a State or local entity 
that was unable otherwise to finance the construction of waste treatment 
facilities. The obligations would be purchased by the Authority with 
initial capital acquired by the Treasury and with the proceeds of issuance 
of the Authority's own fully taxable obligations. A Federal guarantee 
was essentially conveyed to the Authority's obligations in that the 
Treasury was authorized to purchase them. The Treasury also would make 
annual payments to the Authority to cover the difference between the 
return on its portfolio and the cost of its own borrowing. 
In a memorandum dated February 3, 1970, the Division of Research 
and Statistics commented on the implications of the draft bill and 
submitted a draft letter to the Bureau of the Budget that would state 
that the Board would raise no objection to the proposed bill but would 
suggest (1) that criteria for extension of the Authority's assistance 
be made more specific and (2) that consideration be given to providing 
a mechanism for management of all agency issues. 
Discussion brought out that the proposal represented one facet 
°f the larger question of control of agency issues and their impact on 

424 
2/5/70 
-4-
the market. Comments were made on procedures understood to be followed 
by the Treasury at present with respect to the timing of agency issues. 
It was the consensus that a substantive position with respect to this 
question would require considerable study, in consultation with other 
parts of the Government. 
Certain suggestions for modifications in the draft letter were 
agreed upon, including a suggestion that it be indicated that analytical 
comments on the proposed legislation would require more time than had 
been allowed. 
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
Economic projection for Joint Economic Committee. The Division 
of Research and Statistics had prepared a memorandum dated February 2, 
1970, in response to the Board's recent request for exploration of the 
question whether it was desirable to continue furnishing to the Joint 
Economic Committee, as had been done last year, a projection for the 
coming year of gross national product and its components and of the 
financial flows consistent with it. After reviewing pertinent considera-
tions, the memorandum concluded with the view that on balance it would 
Probably be advisable to offer a staff projection again this year. 
In discussion it was noted that the Committee was exercising 
a responsibility to advise the Congress on what steps should be taken 
to pursue national economic goals of reasonably stable prices and a grow-
*ng> prosperous economy. Therefore, it could be argued that the Committee 

425 
2/5/70 
_7. 
was entitled to the best possible economic advice, whether in the form 
of projections or not. On the other hand, various Board members expressed 
certain reservations as to the provision of formal statistical projections 
to the Committee. Problems could arise if the Federal Reserve staff 
projection differed in any substantial respect from that of the Council 
of Economic Advisers, or if the public read into the projection an out-
look for monetary policy. Differences of opinion were expressed regarding 
the extent of the risks involved, some members feeling that they might be 
greater this year than last, since there was currently widespread specu-
lation regarding a possible change in monetary policy. 
Certain possible approaches were mentioned as means of cooperating 
reasonably with the Committee and yet minimizing whatever hazards were 
involved from the standpoint of monetary policy, after which it was 
understood that the staff would prepare for the Board's consideration 
several alternative formulations. 
Testimony by Chairman Burns. A draft had been distributed of 
a statement to be given by Chairman Burns before the House Banking and 
Currency Committee on February 7, 1970, with regard to housing problems. 
Chairman Burns requested that detailed comments by members of 
the Board be furnished in writing; he was interested in knowing at the 
present time whether the statement as drafted was broadly representative 
o f the Board's thinking. 

2/5/70 
-6-
After a discussion during which suggestions were made for changes 
in approach and emphasis at various points in the draft, it was under-
stood that the statement would be edited in the light of these comments 
and presented in a final form satisfactory to the Chairman. 
(Note: A 
copy of the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff atten-
dance, it having been agreed, due to the lateness of the hour, to hold 
over for a subsequent meeting two items that had been listed on today's 
agenda. 
Meetings of academic consultants. 
In view of certain questions 
that had arisen concerning Board representation at the periodic meetings 
of the Treasury's academic consultants, it was agreed after discussion 
that Governor Mitchell would talk with Professor Wallich to ascertain 
what problems, if any, were presented from the Treasury standpoint, that 
Governor Mitchell would report back to the Board, and that the Board 
would then decide what pattern of Board member and staff attendance 
would appear^appropriate. 
It was understood that those attending the 
consultants' meetings would thereafter report to the Board if there had 
been developments that seemed important from the Board's point of view. 
With regard to meetings of the Board's academic consultants, 
there was agreement with a suggestion by Chairman Burns that Governor 
Mitchell explore with Professor Bach the possibility of including in 
the panel some representation of business economists, and perhaps a 
labor economist. 
It was the consensus that four meetings a year would 

427 
2/5/70 
_ 7. 
be appropriate, that the meetings might be shortened somewhat, perhaps 
concluding with lunch, and that the Board might be more active in 
advancing suggestions to Professor Bach regarding types of subjects that 
it would be interested in having discussed at the respective meetings. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Memento for former Chairman Martin. 
It had been customary to 
offer each member of the Board going out of office the chair he had 
occupied in the Board Room, bearing his name plate. Governor Robertson 
had learned that former Chairman Martin had no special desire to receive 
his chair, but in response to inquiry Mr. Martin had indicated that 
he would be pleased to have the gavel that he had used in his nineteen 
years as Chairman. 
The Board unanimously approved presenting the gavel to Mr. Martin. 
It was agreed that a replacement gavel would be purchased and inscribed 
with the same language as on the present one, but with a current date, 
and that the old gavel would then be removed and presented to Mr. Martin. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

• .Mi. res 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/5/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL KDKKrSPQNDCHCC 
rn the: doasd 
February 5, 1970 
Security Pacific International Bank, 
2/0 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 22, 1970, 
the Board of Governors grants approval for your Corporation 
to issue and have outstanding in accordance with Section 2 5(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 2.11. A of Regulation K, 
promissory notes payable to the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States with maturities in excess of one year, up to a 
total of $32,000j000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

429 
Item No. 2 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
2/5/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
per cent of the voting shares of The 
^irst National Bank in Plant City, Plant 
City> Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t 0 S e c t i o n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Financial 
Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for 
t h e B o a r d's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 51 per cent 
o f the voting shares of The First National Bank in Plant City, Plant 
City, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
Ejection to approval of the application. 

430 
- 2 - • 
< • 
Notice of receipt of the application Was published in the 
Federal Register ot{ November 13, 1969 (34 Feddiral Register 18203), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
uraer, unl ess such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b y t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th clay of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board on the date of 
the Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

431 
4 
Item No. 3 
UNITED STATES W AMERICA 
2/5/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of not less 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
•Lhe First National Bank in Punta Gorda, 
Punta Gorda, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t 0 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Financial 
Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 
80 
Per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank in Punta 
G°rda, Punta Gorda, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
t h e Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
re<luested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
that the application be given favorable consideration. 

2 -
432 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 30, 1969 (34 Federal Register 15278), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
ments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of 
the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
j 
s aPPr°ved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Sherrill. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board on the date of 
t h e Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD oi? (SOVEkNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN PUNTA GORDA, PUNTA GORDA, FLORIDA, 
AND THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN PLANT CITY, PLANT CITY, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for 
Prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 80 per cent of the 
voting shares of The First National Bank in Punta Gorda, Punta Gorda, 
Florida ("Punta Gorda Bank"), and at least 51 per cent of the voting 
shares of The First National Bank in Plant City, Plant City, Florida 
( Plant City Bank"). Each of the applications has been separately 
considered and is the subject of a separate Board Order. However, 
since certain facts and circumstances are common to both applications, 
A-1 » 
s Statement contains the Board's findings and conclusions with 
A s p e c t to both. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the applications to the Comptroller of the Currency, and 
requested his views and recommendations thereon. The Comptroller's 
views are consistent with approval of the applications. 
433 
Item No. 4 
2/5/70 

434 
Statutory .cdhgiderafcidhjl * Sectioh 3(c) of the Act provides 
1 
' 
i 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisitibri that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisi-
tion, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Florida, which include 8 of 13 Florida-
based bank holding companies, control 39,6 per cent of State deposits,-^ 
Applicant, the sixth largest banking organization, controls 2.3 per cent 
State deposits. 
It directly owns a majority of the shares of The 
First National Bank of Tampa and directly and indirectly owns and controls 
i/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

435 
a majority o£ the shares of Union Security & Investment Company ("US&I")j 
a registered bank holding company which has four subsidiary banks. 
Consummation of the proposed transactions would increase Applicant's 
share of State deposits to 2.4 per cent, but would not otherwise affect 
its position relative to other large banking organizations in the State. 
Punta Gorda Bank ($17.G million deposits) is the only bank in 
Punta Gorda, and is slightly the smaller of two banks in Charlotte County, 
ifcs Primary service area; a larger independent bank ($18.3 million 
deposits) located in Port Charlotte is the only competitor within this 
area, which has a population of 23,000. The closest of Applicant's subsid-
iary banks are located in Tampa, approximately 100 miles north of Punta 
Corda, and no significant competition exists between Punta Gorda Bank 
ar*d any of the present subsidiaries. 
Plant City Bank ($17.7 million deposits) is the smaller of 
tV?° indePendent banks serving Plant City, and the eleventh largest of 
2 4 b a n k s x°cated in Hillsborough County. Applicant has three subsidiaries 
i n Hillsborough County, all of which are located in Tampa, 20 miles west 
o f Plant City. Of the three, only Applicant's largest subsidiary derives 
a n y business from Plant City, the primary service area of Plant City Bank, 
Ih 
3 t business, which is insignificant in amount and wholesale in nature, 
do£s n f* 
not appear indicative of present or possible future competition be-
t W e° n t h a t b a n k and Plant City Bank. Applicant's closest subsidiary is 
located i n Lakeland, Polk County, 13 miles east of Plant City, and derives 
significant business from the Plant City area. Plant City Bank derives 

436 
less than 5 per cent of its deposits and loans from the Lakeland and 
Tampa areas. Because of the presence of intervening banks in the areas 
between Plant City and Applicant's present subsidiaries, the distances 
involved, and the fact that branching is prohibited under Florida law, 
consummation of the acquisition would neither eliminate existing com-
petition nor foreclose significant potential competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposals would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is a registered bank holding company, recently formed pursuant 
2/ 
t o Board approval 
in order to effect a technical reorganization of a 
previously existing relationship among The First National Bank of Tampa, 
US&I, and the latter's subsidiary banks. Applicant has indicated its 
intention to provide additional capital for three of its present sub-
sidiaries, as well as for Plant City Bank in the event that the appli-
tion relating to that bank is approved. In the light of the proposed 
capital improvements, the banking factors, as they relate to Applicant 
and its present subsidiary banks, are regarded as consistent with 
approval of the present applications. 
2/ 1969 Federal Reserve Bulletin 280. 

437 
.5-
The financial condition and management of Punta Gorda Bank are 
satisfactory, and its prospects appear favorable* The bank is located 
in a rapid growth area, and it appears likely that periodic increases in 
capital will be necessary to meet anticipated growth in the bank's de-
posits; affiliation with Applicant should facilitate the raising of 
such additional capital, as needed. 
The capital of Plant City Bank is marginal, and the bank has 
some asset weakness as well. The chief executive officer of the bank 
recently resigned, and operating management is currently being provided 
by Applicant's organization. In view of Applicant's earlier-mentioned 
proposal to supplement the bank's capital and its ability to continue 
to provide effective management, affiliation with Applicant v;ould sig-
nificantly improve the prospects of Plant City Bank. 
Considerations regarding the banking factors lend some weight 
in support of the Punta Gorda application and weigh heavily in favor of 
approval of the Plant City application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
of the proposed acquisitions would not significantly affect the con-
venience or needs of the communities served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries, 
It appears that most of the banking services required by the 
communities served by the proposed subsidiary banks are presently being 
provided by banks located there. However, trust services are not 
presently offered by any bank in Plant City or in Charlotte County, and 

438 
I it appears likely that there is some demand for such services in both 
areas. In the event the proposed acquisitions are consummated, Applicant 
would make such services available in both areas, through the facilities 
of its lead bank. 
The providing of capable management to Plant City Bank should 
considerably improve the quality of services offered by that bank, and 
the ability of both banks to serve their communities should be enhanced 
by the counsel which Applicant could provide in various areas of service. 
Their ability to meet demands for larger credits would be increased by 
the greater facility of arranging participations with Applicant's other 
subsidiaries, and data processing services available from Applicant 
would permit efficiencies of indirect benefit to their customers. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved weigh in favor of approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transactions would be in the public interest and that the applications 
should be approved. 
February 5, 1970 

439 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 5 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055! 
2/5/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
February 5, 1970. 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN" RECEIPT REQUESTED 
First Financial Corporation, 
416 Franklin Street, 
Tampa, Florida. 33602 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the applications of First Financial Corporation for per-
mission to acquire at least 51 per cent of the voting shares of 
The First National Bank in Plant City, Plant City, and not less 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank 
in Punta Gorda, Punta Gorda, both in Florida. 
Enclosed are the Board's Orders, together with the 
accompanying Statement and the press release on this action. 
Your attention is called to the fact that the Board, 
in approving both applications, gave considerable weight to your 
organization's assurances regarding improvement in the capital 
accounts of your present and proposed subsidiary banks, as ex-
pressed in your November 25, 1969 letter to Mr. R. M. Stephenson 
of the Atlanta Reserve Bank. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Orders 
relating to the time within which the acquisitions herein approved 
are to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should 
be given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
- 
"s 
Ke nne th A< Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

440 
Item No. 6 
2/5/70 
UNITED- STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Applications of 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION and THE 
ATLANTIC NATIONAL BANK OF JACKSONVILLE, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of not less 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Aloma National Bank of Winter Park, Winter 
Park, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATIONS UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the applications of Atlantic 
Bancorporation and The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, 
k°th of Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of 
acquisition of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Aloma National Bank of Winter Park, Winter Park, Florida. 
As required by section 3 (b.) of the Act, the Board gave written 
Notice of receipt of the applications to the Comptroller of the Currency 

441 
- 2 -
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the applications. 
Notice of receipt of the applications was published in the 
Federal Register on November 25, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18334), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. Copies of the applications were 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby are approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D, C. this 5th day of February 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Daane. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board on the date 
of the Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
ICenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

442 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION AND THE ATLANTIC NATIONAL BANK 
OF JACKSONVILLE, BOTH OF JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
ALOMA NATIONAL BANK OF WINTER PARK, 
WINTER PARK, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
t 
Atlantic Bancorporation ("Atlantic") and The Atlantic National 
Bank of Jacksonville ("Atlantic National Bank"), both of which are 
registered bank holding companies located in Jacksonville, Florida, have 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. lJ42(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of not less than 30 per cent of the voting 
shares of Aloma National Bank of Winter Park, Winter Park, Florida ("Bank"). 
Atlantic is a bank holding company by virtue of its control of Atlantic 
National Bank and 12 other banks. Atlantic National Bank is also a bank 
holding company because it owns more than 25 per cent of the voting shares 
Atlantic, and thereby has indirect control of Atlantic's subsidiary banks. 
The proposed acquisition would be directly made by Atlantic. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
r®quired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applications 
was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommendation 
Item No. 7 
2/5/70 

- 2 -
443 
were requested. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be sarvcsu, In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the ban'.; 
hold ing company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Atlantic 
controls 13 banks with total deposits of $541 million, representing 
4.6 per cent of the total bank deposits in the State of Florida.1/ It is 
the fourth largest bank holding company and banking organization in the 
State. Upon acquisition of Bank ($9.7 million deposits)., Atlantic's 
i/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect holding 
qny 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 

- 3 
444 
relative position among holding companies and banking organizations in 
the State would remain unchanged, and its share of State deposits would 
increase to 4.7 per cent. 
Bank's only office is located in Winter Park, Orange County, 
Florida, a suburb of Orlando. Bank is the sixteenth largest of 20 banks 
in the county and controls 1.5 per cent of county deposits. Bank's 
primary service area (population 75,000) is comprised of Winter Park, 
the northern portion of Orlando, and a small portion of southern Seminole 
County. Bank is the seventh largest of eight banks within this area, 
controlling only 4.6 per cent of the area's deposits. 
Atlantic has no subsidiary within Orange County; the closest 
subsidiary is located approximately seventeen miles north in Seminole 
County, There is no overlap in the areas from which the subsidiary and 
Bank derive business, and none appears likely to develop, due to the 
rural area separating the two, the existence of intervening banks, and 
the fact that Florida law prohibits branch banking. 
Six o£ the 20 banks in Orange County are subsidiaries of the 
County's largest banking organization, a bank holding company whose 
subsidiaries control 42 per cent of county deposits. Atlantic's entry 
into competition in the county through acquisition of one of the area's 
smallest banks (Bank holds 1.5 per cent of total county deposits) should 
serve to increase competition and, by providing an alternative source of 
full banking services, facilitate deconcentration of the area's banking 
resources. 

445 
- 4 -
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Atlantic and its subsidiary banks are in satisfactory financial condition, 
with capable management and favorable prospects. 
The prospects of Bank also appear favorable. Its management is 
capable and its financial condition satisfactory. 
On the basis of the foregoing, considerations relating to the 
banking factors are regarded as consistent with approval of the applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
of the proposed transaction will have no effect on customers of Atlantic's 
present subsidiaries. 
It appears that the banking needs of the public in both Orange 
County and Bank's service area are being adequately served at the present 
time. The primary benefits likely to result from the acquisition would 
be an enhancement of Bank's ability to arrange participations to finance 
large commercial transactions in the rapidly growing area, and an upgrading 
of the quality and efficiency of present services. Improvements in Bank's 
service offering should result from Atlantic's proposal to provide Bank 
with counseling in accounting and te:: matters, investments, credits and 
operations. 

446 
J 
- 4 -
These considerations weigh in favor of approval of the 
applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the applications 
should be approved. 
Attachments 

447 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H K 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
2/5/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
?.0r»51 
A D D R E S S 
D F f i C I A I . 
C D R R n S P O N O E N C E 
I D I K E 
BOARD 
February 5, 1970. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rourael, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Refcrence, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
Your office has requested the views of the Board of Governors 
on a Treasury Depar".merit draft: bill "To establish an Environmental 
Financial Authority to assist in the financing of waste treatment: 
facilities, and for other purposes." 
The Board raises no objection to the draft bill. However, 
it should be noted that: the Board has had very little opportunity to 
study the proposed legislation. If there is sufficient leeway, the 
Board would, if requested, be glad to submit at a later date such 
further comments as might appear pertinent. 
The Board does suggest that Section 5(b) set forth more 
explicitly the criteria to be used for determining which State and 
local governments can sell their obligations to the proposed Environ-
mental Financing Authority. Specific references to inability to obtain 
bids from underwriters, cr constitutional rate limitations, or even 
emphasis on low-rated, smaller issues might be included in Section 5(b). 
Although we understand that you are estimating only about 
$400 million a year of financing by this new Authority, the Board 
would like to suggest that the recent and projected rise of Agency 
issues raises significant questions for financial markets and resource 
allocation. It might be useful to consider a mechanism for management: 
of all Agency issues, taking explicit, consideration of financial markets 
and real resource demands at the time of issuance. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C, Holland, 
Secretary. 
