MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 5, 1972 

276S 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 5, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman If 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Guinter, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Manistee Bank & Trust Co., Manistee, Michigan,to issue 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2767 
10/5/72 
-2-
capital notes. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chase Manhat-
tan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
a financial institution to be established in Djakarta, Indonesia, 
and to continue to hold those shares after the institution issues 
certain debt obligations. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of September 29, 1972, the 
Board unanimously approved a revision of the Loss Sharing Agreement 
of the Federal Reserve Banks that had been approved by the Conference 
°f Presidents on September 6, 1972. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Federal Reserve Banks pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 3. 
Pursuant to recommendations by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations, with which the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans expressed concurrence in memoranda of October 3 and 
1972, the Board unanimously approved exemption from the employment 
ceiling of additional employee positions in connection with new proce-
dures in food stamp activity at the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 
Dallas, and San Francisco. Copies of the telegrams sent to those 
Reserve Banks are attached as Items 4-13. 

2763 
10/5/72 
-3-
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, with which the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans expressed concurrence in a memorandum 
of October 4, 1972, the Board unanimously approved exemption from the 
employment ceiling of additional employee positions at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas to implement the Eleventh District Communi-
cations System. A copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve Bank is 
attached as Item No. 14. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Unionization policy. In July 1971 the System's Labor Relations 
Panel recommended the addition to the Policy on Unionization and Collec-
tive Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks of a sub-paragraph dealing 
with an objections to election procedure. In March 1972 the Panel 
proposed an amended provision and an accompanying Code of Pre-election 
Conduct and Rulings and Regulations Pertaining to Pre-election Conduct. 
The Federal Reserve Banks expressed strenuous objections to the code, 
on the principal ground that they would be better able to handle pre-
election conduct problems without the constraints of an established 
code. They preferred to deal with such problems in the light of deci-
sions by the National Labor Relations Board and the courts on the subject 
of pre-election conduct in the private sector. 
In a memorandum of October 4, 1972, Mr. O'Connell recommended, 
on behalf of himself and the System's Labor Relations Panel, that the 

2763 
10/5/72 
-4-
Board approve the addition to its Policy on Unionization of the provi-
sion relating to objections to election procedure. It was expected 
that upon such approval the Panel would issue a statement regarding 
its position with respect to the provision. The statement, a copy 
°f which was attached to the memorandum, included the following 
Passages: "Non-issuance of a Code at this time is not to be construed 
as a decision by the Panel to withdraw from or alter the so-called 
'in-between' position that was the central thesis of the proposed Code. 
Consistent with the unique position of Federal Reserve Banks within a 
Private sector-public sector spectrum, rulings by the NLRB and the courts 
under the provisions of the NLRA (Section 9) will provide general guid-
ance for minimum standards of conduct. Greater restraint, however, in 
the exercise of free speech by a Reserve Bank than may be mandated by 
the NLRA will be expected. On the other hand, the general practice 
°f strict neutrality exercised in the public sector will not be required." 
Governor Brimmer stated that he regarded the proposed stance 
as leaning toward the rules of the private sector, whereas he would 
have preferred that it lean toward the Federal Government sector. Also, 
he regretted the failure to establish a code for pre-election procedures. 
However, he would defer to the members of the Panel, who had spent a 
great deal of effort on the problem. The ensuing discussion reflected 
an expectation on the part of other members of the Board that a code 
could best evolve from a case-by-case approach. 

2770 
10/5/72 
-5-
The proposed amendment to the Policy on Unionization was 
approved unanimously, effective November 20, 1972. A copy of the 
notice published in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 15. 
A copy of the statement issued by the Panel is attached as Item No. 16. 
The Board also approved unanimously a change in the composi-
tion of the System's Labor Relations Panel from Mr. William E. Simkin, 
Chairman, with Governors Daane and Bucher as members, to Mr. Simkin, 
Chairman, with Governors Daane and Mitchell as members. 
First National City. In a memorandum of September 18, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First National City Corporation, New York, New York, 
to purchase shares of Citicorp International Bank Limited, London, 
England, and to retain the shares after the latter organization acquires 
a nominee company. 
In a memorandum of October 4, 1972, Mr. Leavitt commented on 
the capital position of First National City Bank of New York, the 
Principal subsidiary of First National City Corporation. From the 
beginning of 1969 until mid-1972, a $10 billion increase in total 
assets, including $7 billion in loans, had been accompanied by only 
a $140 million increase in capital and reserves. A table of capital 
ratios for the 10 largest banks in New York City indicated that First 
National City Bank ranked unfavorably in all ratios and was regarded 

277 
10/5/72 
-6-
as the most weakly capitalized. The memorandum also commented on the 
capital improvement program that First National City Bank had agreed 
to after discussions with the Comptroller of the Currency. The bank 
was undertaking studies of the possible need for additional capital 
raising measures. 
Discussion at today's meeting included the observation that 
even though the Comptroller of the Currency was the primary supervisor 
of First National City Bank, the Board had responsibilities in connec-
tion with the bank's overseas operations, which operations were 
substantial and were being constantly expanded; the Board also had 
responsibilities in connection with the ownership of the bank by a 
holding company. 
The predominant view among members of the Board was that the 
capital improvement program to which the bank was committed was inadequat 
It was understood that low capital ratios were a deliberate choice of 
an aggressive management. Comments were made on the bank's handling 
°f its capital accounts in relation to its parent holding company, and 
on the special need for a strong capital position to buffer the rela-
tively high risk of the expanding foreign operations. 
Some sentiment was expressed in favor of withholding approval 
°f the present application until the bank committed itself to stronger 
capital improvement; the view was expressed that at some point the 
capital question must be pressed as a condition to foreign expansion. 

2772 
10/5/72 
-7-
However, there was agreement that at present capital improvement 
negotiations should be undertaken without resorting to withholding 
of approval. 
It was brought out that the principal officer of First 
National City Bank had requested a conference with Chairman Burns 
to discuss the bank's capital problem, and the structure appropriate 
for such a conference was discussed. There was agreement with a sugges-
tion by Governor Brimmer that the bank be apprised in a letter of the 
Board's view that additional capital improvement was needed. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the application of First 
National City Corporation was approved unanimously, as well as the 
sending of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 17. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
U.N. Bancshares. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of U.N. Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, Missouri, to acquire shares 
of Pulaski County Bank, Richland, Missouri. It was understood that an 
order reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's consid-
eration. 
First City Bancorporation of Texas. Today's agenda called 
for consideration of the applications of First City Bancorporation 
of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of four Texas banks, 

10/5/72 
-8-
which had been the subject of a memorandum of September 20, 1972, 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation. However, members 
of the Board requested further analysis of questions relating to 
deposit structure, control, locations of unaffiliated banks, and 
whether or not the proposed transactions represented merely a struc 
tural reorganization. Action was therefore deferred. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F G D V E i R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
O F T H C 
Item No„ 1 
10/5/72 
WASHINGTON, 
f). C. 20S5i 
'^nscss urnniAi. ci^sespundf.nce 
T O T H i : 
o n A f j y 
October 5, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Manistee Bank & Trust Co. 
Man!stee, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $700,000 
in subordinated, convertible capital notes by Manistee Bank 6c Trust 
Co., Manistee, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. This approval is given on the condition that the 
capital notes cannot be ca?led fox redemption prior to maturity with-
out the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted 
with th« understanding that the sale of these capital noles will he 
consummated within six-months from the date of this letter. It is 
further understood that any advertising with respect .to the obliga-
tions will, in addition to being in compliance with the provisions 
of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of 
the obligation, from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold _ 
face type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A.- Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

e 
% i 
w 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
VMSHINGTON, 
F3. C. 
P.Of.iil 
Item No. 2 
10/5/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C i j R R E E " O N D E M C i 
to the: board 
October 5, 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan PIasa 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 12, 197?., the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("C.MOBC") to purchase 
and hold 50 per cent of the shares of a financial institution ("FI") 
to be located in Djakarta, Indonesia, at a cost of approximately 
$370,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent tc the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FT. by CMOPC is granted subject to r.Le following conditions*. 
(1) That CM03C shall not hold, directJy or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FI if FI at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FI establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Indonesia or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CM0BC; 
(2) That, when required by uhe Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Beard with such reports regarding 
the activities of FI as it may require from time to 
t inie; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FI 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FI were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

27 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and rev lev;, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for FX to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent to 
such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the 
prior consent of the. Board for the continued holding of shares of FX 
should FX acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of 
$500,000 or representing 2 5 per cent of the voting shares of any 
company, except in the case of underwriting operations covered by 
firm commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers. With 
respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are prohibited 
from investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further 
conditioned on the fact that FX will acquire such shares only as 
dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of inventory 
that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares 
within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report: re-
quested by the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FX. 
The Board also grants consent for CM0BC to continue to hold 
the shares of FX after FX issues and has outstanding at a given time 
debt obligations with a maturity in excess of one year in a total 
amount not to exceed 15 times FI's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank National Association 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

.-^oVcoV'-
m 
' 
1 
h 
- v - r ^ . 
-f^LMi^;-' 
2777 
B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF" T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/5/72 
AOCHC5S OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THlf UOARO 
October 5, 1972 
The Board has approved the proposed new Loss Sharing 
Agreement,, as adopted at the meeting of the Conference of. 
Presidents on September 6, 1972. 
Printed copies of the revised new Agreement are 
enclc&ed* After executed copies have been received back from 
all Federal Reserve Banks, the Board will notify your Bank by 
telegram and, as provided in Section 17, the new Agreement vill 
become effective an of the date of such notice. 
Very truly yours, 
rf 
f 
: 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Enclosures - 2 
y.O TIE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

T E L E G R A M 
I t e m N o # 
4 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
10/5/72 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5> 1972 
MORRIS - BOSTON 
The Board has approved the three additional employee positions requested 
for exemption in Mr. Latham's letter dated August TO, 19725 in order to 
comply with new procedures .in the Food Stamp activity* 
Accordingly, 
Boston is authorised a December 31, 1972, manpower level of 1,493 
full-time positions, 
± 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

2779 
T E L E G R A M 
I t e m N o- 5 
10/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972. 
HAYES - NEW YORK 
The Board has approved the eight additional employee positions requested 
for exemption at Urn Buffalo Branch in 'Mr. Kaclnnes1 letter dated 
August 18, 1972, in order tc comply with new procedures in the Food 
Stamp activity, 
(Signed) Michael"A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

2780 
T E L E 
G R A M 
I t e m N o- 6 
10/5/72 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
WINN - CLEVELAND 
The Board has approved the twelve additional employee positions 
requested for exempt.ion in your letter dated September 26. 1972., in 
order to comply with new procedures in the Food Stamp activity. 
Accordingly, the Cleveland District is authorized a December 31, 1972 
manpower level of 1,395 full-time positions, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREEKSPAN 

t i- , r 
r-v / .1 
Item No. 7 
L 
L 
b 
R 
A 
M 
10/5/72 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATION'S SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 19 72 
J1EFLIN - RICHMOND 
The Board has approved the 2.0 additional employee positions requested 
for exemption in your letter dated August 16, 1972, and in Kr. ' J. Allin's 
September 15 taXophoro oa? 1, in order to comply wi trh new procedures in 
the Food Stamp activity. 
Accordingly, the Richmond District is 
authorised a December 31, 1972, manpower' level of 1,845 full-time posi-
tions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

T E L, E G R A M 
Item Mo 
10/5/72 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHING) ON 
October 5, 1972 
KIMBREL - ATLANTA 
. - 
" ~ __ 
The. Board has approved the 28 additional employee positions requested 
for exemption in your letter dated August 31 > 1972. in order to comply 
with nev procedures in the Food Stamp activity. Accordingly, the 
Atlanta District is authorized a December 31, 1972, manpower level ol 
2,155 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

278 
T E L E G R A M 
i t e m No. 9 
10/5/72 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
MAYO - CHICAGO 
The Boaid has approved the three additional employee positions 
requested for exemption at the. Head Office in Mr. Johnson's letter 
dated August IS, 1972, in order to comply villi new procedures in the 
Food Stamp activity. Accordingly, the Chicago District is authorised 
a December 31, 1972, manpower level of 2,992 full-time, positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

2784 
T B L E G R A M 
Item No. 10 
10/5/7 2 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
i 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
FRANCIS 
- 
s r . 
LOTJIS 
The Board has approved the two additional employee positions requested 
for exemption at the Louisville Branch in Mr, Silva's letter dated 
August 18j 1 972, in order to comply wich new procedures in the. rood 
Stamp activity. Accordingly, the St. Louis District is authorized a 
December 31, 1972, manpower level of 1,448 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan -
GREENSFAN 
/ 

2785 
T E L E G E A M 
Item No. 11 
10/5/72 
F E D E R A L RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
MOLAUBY - MINNEAPOLIS 
•ne Board has approved the three additional employee positions requested 
for exemption at the Head Office in Mr. Fernelius' letter dated 
August 24, 1972, ir. order to comply \7.ith new procedures in the Food 
St a Kip activity. Accordingly, the Minneapolis District is authorized 
a December 31. 1972, manpower level of 843 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

2788 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 12 
10/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OK GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
COT,DWELL - DALLAS 
The Board has approved the seven additjonal "employee positions requested 
Tor exemption in your letter dated August 18, 1972, in order to comply 
with new procedures in the Food Stamp activity. Accordingly, the 
Dallas District is authorized a December 31, 1972, manpower level of 
1,267 f u 11 -1 -J m e p o s i t i on s. 
(Signed) Michael A." Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

2787 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No. 13 
10/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
MF.RRITT - SAN FRANCISCO 
- x 
Tlie Board has approved the seven additional employee positions requested 
for exemption in Nr. DeVries* letter dated August 28, 1972, in order to 
comply with new procedures- in the Food Stamp activity. 
Accordingly, 
the San Francisco District Is authorized & December 33, 1972. manpower 
level of 3,833 full-time positions. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

T 
E 
L 
E 
G R 
A 
M 
I T E M 
N O , 
10/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
/ - » / ' * 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 5, 1972 
COX "DWELL - DALLAS 
Hie Board has approved the six - additional employee positions 
requested for exemption in your letter dated Kepuember 14 „ 1^/2, 
in order to implement the Eleventh District Communications System. 
The approval oJ: these six positions and the seven positions in the 
food Stamp activity authorizes the Dallas District a December 31, 
1972, manpower level of 1,273 full-time positions, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

'<39 
Item No. 15 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
10/5/72 
CHAPTER II-- FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 269—POLICY ON UNIONIZATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 
FOR THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Objeetions to Election Procedure 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Register of November 4, 1971 (36 F.R. 21212), which revised an earlier 
proposal published August 6, 1971 (36 F.R. 14479), the Board of 
Governors proposed to amend Part 269, "Policy on Unionization, and 
Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks". As indicated in 
its proposal, the purpose of the amendment is (1) to protect employees 
from any interference with their making a fair and free choice in 
selecting or rejecting a bargaining representative even if such inter-
ference docs not constitute an unfair labor practice within the meaning 
of § 269.6-and (2) to authorize the Federal Reserve System Labor 
Relations Panel to establish an expedited procedure for processing charges 
of interference, to promulgate rules to guide the conduct of all parties, 
end to provide appropriate remedies when interference has been found to 
have affected the outcome o£ the election. 
Following consideration of the comments received the Board has 
determined that adoption of the proposed amendments would be in the best 
interests of the labor organizations, the Federal Reserve Bank employees, 
and Federal Reserve Bank management. 
To implement its decision, the Board has amended 5 269.5 by 
adding paragraph (f) to read as follows: 

2790 
- 2 -
§ 269.5 Elect:ions 
•k • 
* 
* 
(f)(1) If at. any time prior to an election, an appreciable 
number of employees evidence substantial interest in representation 
by one or more labor organizations, whether or not a 30 per cent 
..nterest has yet been shown, it shall be incumbent on the Bank, labor 
organizations, and all others to refrain from any conduct, action or 
policy that interferes with or restrains employees from making a fair 
and free choice in selecting or rejecting a bargaining representative 
(2) A Bank, labor organizations, or employees are not 
precluded from exercise of the free speech privileges of 5 269.6(c) 
but such exercise may properly be held to be contrary to the intent 
of this section even if the conduct, action or policy in question 
does not constitute an unfair labor practice under § 269.6(a), (1), 
(2) or (3)'or § 269.6(b) (1) or (2) of this Policy. 
(3) The Panel may promulgate expedited procedures for 
prompt disposition of allegations that a violation of this section 
has affected the outcome of the election. 
(4) The Panel may determine whether there has been a 
violation of this section, may render appropriate interpretations of 
this section, and may set forth as guidelines the circumstances the 
Panel believes necessary for a fair and free election by a Code of 
Preelection Conduct or by decision in specific cases. 

2791 
"3-
(5) In l.he event: of a proven violation of this section by a 
Bank, by labor* organizations, or by other individuals or organizations, 
found sufficient: to affect the outcome of an election, the Panel may 
take appropriate remedial action such as the setting aside of the 
results of an election and the ordering of a new election: Provided, 
however, that the Panel may not require a Bank to recognize a labor-
organization without an election unless the violation is found to be 
an unfair labor practice under § 269.6 that would make a free election 
\ 
unlikely. 
Effective date: November 20, 1972. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 
5, 1972. 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith-
Secretary of the Board 

2792 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 16 
10/5/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
LABOR RELATIONS PAUEL 
Statement Regarding Amendment to § 269.5--Elec tions , 
T>o.l.icv on Unionization and 
Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks 
This'Statement relates to action of this date by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System in amending the "Policy on 
Unionization and Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks1' 
by adding a new subsection [published elsewhere in this issue of the 
Federal Register] relating to "Objections to Election Procedure" covering 
applicable standards of conduct once it has been shown that.an.ap-
preciable number of employees at any Reserve Bank are interested in 
labor organization representation. 
Under dates of August 6, 1971, and November 
1971, three 
documents were published in the Federal Register: 
(1) a proposed 
amendment to the Policy, (2) a proposed Code of Preelection Conduct, 
and (3) proposed Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Preelection Con-
duct. The amendment would require action by the Board of Governors. 
Hie other two documents were proposed by die Panel. 
Subsequent to both the first and second publications in the 
Federal Register, extensive comments were submitted by Banks, by a 
subcommittee to the System Committee on Management Personnel, and by 
unions. 
After careful consideration by the Panel of the comments re-
ceived following publication for comment of the proposed Policy amendment, 
wkmmd 

2733 
-2-
the panel has decided not to issue at this time either a Code of ,Pre-
election Conduct or Rules and Regulations pertaining to Preelection 
Conduc t:. 
The basic reason for this decision is that the proposed Code 
dealt in large part with hypothetical situations. On further reflection, 
it is our conclusion that a general statement, supported if necessary by 
decisions in specific cases, will be a preferable method for implementa-
tion of the Amendment. While we had hoped that a Code would provide 
helpful guidance, we now believe that a case-by-ease approach will be 
preferable, at least until enough experience has been obtained, to make 
a Code more directly relevant. 
Non-issuance of a Code at this time is not to be construed as 
a decision by the panel to withdraw from or alter the so-called "in-
between1' position that was the central thesis of the proposed Code. 
Consistent with the unique position of Federal Reserve Banks 
within a private sec tor-public sector spectrum, rulings by the KLRB and 
the courts under the provisions of the NLRA (Section 9) will provide 
general guidance for minimum standards of conduct. Greater restraint, 
however, in the exercise of free speech by a Reserve Bank than may be 
mandated by the NLRA will be expected. On the other hand, the general 
practice of strict neutrality exercised in the public sector will not 
be required. 
The Panel's unanimous July 19, 1971, Opinion and Decision in 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and Professional, Office and 
Industrial Union, I5EBA (AFL-CIO) case may be examined for further 

2V-
exposition of the so-called "in-between" position, noted in the above 
paragraph. Moreover, that Opinion and Decision discusses a number of 
very specific matters, relevant to that case, that might conceivably 
arise elsewhere. The Panel will adhere to those findings in other 
situations if the "facts should be comparable. 
As respects hypothetical questions that might arise, not 
covered directly by the San Francisco case, the Panel will expect Federal 
Reserve Banks and labor organizations to adhere to the spirit and intent 
of the "in-between" position by exercise of common sense and good will. 
As noted earlier, and as empowered by the amendment, the panel"will 
decide such questions in future cases if the need arises. If a Code of 
Preelection Conduct should be needed, it will be promulgated on the 
basis of additional experience. 
As respects Rules and Regulations Pertaining to Preelection 
Conduct, the Panel likewise concludes that no detailed procedures are 
needed at this time. If either a labor organization or a Federal Reserve 
Bank believes that there has been a violation of the Amendment, prompt 
notice can be given to the Panel. After consultation with the parties, 
the Panel will develop procedures appropriate to the circumstances. 
1 / 
By order of the Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel, 
October 3, 1972 
\ : S///. Zzh q±L 
> 
Paul. M / Me tzger" 
V 
Secretary 
'// 
1 r'Votinp, for "this action: Chairman Sunk in and Governors Daane ?md 
Mitchell. 

273; 
m 
• 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 17 
10/5/72 
A ' l O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R K E S P C N O E N C t 
T O 
T H t : 
B D A f O 
October 6, 1972 
• First National City Corporation 
39f Park Avenue 
Nev, York j New York 10022 
' 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 9, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of .1956, as amended, 
and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your Corporation, ("FNCC"), 
to purchase and hold all of the shares of Citicorp International Bank 
Limited, ("CIBL"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
$5,200,000, provided half, of such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under Sec-
tion 4(c)(13), CIBL shall confine its activities to international or 
foreign banking and other international or foreign financial operations. 
You have requested consent for CIBL to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent to such 
activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior 
consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares of CIBL should 
CIBL acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 
or representing 25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except 
in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments frcm 
subundervriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in securi-
ties in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the pro-
visions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that CIBL 
will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size 
and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, anc-. 
dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported, under Section 225.6(f)(4) of Regulation Y. However, Lh-y are ^ 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, 
on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 

First National City Corporation 
2736 
Your application indicated that it is FNCC's view that 
loans by First National City Bank, ("FNCB"), to CIBL would be exempt 
from the requirements of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act and 
that FNCC intends to submit a brief to that effect to the Board. 
It is the preliminary ruling of the Board that the restrictions of 
paragraphs 1 and 2. of Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act would 
apply to loans by FNCB or other affiliated United States banks to 
CI.BL and this consent is granted on the condition that, until a final 
ruling is made, credit extensions to CIBL by affiliated United States 
banks will conform to the requirements of paragraphs 1 and 2 of Sec-
tion 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board of Governors also grants consept for FNCC to 
purchase and hold indirectly all of the shares pf,a nominee company 
to be formed in England. This consent is granted-'on the condition" 
that the nominee company shall restrict its activities to holding 
securities or properties for the custody of others. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that 
the investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affil-
iates . 
In connection with its consideration of this application, 
the Board reviewed the capital position of First National City Bank 
I n relation to the structure and operations of your bank holding 
company. The Board is of the view that additional equity capital is 
needed in the bank to reinforce the bank's present position which 
has substantially deteriorated in recent years, to support the in-
creasing risk position of the bank, and to insure its future access 
to the money markets. In approving this application the Board relied 
upon verbal commitments of senior officers that First National City 
Rank would pay no dividends to its parent holding company in 1972 
and 1973 and that First National City Corporation would inject $100 mil-
lion of equity into the bank in 1972. The Board feels that, in view 
continued growth prospects of First National City Bank, these 
capital additions, even though very substantial, are less than are 
needed to raise First National City Bank's equity capital to an 
appropriate level. The Board thus urges the bank and its parent 
holding company to review most carefully the capital needs'of the 
°ank with the view toward injecting additional ecrnlty funds at an 
*arly date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
