Minutes for January 19, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 3 Amendments to Regulation Z, 
Truth in Lending, relating to 
credit cards. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indicate approval of the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
N°te: No changes from draft minutes. 

124: 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 19, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
c 

1/19/71 
-12-
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby and Mrs. Semia, of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Holding company applications. After review of relevant docu-
mentation, the Board unanimously approved the following applications 
and authorized the issuance of orders and statements reflecting these 
decisions: 
New Mexico Bancorporation, Inc., Santa Fe, New Mexico to become 
a bank holding company through acquiring shares of The First 
National Bank of Santa Fe, Santa Fe, New Mexico, and First State 
Bank of Taos, Taos, New Mexico (order and statement attached 
under Item No. 1); and 
Consolidated Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company through acquiring shares of the 
following banks in Florida: Security First National Bank of Plan-
tation (a proposed new bank); First National Bank in Fort Lauder-
dale; Plantation First National Bank; Guaranty First National Bank 
of Fort Lauderdale; and Ocean First National Bank of Fort Lauderdale 
(order and statement attached under Item No. 2). 
Foreign investments. The Board unanimously approved the follow-
ing 1 etters, copies of which are attached as indicated: 
Item No. 
letter to Marine Midland International Corpo- 
3 
ration, New York, New York, granting consent 
t o continue to hold the shares of Marine Midland 
Overseas Corporation after the latter acquires, 
directly or indirectly, stock of Marine Midland 
Investment Fund, S.A., Luxembourg. 
c 

m 
Spfjs* 
12G 
1/19/71 
-3-
• i C 
; 
Item No 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
4 
New York, granting consent to continue to hold 
the shares of International Trust Company, Montreal, 
Canada, after the latter acquires additional stock 
of Andreae Equity Investment Fund Ltd., Toronto, 
Canada. 
;s . 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
5 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to the purchase of the shares of National City 
Financial Services, Inc., San Juan, Puerto Rico. 
Governor Daane joined the meeting at this point. 
Amendments to Regulation Z. In November 1970 the Board published 
for comment proposed amendments to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, to 
implement an amendment to the Truth in Lending Act that restricted the 
issuance of unsolicited credit cards and in general limited cardholder 
liability for unauthorized use to $50. In a memorandum dated January 18, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended adoption of 
the amendments, with certain modifications in the light of comments 
received. 
141 
One of the principal changes from the original proposal was in 
the definition of "credit card." Instead of using the statutory defl-
ation almost intact, it was now proposed to define the term more precisely 
in order to exclude forms of credit instruments that the staff believed 
Were not intended to be subject to the Act's requirements. Among other 
changes, it was now provided that a retailer or a bank that bought a 
retailer's accounts receivable would not be permitted to send present 
; 5
£ 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
account holders credit cards unless such cards were requested or had 
been previously issued by the retailer; and a requirement that creditor 
records be retained for two years had been deleted. 
Question was raised whether, as a policy decision, the law might 
be construed to allow the sending of credit cards to account holders on 
the ground that the existence of the account constituted an implied 
request for the card in order to continue credit privileges. This would 
seem to serve the convenience of the customer. 
Staff cited the law: "No credit card shall be issued except in 
response to a request or application therefor. This prohibition does 
not apply to the issuance of a credit card in renewal of, or in substitu-
tion for, an accepted credit card." It was the staff's view that to 
Permit the sending of cards to account holders, except upon request, would 
amount to stretching the language of the law. 
Governors Mitchell and Maisel indicated that in the circumstances 
fchey would go along with the staff view, although as a matter of policy 
they would have preferred to take a different position. Governor Sherrill, 
who also would have favored allowing a retailer to issue cards to account 
holders, expressed concern regarding the relatively narrow definition of 
t h e term "credit card" proposed by the staff. He would prefer to use 
the definition in the law, which was more comprehensive. 
Staff cited difficulties that might be encountered with various 
types of credit instruments if the statutory definition were used. It 

12R 
1/19/71 
-5-
was also not considered practicable to use a definition in the regulation 
that would attempt to name each instrument covered, because of the 
possibilities of evasion. 
There followed discussion regarding the means and timeliness of 
notification to the issuer of the loss of a credit card, in which respect 
a change in the proposed amendment was agreed upon, and of notification 
by the issuer to the holder of the latter's potential liability. 
On the question of adoption of the proposed amendments, Governor 
Sherrill indicated that he would dissent with respect to the definition 
°f "credit card." He thought that the proposed redefinition might change 
the import of the law. 
It was noted that such a change would necessitate substantial 
redrafting, which might present a problem because January 25, 1971, was 
the effective date of the statute. In the circumstances, and despite 
reservations on the part of some Board members regarding certain of the 
provisions, the amendments to Regulation Z were thereupon approved, 
effective January 25, 1971, Governor Sherrill dissenting with respect 
to the definition of "credit card." Copies of the pertinent press release 
and of the amendments in the form in which they were sent to the Federal 
Reg ister are attached under Item No. 6. 
In this connection, a view was expressed that the Board should 
n°t be put in a position where, because of time limitations, it had 
kittle alternative but to accept whatever regulatory proposals the staff 

129: 
1/19/71 
-6-
had drafted. The staff was asked to study the problem and try to devise 
means of preventing such situations from arising in the future. 
Eximbank bill. In a memorandum dated January 18, 1971, Mr. Cardon 
discussed a request from the Office of Management and Budget for the 
Board's views on a draft bill that would exclude the Export-Import Bank 
from Federal budget totals and spending ceiling, extend its life, and 
raise the limits on the loans, guarantees, and insurance it may have 
outstanding. An analysis of the bill was contained in an accompanying 
memorandum from the Division of International Finance. The proposed 
reply would oppose excluding the Eximbank from the budget totals and the 
spending ceiling, but would add a suggestion that the general objectives 
°f those proposals might be accomplished by converting the bank into a 
Private institution. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that if the Eximbank were 
made a private institution, a number of serious problems would be encoun-
tered, especially with respect to the foreign credit restraint program. 
He was also concerned about the implications for monetary policy of an 
arrangement understood to be contemplated by the Eximbank under which 
It would discount short-term credit extended by commercial banks. 
After further discussion the letter to the Office of Management 
and Budget was approved in the form attached as Item No. 7, Governor 
dimmer dissenting with respect to inclusion of the suggestion for 
inverting the Eximbank into a private institution. 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
The meeting proceded from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Euro-dollars. The Board had recently had several discussions of 
reserve requirement action designed to check the outflow of Euro-dollars. 
One objection was that the released reserves would accrue principally to 
a relatively few large banks that had been the major borrowers of Euro-
dollars . 
Another measure that had been suggested involved a change in the 
Pertinent directive of the Federal Open Market Committee to permit matched 
sale-purchase transactions in U.S. Government securities with member banks 
In an amount related to their holdings of Euro-dollars and of a special 
recent issue of paper of the Export-Import Bank. 
The members of the Board had now been furnished a draft of tele-
gram to the Reserve Bank Presidents who were voting members of the Federal 
Open Market Committee that would propose the following three-stage approach 
Stage 1: Determination whether a majority of the Committee 
agreed in principle with the proposed amendment of the continuing 
authority directive as a useful contingency plan, to be acted upon 
finally at a subsequent time if necessary. 
Stage 2: (If the determination under stage 1 was favorable.) 
Formal vote by the Federal Open Market Committee to adopt such an 
amendment to the continuing authority directive, if and when devel-
opments made it desirable for the System to be in a position to 
undertake such operations. 
iV-! U • 
.. 
Stage 3: If circumstances required, action by a Subcommittee 
of the Open Market Committee to instruct the Account Manager to 
undertake actual operations, within limits established by the amend-
ment to the directive, and with such specific instructions from the 
Subcommittee as appeared desirable. 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
The telegram would request advice whether or not the President-
members would agree in principle, as a basis for contingency planning, 
to an amendment of the directive. 
The reserve effects of the matched sale-purchase transactions 
were described by Mr. Axilrod in a memorandum dated January 18, 1971. 
The Board had also been furnished copies of a memorandum of that same 
date in which Mr. Coombs, Special Manager of the System Open Market 
Account, commented on the Euro-dollar reflow problem. 
Initial discussion related to the fact that the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements had shifted approximately $1 billion of its funds 
from New York to the Euro-dollar market. Mr. Coombs had suggested a 
course of action involving principally appeals to foreign central banks 
and the BIS. 
Comments were made on the probable reaction to such an appeal, 
no conclusions were reached. A suggestion was made that the manage-
ment of the BIS might not be fully aware of the diversion of funds to 
the»,Euro-dollar market, and a view was expressed that there was some 
b a sis for believing that the BIS portfolio was being reconstituted. 
As to the proposed telegram, Governor Brimmer said he would not 
in favor of matched sale-purchase transactions, which he regarded as 
a long step toward committing the System to funding of the balance of 
Payments deficit. He believed that any agreement, even in principle, 
should come only after full discussion by the Committee. Therefore, he 
w°nld oppose sending the telegram. 

±3 
1/19/71 
-9-
Chairman Burns noted that two plans had been discussed. One 
called for reserve requirement action, and it was his impression that 
the majority of the Board did not feel at ease with respect to it. The 
other--matched sale-purchase transactions--had seemed to some members to 
offer more promise. In response to his inquiry, Governors Robertson, 
Daane, and Brimmer indicated a leaning toward the reserve requirement 
approach, while Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill joined Chairman 
Burns in a tentative preference for the matched sale-purchase plan. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the Committee lacked 
legal power to engage in matched sale-purchase transactions, whereas 
the Board clearly had power to change reserve requirements. He would 
agree to a contingency plan involving the use of reserve requirements, 
although he had doubts that it ought to be used because he thought the 
Potential impact of the Euro-dollar outflow was being exaggerated. 
Upon request for comments on the legal aspects of the matched 
sale-purchase plan, Mr. Hackley expressed the view that it would be 
subject to some legal question. However, it might be argued that the 
System had been doing essentially the same thing in domestic open market 
operations for several years. Moreover, the swap transactions in foreign 
currencies also in effect constituted borrowings. 
After further discussion addressed principally to procedural 
Points, the sending of the telegram was approved, Governors Robertson 
a n d Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the telegram, in the form in which it 
W as transmitted, is attached as Item No. 8. 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
Interest rate ceilings. Governor Mitchell said that for pur-
poses of a forthcoming meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Commit-
tee on Bank Regulation he would like to ascertain the Board's view 
regarding extension of the interest rate ceiling legislation, which 
would expire in March. Unless the Board felt differently, he would 
express the view that the present authority should be made permanent. 
There was unanimous agreement. 
Conference of Business Economists. The Board approved the 
scheduling of a meeting of available members of the Board with the Con-
ference of Business Economists on February 11, 1971, in connection with 
the winter meeting of the Conference in Washington. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:00 p.m., with all members of the Board present and Messrs. Holland and 
Johnson (Director, Division of Personnel Administration). 
Cleveland Bank. Attention was directed to a letter dated Janu-
a rY 14, 1971, from Chairman Clay of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
setting forth the names of seven persons considered by the Cleveland 
directors as possible candidates for the presidency of the Reserve Bank. 
(A copy of that letter has been placed in the Secretary's confidential 
file.) 
After discussion, the Board agreed to inform Mr. Clay that it 
W a s prepared to give favorable consideration to any one of four of the 
names on the list if the Cleveland directors should so recommend. In 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
addition, the Board members agreed upon seven other individuals it would 
be prepared to consider favorably for the Cleveland presidency and 
directed the Secretary to convey these names to the Cleveland Board. 
Furthermore, the Board decided to indicate to the Cleveland directors 
that, if the latter knew of a first-rate, broad-guaged businessman with 
a grasp of financial affairs whom they would like to add to the list of 
Possible candidates, the Board would be glad to give his name considera-
tion. 
(Note: The above information was communicated to the Cleveland 
directors by letter dated January 21, 1971, from the Secretary to 
Mr. Keener, Deputy Chairman of the Cleveland Board of Directors, at the 
request of Chairman Clay. A copy of that letter has also been placed in 
the Secretary's confidential file.) 
The following persons then entered the room: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
were present. 

1/19/71 
-12-
One-bank holding companies. With a memorandum dated January 13, 
1971, the Legal Division submitted a revised draft of regulation to 
implement the recent amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. The 
changes from an earlier draft reflected views the Board had previously 
expressed; the memorandum commented on those changes as well as certain 
possible alternatives. 
In a memorandum dated January 18 the Legal Divi-
sion reported on discussions with the Department of Justice. 
Applications for de novo entry by a holding company into any 
°f a list of activities specified as permissible would be deemed to be 
aPproved unless the applicant was notified to the contrary within 30 days 
after the application was filed. In Governor Robertson's view, this 
seemed inconsistent with the terms of the statute regarding the right of 
a competitor to be a party at interest and the obligation of the Board to 
base approvals on positive findings that outweighed any adverse competi-
tive effects. 
It might, however, be possible to comply with the statute 
by 
delegating authority to the Reserve Banks to act upon certain classes 
°f de novo entry applications, with any hearings held by the Banks. 
The Legal Division cited the fact that the statute permitted 
the Board to treat de novo entry differently from acquisitions of going 
businesses. To the extent that there was an obligation to afford a 
competitor an opportunity to be a party at interest, that might be satis-
fied by publication of notice of the filing of an application. Also, 
Persons could appear at the general hearings to be held regarding the 
c 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
proposed permissible activities in advance of adoption of the regulation, 
and additional hearings would not necessarily be foreclosed. Mr. Cardon 
observed that representatives of the responsible Congressional commit-
tees had been made aware that the Board contemplated automatic approvals 
under guidelines for de novo entry, and no objection was known to have 
been raised. 
After discussion of particular situations that might arise and 
the manner in which they would be handled under the proposed regulation, 
Governor Robertson stated that he continued to have reservations. 
Other 
members subscribed to the position of the Legal Division. However, 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that initially, at least, a longer 
oti • 
v. 
Period than 30 days should be provided. At his suggestion, there was 
agreement that 45 days should be allowed. The Board also accepted language 
changes intended to avoid any impression that a hearing would be available 
in every case. 
It was also agreed that it should be made clear that the regula-
tion would authorize the conduct of the permissible activities with no 
general geographical limitation, although such a limitation might be 
specified in some circumstances. 
c. 
Reference was made to a proposed standard condition that an 
acquired company shall not alter its activities significantly or change 
its location except with prior approval of the Board. There was agree-
-o . , • • 
ment with a suggestion that, especially in the interest of administrative 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
convenience with respect to changes in sites of multiple-unit subsid- « 
iaries, a notification procedure be provided under which such changes 
could be effected within a specified period. 
The discussion then turned to the list of activities proposed 
to be specified as permissible. No objections were expressed with 
respect to those relating to servicing loans; acting as fiduciary; act-
ing as investment or financial adviser; and making equity investments 
in 
certain community rehabilitation and development corporations. The 
following paragraphs summarize the principal views expressed with respect 
: , 
... VI." 
to the remainder of the list. 
Lending 
funds on own account or for the account 
°f others, including a mortgage company, finance 
£°gipanyT or factoring company 
. . . . 
; 
As much specificity as possible was suggested, although the 
>-\ 
...... lu-4 as lau'jr^ia 
difficulties of precise definition were recognized. A majority view 
• \.i r C'-r 
•'•' • •••• ro-ji'uirto t" 
- 
•'• '' 
emerged in favor of citing examples, and after discussion of staff sug-
gestions it was understood that alternative phrasing would be developed. 
' 
« 
; , 
,,, .... . . 
Operating 
a savings bank, savings and loan 
^lgociationT or industrial bank 
- S i 
Some members of the Board expressed reluctance to specify opera-
tion of a savings and loan association as a permissible holding company 
Activity, at least initially; one remarked that he was willing to publish 
Such a proposal for comment only because he thought the legislative history 
S o indicated. Discussion of possible overlap with a statute requiring 
W M K ' 

z
m 
1/19/71 
-12-
approval by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board of acquisition of a savings 
i.-UV 
and loan association by a holding company included a suggestion for 
Cft Iv.v,..:•;. 
coordination with that Board. 
Leasing property, where the initial lease provides 
for payment of rentals that will reimburse the 
lessor for the full purchase price of the property 
The proposed wording would have permitted leasing real property, 
and there was agreement with a suggestion to limit the permissible 
.iU'v» 1 . . 
.,. 
• 
' • •' 
activity to leasing of personal property. 
Acting as insurer, or as insurance agent or 
broker, principally in connection with extensions 
°f credit by one or more subsidiaries of the 
holding company or by other financial institutions 
One option suggested was to allow acting as insurer only for 
subsidiaries of the parent holding company, and to list as a separate 
activity acting as insurance agent or broker. Discussion developed a 
Preference for retaining the word "principally" in the interest of 
flexibility. 
Various questions related to the scope of insurance activ-
ity that should be permitted were explored. Comments on a proposal to 
Permit acting as an insurer for small business loans made by correspon-
dents of bank subsidiaries of a holding company indicated some reluctano 
t o broaden the permission to that extent, but also some disposition to 
include the possibility in the proposal to be published for comment. Th 
s t aff was requested to submit a revised proposal. 
c 

133 
1/19/71 
-16-
Providing bookkeeping or data processing services 
for subsidiaries and other financial institutions 
or pay roll, account reconciliation, and accounts 
receivable processing services for the public 
Discussion revolved principally around the extent to which ser-
vices should be allowed for customers outside the holding company system. 
Governor Maisel had suggested, in a memorandum dated January 14, 1971, 
that services for outsiders be permitted to equal one-third of the total 
Provided for the parent holding company system. After discussion of 
Possible variations of this rule, it was understood that revised language 
Would be developed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

140: 
Item No. 1 
1/19/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
NEW MEXICO BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Santa Fe, New Mexico, 
approval of action to become a bank 
°lding company through the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
^ares of (1) The First National Bank of 
Santa Fe, Santa Fe, New Mexico, and (2) 
First State Bank of Taos, Taos, New Mexico. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(l)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application of New Mexico Bancorporation, Inc., 
Santa Fe, New Mexico, for the Board!s prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
8 0 Per cent or more of the voting shares of each of the following two 
b*nks in New Mexico: The First National Bank of Santa Fe, Santa Fe, and 
? l rst State Bank of Taos, Taos. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
' 
V 
-
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 

141 
- 4 -
and the Commissioner of Banking of the State of New Mexico and requested 
their views and recommendations. The Commissioner stated that he had 
n° objection to approval of the application, and the Comptroller recommended 
that the application be approved. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 1, 1970 (35 Federal Register 18304), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
W as forxrarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
° r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 19, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
NEW MEXICO BANCORPORATION, INC., SANTA FE, NEW MEXICO 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
New Mexico Bancorporation, Inc., Santa Fe, New Mexico ("Applicant") 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of (1) The First National Bank of Santa Fe, Santa Fe, 
NeW Mexico ("First National"), and (2) First State Bank of Taos, Taos, 
New Mexico ("First Taos"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
teeeipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
c°mmissioner of Banking of the State of New Mexico and requested their 
Vietts and recommendations. The Commissioner stated that he had no 
Ejection to approval of the application, and the Comptroller recommended 
that the application be approved. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
th*t the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 

143 
- 4 -
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of x^hich, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Eoard finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
t0 be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned9 and the convenience and needs 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction, - The 10 largest 
banlcing organizations in New Mexico control deposits of $962.0 million, 
^-Presenting 70.5 per cent of State-wide deposits.-'' First National is 
Presently the fourth largest bank and fifth largest banking organization 
in the State with aggregate deposits of $50.5 million. First Taos, with 
Posits of $8.8 million, holds less than 1 per cent of State-wide deposits, 
acquisition by Applicant of First National and First Taos, Applicant 
^°Uld be the fifth largest banking organization in New Mexico and the 
|^lT~deposit data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect all holding 
jj mPany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
^cember 31, 1970. References to "deposits" include only deposits 
io by commercial banks. 

±41 
- 3 -
fourth and smallest bank holding company in the State* Applicant would 
control only 4.4 per cent, and bank holding companies would in the 
a8gregate control 46.0 per cent, of State-wide deposits. Consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would result in only a small increase in banking 
concentration in New Mexico and may have a procompetitive effect in that 
it would create a regional bank holding company that eventually should 
b e capable of offering effective competition to the larger State-wide 
inking organizations. 
On the basis of deposits, First National is the largest bank 
8erving the Santa Fe-Los Alamos market and holds 53 per cent of deposits 
i n that market. First National's principal competitors include Santa Fe 
**ational Bank, a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, and Bank of Santa 
Pe 
^ a member of a group of banks in New Mexico, Texas and Wyoming under 
c°®mon control. Competition in the relevant market is not likely to be 
Aversely affected by consummation of the proposal. 
First Taoe is the larger of two banks in Taos, with 75 per cent 
o f deposits in the Taos market. First Taos has branches at Questa and 
Ren 
a River. The only other bank in Taos, Centinel Bank of Taos (founded 
in 
ea*ly 1969), is well capitalized and capable of offering First Taos 
ef fo 
ective competition. A close working relationship has existed between 
3t National and First Taos for many years, and it appears unlikely that 
filiation 
of these banks would significantly alter the competitive 
situation in Taos. 

145 
- 4 -
The proposed subsidiaries serve fairly distinct and separate 
Markets. The shortest distance between any office of First National ana 
any office of First Taos is approximately 50 miles, being the distance 
between First National's branch office in Pojoaque and the main office 
o f First Taos in Taos. The intervening area betx^een the two banks is 
undeveloped and sparsely populated and is already served by two other 
banks. Under New Mexico law, neither of the proposed subsidiaries could 
establish a branch in the other's market. First National has been the 
Principal correspondent of First Taos for many years, and the president 
o f First Taos is a director and shareholder of First National0 
There 
spears to be no substantial competition between the two banks and little 
likelihood that they would become significant competitors. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, 
n°r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
m°nopoli2e the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
Would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or 
to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
^PPlicant appears to be adequately capitalized* 
Its management, which 
is virtually identical to that of First National with the addition of 
tlle President of First Taos as its chairman, is regarded as competent, 
a-, j 
^ 
its prospects appear to be favorable. 

14 G 
- 5 
Both of Applicant's proposed subsidiaries are in satisfactory 
financial condition, with competent management, and favorable prospects. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the banking 
factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The major 
hanking needs of the communities served by the proposed subsidiaries 
aPpear to be adequately served at the present time. However, development 
o f the Taos area has not kept pace with that in New Mexico or the rest of 
t h e country0 
Formation of a regional bank holding company holds forth 
t h e prospect that greater resourcefulness will be brought to the task of 
devel0ping tourism in, and attracting industry to, the Taos area. 
These considerations lend some support for approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
ansaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
sh°uld be approved,, 
J*nuary 1 9 > 1971. 

Item No. 
1/19/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CONSOLIDATED BANKSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
F o r t Lauderdale, Florida, 
approval of action to become a bank 
"°lding company through the acquisition 
100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors1 qualifying shares) of 
Security First National Bank of Plantation, 
Florida, a proposed new bank, and 80 per 
Cent or more of the voting shares of each 
the following Florida banks: First 
National Bank in Fort Lauderdale; 
lantation First National Bank, Plantation; 
^aranty First National Bank of Fort 
Lauderdale; and Ocean First National Bank 
o f Port Lauderdale. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(l)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Consolidated Bankshares of 
^°tida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, for the Board's approval of 
ction whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 

148 
-16-
the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Security First National Bank of Plantation, 
Florida, a proposed new bank, and 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of each of the following Florida banks: First National Bank 
in Fort Lauderdale; Plantation First National Bank, Plantation; 
Guaranty First National Bank of Fort Lauderdale; and Ocean First 
National Bank of Fort Lauderdale. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
Ejection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 20, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17879), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
t h e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, and provided 
farther that (c) Security First National Bank of Plantation shall be 

149 
-16-
open for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. 
The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 19, 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent arid not voting: Governor Daane 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

150: 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CONSOLIDATED BANKSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Consolidated Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, 
Florida ("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 
^(a)(l) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for 
approval of action to become a bank holding company through r.he 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of Security First National Bank of Plantation, 
Florida ("Security Bank"), a proposed new bank, and GO per cant or 
^ore of the voting shares of each of the following Florida banks: 
pirst National Bank in Fort Lauderdale ("First National"); Plantation 
First National Bank, Plantation ("Plantation Bank"); Guaranty First 
^ational Bank of Fort Lauderdale ("Guaranty Bank"); and Ocean First 
National Bank of Fort Lauderdale ("Ocean Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
tecJuired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
Of y. 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no 
Action to approval of the application. 

151 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a t G clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
th 
e transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into cons id-
eation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
^argest banking organizations, on the basis of deposits, in the State 
o t Florida control about 42 per cent of the deposits in the State.—' 
consummation of the proposed transaction, Applicant, with control 
of i 
per cent of the deposits in the State, would become the State's 
tvjrclfth largest banking organization and eleventh largest bank holding 
°0ltlPany. 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

152 
-16-
The five banks that would comprise the holding company group 
are or will be located in close proximity, and there is considerable 
overlap of their service areas. First National ($160 million deposits), 
Guaranty Bank ($22 million deposits), and Ocean Bank ($9 million 
deposits) are all located in Fort Lauderdale. Plantation Bank ($32 
million deposits) is located in Plantation, a suburb west of Fort 
Lauderdale, and Security Bank, a proposed new bank, will also be 
situated in Plantation. First National is within 6.5 miles of the 
sites of each of the other proposed subsidiaries. 
Through acquisition of these banks, Applicant would become 
largest banking organization in the Fort Lauderdale area by 
virtue of its control of about 35 per cent of market deposits. Other 
banks and banking organizations in the market are Broward Bancshares, 
with 28 per cent of market deposits; subsidiaries of Pan American 
Bancshares and Southeast Bancorporation, which together control about 
per cent of market deposits; three local banking groups; and one 
independent unit bank. 
Despite the overlapping service areas of the proposed 
subsidiaries and the fact that Applicant would become the largest 
Participant in its market, consummation of the proposal would not 
eIiminate any existing competition. The four proposed subsidiaries 
in 
operation are closely affiliated through common individual 
°^nership and control, and Security 3ank is being organized by 
^ifst National. As a result, the banks do not compete with each 

153 
-16-
other, as is evidenced by the facts that the banks frequently refer 
customers to one another to meet the customers' needs, and in many 
instances, customers do various types of business with two or more 
banks in the group. 
Additionally, there is common advertising, 
Pooling of account information, joint support of one trust department, 
and the servicing of each of the banks by one internal audit staff. 
Moreover, employees of the affiliated banks share common fringe 
benefit programs. 
Nor is consummation of the proposal likely to foreclose 
Potential competition. Controlling shareholders of First National 
sponsored the organization of Plantation Bank in 1957, and Guaranty 
^ank and Ocean Bank in 1963; and they are now sponsoring the organi-
sation of Security Bank. Shareholders owning more than 50 per cent 
the voting shares of First National have owned 70 per cent or more 
the voting shares of each of the other operating proposed subsidi-
s e s continuously since the inception of each. It appears unlikely 
a t the banks would, in the foreseeable future, become disaffiliated 
or fn 
o r any other reason become more meaningful competitors. 
* 
- < i 
rit ' ' • - 
' 
• 
• 
r 
• • • • " . > • ' ' 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
tllG business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
n o t restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create 
Monopoly in any part of the country. 

Financial and manager^! resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its proposed subsidiaries 
is satisfactory, their managements are considered competent, and their 
prospects are regarded as favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - It 
appears that the banking needs of the Fort Lauderdale and Plantation 
communities are being adequately served at the present time. The 
Proposed subsidiaries are already cooperating with each other to meet 
the needs of the communities; formation of the proposed bank holding 
company will facilitate such efforts, and enable the participating 
hanks to provide more effective competition to other bank holding 
company affiliates in the area. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communj: ties involved are consistent with, and lend some weight in 
SuPport of, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
f°rth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
aPplication should be approved. 
January 19, 1971 

155 
B D A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
1/19/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 19, 1971 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
250 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 23, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MMIC") to 
continue to hold the shares of Marine Midland Overseas Corporation 
("MMOC"), New York, New Ycrk, after MMOC acquires, directly or 
indirectly through Marinvest S.A., Luxembourg, the remaining 60 per 
cent of the shares not now held indirectly by MMOC of Marine Midland 
investment Fund, S.A. ("Fund"), Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately 
v60,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
oate of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that MMOC or 
arinvest S.A. will divest themselves of the shares in the Fund, 
"ich they will acquire under this consent, prior to its activation, 
and while it is still dormant. 
This is to say, divestment will 
°ccur before the sale of any shares beyond those presently outstanding 
° r any further investment in equities. 
* 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
he foreign lending and investment activities of MMOC will be governed 
y the foreign credit restraint guidelines, in particular by those 
Provisions which call for the foreign assets of MMOC, minus outstanding 
founts of foreign borrowings by MMOC of an original maturity of three 
^ a r s or more, to be consolidated with the foreign assets of Marine 
Poland International Corporation for the purposes of the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
1/19/71 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A C 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 19, 1971 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
Your letter of June 11, 1970, requests the consent of the 
Board of Governors for your bank to continue to hold the shares of 
International Trust Company ("ITC"), Montreal, Canada, after ITC 
acquires an additional 80 per cent of the outstanding common stock 
°f Andreae Equity Investment Fund Limited ("Andreae"), Toronto, 
.Canada. 
It is understood that Andreae (1) is an investment com-
pany operating as a mutual fund under the laws of Canada, (2) sells 
and distributes its shares to the public only in Canada and does 
not sell its shares to residents of the United States, (3) invests 
the proceeds from the sales of such shares in a diversified portfolio 
securities, and (4) through its investments, will not be in a -posi-
tion to exercise, directly or indirectly, effective control of any 
company whose shares it holds. 
It is further understood that while 
'-he proposed additional investment in Andreae would give ITC voting 
control of Andreae, the equity interest of ITC in the net assets of 
Andreae would be miniscule. 
On the basis of the facts and the foregoing understandings, 
£he Board of Governors grants consent for your bank to continue to 
hol-d the shares of ITC after ITC acquires an additional 80 per cent 
the outstanding common stock of Andreae at a cost of approximately 
^46,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
of this letter. In this connection, the purchase and holding 
o f the above shares in excess of 10 per cent of ITC's capital and 
SurPlus is also approved. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
Andreae by ITC is granted subject to the following conditions: 

First National City Bank 
-2-
' v • •' 
' • •••• • 
• 
• 
. 
- » '' • 
• .' • !
< 
' 
' ••...• '.••' 
• 
• 
(1) That ITC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of Andreae if Andreae at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if Andreae establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Canada or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to ITC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, ITC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Andreae as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Andreae 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Andreae were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That ITC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Andreae at a net amount in excess of the book capital 
accounts of Andreae, after giving effect to the elim-
ination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, and again to 
the foregoing understandings, the Board suspends until further notice 
the provisions of subparagraphs (1) and (3) of the immediately pre-
ceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to the invest-
m e n t portfolio of Andreae. 
It is understood that the proposed acquisition will require 
n° additional investment in ITC by your bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

••R-r istf.-
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
158: 
Item No. 5 
1/19/71 
ADORE'JS DFnCI/iL CnRRCSPONOENCE 
TO THE 13DARD 
January 19, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
3 99 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gent'lemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 13, 1970, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of National City Financial 
Services, Inc. ("NCFS"), San Juan, Puerto Rico, at a cost of approx-
imately $1,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
0 m the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of NCFS if NCFS at any tirate fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if NCFS establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of NCFS as it may require from time to time; 
and 

r • 
ffirst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by NCFS 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if NCFS were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
It is requested that the Board of Governors be furnished 
though the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles 
o f Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of NCFS. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
i;\ r« i 
' • 

—
J
-
u
—
i
.
a
.
.
,
;
,
,
,
u
i
j 
w
m
m
m
m
m
m
m
^ 
f if it?) i f M 
i l l l f v i i o I
^Wllflll^: / 
Item No. 6 
1/19/71 
P o r 
immediate release 
January 20, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
amended its regulations to implement legislation enacted by Congress 
that bans unsolicited issuance of credit cards and generally limits 
t o $50 a cardholder's liability for unauthorized use of a credit card. 
The amendments add a new section to the Board's Truth in 
et*dirig Regulation Z and incorporate references to credit cards in an 
xisting section outlining the scope and purposes of the regulation. 
amendments also permit states to apply for exemption from the 
6(teral credit card law and regulations where they have substantially 
laws and regulations and adequate provision for enforcement. 
Under the law, if a card issuer wishes to hold a cardholder 
a M e f o r unauthorized use, he can do so only if: 
1. the card has been accepted; 
2. the liability does not exceed $50; 
3. adequate notice of potential liability was furnished to 
th° c*rdholder; 
the card issuer has provided an addressed notification 
stat 
e m e n t which the cardholder may return in the event of loss or theft 
of a credit card; and 
5. the unauthorized use occurs before the cardholder has 
< G d the card issuer of the loss, theft or other occurrence. 

161 
- 2 -
In addition, for cards issued after January 24, 1971--and 
V c 
after January 24, 1972 for all cards no matter when issued--a card-
holder is liable for unauthorized use only if the card issuer has 
Provided a method by which the user of a card can be identified as 
the person authorized to use it. 
Major provisions of the regulatory amendments: 
--Define a credit card as "any card, plate, coupon book, 
° r other single credit device existing for the purpose of being used from 
time to time upon presentation to obtain money, property, labor or 
SGrvices on credit." Such instruments as notes, checks, drafts and 
gift certificates are not covered by this definition and consequently 
not subject to the $50 liability limit for unauthorized use. 
--Specify the information to be provided by the card issuer 
in advising cardholders of their potential liability for unauthorized 
Use« 
This information is to be provided on the credit card or at two 
y e ar intervals. 
--Specify a method of identification of the user of the 
c*edit card such as by signature, photograph, or fingerprint on the 
C a rd, or electronic or mechanical confirmation. 
--Specify that the cardholder's notice of loss, theft, or 
Possible unauthorized use will be considered given at the time of 
®Ceipt or at the expiration of the time ordinarily required for 
U*ansmission. 
'VVi' v* ' ' 
Regulation Z, in its provisions covering rescission and dis-
L°sure of the terms of a credit transaction, requires creditors to 
clos 

162 
:• v »•• 
. ' • - 7 • 
... 
Hr4 
-3-* 
. . 
i 
preserve for two years evidence that they met those requirements of 
Truth in Lending. No such provision is included in the regulatory 
amendments relating to credit cards and no record retention requirements 
are applicable. 
Attached is a copy of the amendments. 
-0-
• : 
i . 
: • • 
. J . 
,-u \ • 
v >* . • 
••'•W.-rvi-fv' r ' 
'ii^i';,, 
f r- • 
* ; 
• 
< 
t> 

16 
r> 
O-
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Reg. Z 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Credit Cards--Issuance and Liability 
1. Effective January 25, 1971, § 226.1 and § 226.12 are 
tended and § 226.13 and Supplement IV are added to Part 226 as follows: 
^6.1 Authority, Scope, Purpose, etc. 
(a) Authority, scope and purpose--(1) This Part comprises 
regulations issued by the Board of Governors of the. Federal Reserve 
Syste.m pursuant to Title I (Truth in Lending Act) and Title V (General 
r°visions) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, as amended (15 
§ 1601 et seq.). Except as otherwise provided herein, this Part 
G s to all persons who in the ordinary course of business regularly 
» or offer to extend, or arrange, or offer to arrange, for the 
sion of consumer credit as defined in paragraph (k) of § 226.2, and to 
Persons 
who issue credit cards. 
(2) This Part implements the Act, the purpose of which is to 
assure t-u 
cnat every customer who has need for consumer credit is given 
lnSful information with respect to the cost of that credit which, 
ln most cases, must be expressed in the dollar amount of finance charge, 
a n annual percentage rate computed on the unpaid balance of the 
financed. Other relevant credit information must also be disclosed 
8° ^at t-u 
c"e customer may readily compare the various credit terms available 
to h< 
'itn f rom different sources and avoid the uninformed use of credit. 

164 
- 2 -
this 
Part also implements the provision of the Act under which a customer 
has a right in certain circumstances to cancel a credit transaction which 
involves a lien on his residence. Advertising of consumer credit terms 
m u st comply with specific requirements, and certain credit terms may 
n°t be advertised unless the creditor usually and customarily extends 
iftfi'-
Such terms. This Part also contains prohibitions against the issuance 
o f unsolicited credit cards and limits on the cardholder's liability for 
^authorized use of a credit card. Neither the Act nor this Part is 
^tended to control charges for consumer credit, or interfere with trade 
Practices except to the extent that such practices may be inconsistent 
with the purpose of the Act. 
(b) Administrative enforcement--(1) As set forth more fully 
Section 108 of the Act, administrative enforcement of the Act and this 
jj 
r t with respect to certain creditors and credit card issuers is assigned 
to the Comptroller of the Currency, Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit 
*nsurance Corporation, Federal Home Loan Bank Board (acting directly or through 
^ 
federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation), Administrator of the 
^ational Credit Union Administration, Interstate Commerce Commission, Civil 
Aet°nautics Board, Secretary of Agriculture, and Board of Governors of 
federal Reserve System. 
(2) Except to the extent that administrative enforcement is 
Pecifically committed to other authorities, compliance with the require-
e n t s imposed under the Act and this Part will be enforced by the Federal 
Commissi on. 

-17-
(c) Penalties and liabilities. Section 112 of the Act 
Provides for criminal liability for willful and knowing failure to 
c°mply with any requirement imposed under the Act and this Part, and 
8ection 130 of the Act provides for civil liability on the part of 
creditor who fails to disclose any information required under 
Ch 
aPter 2 of the Act and under the corresponding provisions of this 
Section 134 provides for criminal liability for the fraudulent 
°f a credit card to obtain goods or services having a retail value 
legating $5,000 or more. Pursuant to section 108 of the Act, 
vlol 
ations of the Act or this Part constitute violations of other Federal 
w»ich may provide further penalties. 
•k k k k k 
§ 226 i o Exemption of Certain State Regulated Transactions " • 
(a) Exemption for State regulated transactions. 
In accordance 
th 
110 Provisions of Supplements II and IV to Regulation Z, any State 
application to the Board for exemption of any class of trans-
18 within that State from the requirements of Chapter 2 of the 
Act an ? 
u the corresponding provisions of this Part: Provided, That 
(1) Under the law of that State, that class of transactions 
8ubJect to requirements substantially similar to thoae imposed under 
r 2 of the Act and the corresponding provisions of this Part; and 
(2) There is adequate provision for enforcement. 
(b) Procedures and criteria. The procedures and criteria 
^"ich any State may apply for the determination provided for in 
QPh (a) of this section are set forth in Supplement II to 
1 6 r; 
a 
1 

Regulation Z with respect to disclosure and rescission requirements 
(§§ 121 - 131 of Chapter 2) and Supplement IV with respect to the 
Prohibition of the issuance of unsolicited credit cards and the liability 
the cardholder for unauthorized use of a credit card (§§ 132 - 133 
o f Chapter 2). 
(c) Civil liability. In order to assure that the concurrent 
^risdiction of Federal and State courts created in section 130(e) of 
ttle Act shall continue to have substantive provisions to which such 
Jurisdiction shall apply, and generally to aid in implementing the 
Act-
With respect to any class of transactions exempted pursuant to 
Patagraph (a) of this section and Supplement II, the Board pursuant to 
SGctions 105 and 123 hereby prescribes that: 
(1) No such exemption shall be deemed to extend to the civil 
i a bUity provisions of sections 130 and 131; and 
(2) After an exemption has been granted, the disclosure 
^rements of the applicable State law shall constitute the disclosure 
6quirements of this Act, except to the extent that such State law 
trnPo e s disclosure requirements not imposed by this Act. 
Information 
^ r e d under such State law with the exception of those provisions 
*hlch . 
impose disclosure requirements not imposed by this Act shall, 
C°vdingly, constitute the "information required under this Chapter" 
<cW>t 
2 of the Act) for the purpose of section 130(a). 
^ 
Exemptions granted. Exemptions granted by the Board to 
lar classes of credit transactions within specified States are 
rttl in Supplement III to Regulation Z. 

±6' 
-5-
3 ^6.13 Credit Cards—Issuance and Liability 
..if'-' 
i 
(a) Supplemental definitions applicable to this section. 
ln addition to the definitions set forth in § 226.2, as applicable, the 
Allowing definitions apply to this section: 
(1) "Accepted credit card" means any credit card which the 
has requested or applied for and received, or has signed, 
°r has used, or has authorized another person to use for the purpose of 
Gaining money, property, labor, or services on credit. Any credit 
Card issued in renewal of, or in substitution for, an accepted credit 
Card becomes an accepted credit card when received by the cardholder 
^Gther such card is issued by the same or a successor card issuer. 
(2) "Adequate notice" means a printed notice to a cardholder 
Vhi > 
c h 8ets forth the pertinent facts clearly and conspicuously so that 
Person against whom it is to operate could reasonably be expected to 
n°ticed it and understood its meaning. 
(3) "Card issuer" means any person who issues a credit card, 
or th G agent of such person with respect to such card. 
(4) "Cardholder" means any person to whom a credit card is 
S U e d °r any person who has agreed with the card issuer to pay obligations 
from the issuance of a credit card to another person. 
(5) "Credit" means the right to defer payment of debt, incur 
debt a 
a n d defer its payment, or to obtain money, property, labor or services 
Payment therefor. 

-17-
<6) "Credit card" means any card, plate, coupon book, or 
other single credit device existing for the purpose of being used from 
i -v! 
. i s •*•( i 
time to time upon presentation to obtain money, property, labor, or 
services on credit. 
(7) "Unauthorized use" means the use of a credit card by a 
Person other than the cardholder 
(i) who does not have actual, implied, or apparent 
authority for such use, and 
(ii) from which the cardholder receives no benefit, 
(b) Issuance of credit cards. No credit card shall be issued 
e*cept: 
(1) In response to a request or application therefor, or 
(2) As a renewal of, or in substitution for, an accepted credit 
ai>d whether such card is issued by the same or a successor card issuer. 
Conditions of liability of cardholder. A cardholder shall 
e liable for unauthorized use of a credit card only if, 
(1) The credit card is an accepted credit card; 
(2) Such liability does not exceed the lesser of $50 or 
the a 
mount of money, property, labor, or services obtained by such use 
P^ior t-
c o notification of the card issuer pursuant to paragraph (f) 
°f this section; 
(3) The card issuer has given adequate notice to the cardholder 
of ^ 
Potential liability on the credit card or within two years preceeding 
Authorized use; and 

169 
-16-
(4) The card issuer has provided the cardholder with an 
Pressed notification requiring no postage to be paid by the cardholder 
wh*ch may be mailed by the cardholder in the event of the loss, theft, 
°r Possible unauthorized use of the credit card. 
(d) Other conditions of liability. 
In addition to the conditions 
0 f liability in paragraph (c) of this section, no cardholder shall be 
liable for the unauthorized use of any credit card which was issued 
aft*r January 24, 1971, and, regardless of the date of its issuance, 
a f t e* January 24, 1972, no cardholder shall be liable for the unauthorized 
USe 
any credit card, unless the card issuer has provided a method 
hereby the user of such card can be identified as the person authorized 
t0 U s e it, such as by signature, photograph, or fingerprint on the credit 
°r by electronic or mechanical confirmation. 
; . 
(e) Notice to cardholder. The notice to cardholder pursuant 
° Paragraph (c)(3) of this section may be given by printing the notice 
ctedit card, or by any other means reasonably assuring the receipt 
6 r e o f by the cardholder. An acceptable form of notice must state that 
a b i l ity shall not exceed $50 (or any lesser amount), that notice of loss, 
theft> ^ possible unauthorized use may be given orally or in writing, and the 
^ a n d address of the party to receive the notice. It may include any 
ddltl°nal information which is not inconsistent with the provisions of 
thl8 
8 e c tion. An example of an acceptable notice is as follows: 

-17-
irYou may be liable for the unauthorized use of your credit 
c a r d [. 
or other term which describes the credit device}. You will 
n o t be liable for unauthorized use which occurs after you notify 
name of card issuer or his designee] at [ 
address 
] 
°rally or in writing of loss, theft, or possible unauthorized use. In 
anV case liability shall not exceed [ 
insert--$50 or any lesser amount 
^££-Qther applicable law or under any agreement with the cardholder]." 
(f) Notice to card issuer. For the purposes of this section, 
a c ardholder notifies a card issuer by taking such steps as may be 
tea 
asonably required in the ordinary course of business to provide the 
C a r d issuer with the pertinent information with respect to loss, 
or possible unauthorized use of any credit card, whether or not 
n y p a * t l c u l a r officer, employee, or agent of the card issuer does, 
n f a ct, receive such notice or information. Irrespective of the form 
of 
°tice provided under paragraph (c)(4) of this section, at the 
n of the cardholder, notice may be given to the card issuer or his 
e s i8nee i n person or by telephone or by letter, telegram, radiogram, 
fcabui 
. 
c B r a m , 0 r other written communication which sets forth the pertinent 
f° r t n atio n. 
Notice by mail, telegram, radiogram, cablegram, or other 
e n communication shall be considered given at the time of receipt 
°r> Vh 
Aether or not received, at the expiration of the time ordinarily 
r e d 
transmission, whichever is earlier. 

-9-
f / 
(g) Action to enforce liability. 
In any action by a card 
issuer to enforce liability for the use of a credit card, the burden of 
Proof i s Upon the card issuer to show that the use was authorized or, 
i f the use was unauthorized, then the burden of proof is upon the 
ca*d issuer to show that the conditions of liability for the unauthorized 
U s e of a credit card, as set forth in paragraphs (c) and (d) of this 
Section, have been met. 
(h) Effect on other applicable law or agreement. 
Nothing in 
this section imposes liability upon a cardholder for the unauthorized 
U S e of a credit card in excess of his liability for such use under other 
aPPlicable law or under any agreement with the card issuer. 
* * * * * 
SUPPLEMENT IV 
ocedures and criteria under which any State may apply for exemption 
o f
 SJJant to paragraph (a) of § 226.12 from the provisions of Chapter 2 
card 
T r u t h i n Lending Act prohibiting the issuance of unsolicited credit 
c t *!? a nd limiting cardholder liability for unauthorized use of a 
l t 
card. 
Application--Any State may make application to the Board, 
P U r S U a n t to the terms of this supplement and the Board's Rules of 
C e d u r e (12 CFR 262), for a determination that, under the laws of that 

4 o -
• * 
* 
S t a t e , a class of tUnsactions within that £tate is subject to 
Requirement s substantially similar to those imposed under Chapter 2 of 
t h e A c t ^ prohibiting the issuance of unsolicited credit cards and 
Siting cardholder liability for unauthorized use of a credit card and 
tllat there is adequate provision for enforcement of such requirements. 
Such a p p U c a t l o n shall be made by letter addressed to the Board signed by 
Governor, the Attorney General, or any official of the State having 
resPonsibiliti es under the State laws which are applicable to that 
cla 
8 8 °f transaction 
and supported by the documents specified in 
P a r agraph 
( b ) . 
(b) Supporting Documents—The application shall be accompanied 
by: 
(1) A copy of the full text of the laws of the State which are 
clai 
m e d by the applicant to impose requirements substantially similar to 
h° S e itnPOsed under Chapter 2 of the Act with respect to the class of 
a n 8 actio n s within that State. 
(2) A comparison of each requirement of State law with the 
Co^v. 
E n d i n g requirement of Chapter 2 of the Act, together with reasons 
8uPPort the claim that applicable requirements of State law are 
8 t antian y similar to the applicable requirements imposed under 
ChQp^ 
r 2 of the Act, and to demonstrate that any differences are not 
in 
C° n s iste n t with such requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act and that 
reference t o State law in Supplement IV includes a reference to any 
0 8 which implement State law and formal interpretations thereof. 
A 
Hplem r e f e r e n c e to Chapter 2 of the Act or any section thereof in 
'*tt a ^ n t ™ includes a reference to the implementing provisions of this 
Board's formal interpretations thereof. 

A firj 
1 < O 
-11-
'here are no other effective State laws which are inconsistent with 
8<»ch requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act with respect to that class 
o t transactions. 
(3) A copy of the full text of the laws of the State which 
Provide for enforcement of the State laws referred to in subparagraph (1) 
o f this paragraph. 
(4) A comparison of the provisions of State law with the 
Provlsions of § 108 and § 112 of the Act, together with reasons to 
SuPPort the claim that such State laws provide for: 
ft) Administrative enforcement of the State laws referred to 
tn ^paragraph (1) of this paragraph which is tantamount to the 
Provislons for enforcement under § 108 of the Act and, 
(ii) Criminal liability for willful and knowing violation with 
"Cities substantially similar to those prescribed under § 112 of the 
Act. 
(5) A statement identifying the office designated or to be 
deSi8nated t 0 a d m i n l s t e r t h e state laws referred to in subparagraph (1) 
° f 
Paragraph, and a description of the procedures under which such 
St<lte laWs a r e t Q b e administratively enforced, including administrative 
d e m e n t with respect to Federally chartered creditors .i' The foregoing 
' " " • • c t l o n r ^ h i T S n ^ - P t class of transactions in which a 
S e ^ l l y chartered institution is a creditor shall be treated as a 
C l a s s »f transactions not subject to the exemption 
auch 
Of e'ally chartered creditors shall remain subject to tne requirements 
« U t W < A c t 
administrative enforcement by the appropriate!Federal 
8atlsf 
U n d e r § W 8 of the Act, unless it is established to the 
* U h 
° f t h c Board that appropriate arrangements have been made 
**<M® U C h federal authorities to assure effective enforcement or tne 
rei»ents of state laws with respect to such creditors. 

174 
-16-
statement should include reasons to support the claim that there is 
adequate provision for enforcement of such State laws. 
(c) Public Notice of Filing and Proposed Rule Making--In connection 
with any application which has been filed in accordance with the require-
ments of paragraphs (a) and (b), notice of such filing and proposed rule 
taking will be published by the Board in the Federal Register, and a copy 
such application will be made available for examination by interested 
Persons during business hours at the Board and at the Federal Reserve Bank 
y t each Federal 
Reserve District in which any part of the State of the 
aPPlicant is situated. A period of time will be allowed from the date 
such publication for the Board to receive written comments from interested 
Arsons with respect to that application. 
(d) Exemption from Requirements of Chapter 2--If the Board 
etermines on the basis of the information before it that under the law 
a Sh „ 
°<-ate any class of transactions is subject to requirements substantially 
simj -l 
Aar to those imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act prohibiting the 
S8uance of unsolicited credit cards and limiting the cardholder's liability 
f0r 
^authorized use of a card, and that there is adequate provision for 
etvfor 
eement, the Board will exempt such class of transactions in that 
^ate f 
crom the applicable requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act in the 
nS manner and subject to the following conditions: 
(1) Notice of the exemption will be published in the 
^ e r a l Begister, and the Board will furnish a copy of such notice to 
who made application for such exemption arid to each Federal 
*Uthoritv 
Ly responsible for administrative enforcement of the requirements 
Ch 
hapter 2 of the Act. 

53 
-16-
(2) The appropriate official of any State which receives an 
• y. 
exemption shall inform the Board within 30 days of the occurrence of any 
change in its related law (or regulations). The report of any change 
shall contain copies of the full text of that change together with 
8tatements setting forth the information and opinions with respect to that 
eVi 
n§ e as specified in subparagraphs (2) and (4) of paragraph (b). The 
PPropriate official of any State which has received an exemption shall 
e with the Board from time to time such reports as the Board may require. 
(3) The Board will inform the appropriate official of any State 
hich receives an exemption of any subsequent amendments to the applicable 
Revisions of Chapter 2 of the Act (including the implementing provisions 
of t. . 
s Part and the Board's formal interpretations) which might call for 
mp-ndment of State law, regulations, or formal interpretations. 
v0 f\ :• 
(e) Adverse Determination--(1) If after publication of notice 
the Federal Register as provided under paragraph (d) the Board finds 
the basis of the information before it that it cannot make any favorable 
termination in connection with the application, the Board will notify 
appropriate State official of the facts upon which such findings are 
ba8ed a . 
ar»d shall afford that State a reasonable opportunity to demonstrate 
aehieve compliance. 
• o . 
(2) If, after having afforded the State such opportunity to 
°nstrate or achieve compliance, the Board finds on the basis of the 
Nation before it that it still cannot make any favorable determination 

54 
-16-
i n connection with the application, the Board will publish in the 
Register a notice of its decision with respect to such application 
and will furnish a copy of such notice to the official who made appli-
cation for such exemption. 
(f) Revocation of Exemption--(1) The Board reserves the 
r*ght to revoke any exemption if at any time it determines that the State 
la 
• 
w does not in fact impose requirements which are substantially similar 
to those imposed under Chapter 2 of the Act or that there is not in 
f a c t adequate provision for enforcement. 
(2) Before revoking any State exemption, the Board will notify 
t h e appropriate State official of the facts or conduct which in the 
•°n cf the Board warrant such revocation and shall afford that 
Stat 
G such opportunity as the Board deems appropriate in the circumstances 
0 demonstrate or achieve compliance. 
(3) If, after having been afforded the opportunity to demonstrate 
Qchieve compliance, the Board determines that the State has not done 
8o> 
tice of the Board's intention to revoke such exemption shall be 
"lshed as a notice of proposed rule making in the Federal Register. 
A pgj.^ 
of time will be allowed from the date of such publication for the 
Board t o 
receive written comments from interested persons with respect 
to 
e Proposed rule making. 
(4) In the event of revocation of such exemption, notice of 
8 U c h revo 
°cation shall be published by the Board in the Federal Register, 
^ 
a CoPy of such notice shall also be furnished to the appropriate 

State official and to the Federal authorities responsible for enforcement 
0 requirements of Chapter 2 of the Act, and the class of transactions 
affected within that State shall then be subject to the requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Act and subject to administrative enforcement as provided 
Under § 108 of the Act. 
' 'J •. 
2a. The amendments implement Title V of an Act (Public Law 
"508) dealing with Bank Records and Foreign Transactions; Credit Cards; 
a n d Consumer Credit Reporting. Title V is an amendment to the Truth in-
Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1601). It prohibits the issuance of unsolicited 
redit cards and limits cardholder liability for unauthorized use to $50. 
n . °n 226.1 Authority, scope, purpose, etc. of the Regulation has been 
mended to indicate the addition of the new credit card provisions. 
ction 226.12 specifies that States may apply for an exemption from the 
Federal l 
law for any class of transactions which is subject to substantially 
requirements under State law where there is adequate provision for 
cement. The procedures and criteria for exemption are set forth in 
SuPplement IV. Exemptions from the provisions of Chapter 2 of the 
be 
of Chapter 2. 
Act relaM 
8 to issuance of credit cards and cardholder liability will 
and apart from exemptions from the disclosure and rescission 
Provi8ions 
The credit card provisions dealing with issuance and liability 
e n e w § 226.13. The statutory provisions have been incorporated 
Into the 
e amendment so that it may be used by affected parties as a single 
s°urce of fh requirements of both Title V and the Regulation. 

178 
-16-
Section 226.13(a)(6) which defines a "credit card" specifies 
that it is a "single device existing for the purpose of being used from 
time to time upon presentation to obtain money, property, labor or 
8ervices on credit." The definition is designed to make it clear that 
i .. : ^ 
• f • 
; t 
aPplications, 
notes, checks, drafts, gift certificates and similar 
devices which cannot be used from time to time are not within the 
definition. Section 226.13(b)(2) has been clarified to permit the 
renewal or substitution of a credit card "whether such card is issued 
/ 
... 
. . 
,/v 
, 
.. . . ,, ' , ^ , , . 
ky the same or a successor card issuer." The proposed regulations issued 
f°r comment on November 24, 1970, restricted the method which must be 
Provided by the card issuer for identification of the card user to 
signature, photograph or fingerprint on the credit card or by electronic 
mechanical confirmation." Section 226.13(d) has been modified 
indicate that these are examples of acceptable identification methods 
u t that others may be sufficient. 
Section 226.13(e) has been expanded to generally indicate the 
inf 
°rmation which the card issuer must provide the cardholder when he 
s nim of his potential liability as required in order to hold 
cardholder liable for unauthorized use. The addition emphasizes 
that th 
G notice form set forth in the provision need not be used, and that 
creditor may draft his own notice as long as it contains the required 
r m a t i o n . 
Section 226.13(c)(3) provides that in order to recover for 
°rized use, the card issuer must have provided the notice to the 
Catdholder on the credit card or within the proceeding two years. Section 
• u 
or 

J». »' * > 
-17-
13(f) provides that cardholder notice of loss, theft or possible 
^authorized use "by mail, telegram, radiogram, cablegram, or other written 
communication shall be considered given at the time of receipt or, whether 
not received, at the expiration of the time ordinarily required for 
transmission, whichever is the earlier." The two year record retention 
requirement contained in the proposal issued for comment has been deleted. 
b. The amendment to § 226.12, and Supplement IV were 
a<*opted by the Board without following the procedures of section 553 
o f Title V, United States Code, relating to notice, public participation, 
deferred effective date. The substance of both had been previously 
Polished for comment in connection with the issuance of Supplement II 
ealing with exemption from disclosure and rescission provisions of the 
in Lending Act. In view of this, such procedures would result in 
delav f-L. 
> cnat would serve no useful purpose. 
The amendment to § 226.1 was also adopted without following these 
Cedures. Since this amendment only indicates the presence of the 
credit 
card provisions in the Regulation, it involves no change in a 
antive rule and further delay would serve no useful purpose. 
The provisions of § 226.13 were adopted after consideration of 
« u t e l 
ant material, including communications from interested persons. 
®ffecM 
ctive date of the amendment was deferred for less than the 30-day 
cterred to in section 553(d) of Title V, United States Code to 
a c t i v e on January 25, 1971. In view of the fact that all 

mm 
180: 
/ 
-18-
I^licable statutory provisions will be in effect on January 25, 1971, 
J?ferral beyond that date would create uncertainties as to the require-
ments during the interim period. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 19, 1971. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAT. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
1 A 

BDARD • F GDVERNDRS 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
181: 
Item No. 7 
1/19/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 19, 1971 
Mr. C. William Fischer 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Fischer: 
Your Legislative Referral Memorandum of January 11, 
1971, asked for the Board's views on a draft bill relating to the 
Export-Import Bank. 
The Board continues to recommend against enactment 
those provisions of the bill that would exclude the Bank's receipts 
and disbursements from the totals of the budget of the U. S. 
Government and exempt them from any annual expenditure and 
ftet lending limitations imposed on the budget. 
These provisions 
would make possible an expansion of Export-Import Bank operations 
t>V freeing them from budget restraints imposed on other Federal 
prog 
rams. 
Such restraints are designed to limit the demands of 
the Government on the real resources of the economy and to enable 
the Congress and the Administration to establish priorities among 
Federal programs, so that the maximum benefit is derived from 
the total outlays of the Government. 
If this proposal is to have any effect, it will be to allow 
Export-Import Bank outlays to exceed those that it would make 
U nder present restraints. 
As a result, total Federal outlays 
W lH rise without being reflected in the budget totals, or the Bank's 
I ncreased outlays will cause a reduction in other Federal programs 
that would otherwise have been accorded a higher priority. 

Mr. C. William Fischer 
2-
The Board sees no reason to object to the provisions of 
the bill extending the life of the Bank and raising its program 
authorizations. 
However, if the Bank's operations are sufficiently-
different from those of other Federal agencies to exclude them 
from the budget process, it may be that the best answer lies in 
converting the Bank to a private institution, as has been done with 
the Federal National Mortgage Association. 
Such a solution would 
provide the Bank with the flexibility it seeks, without doing violence, 
as would the present proposal, to the principles of the unified budget, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
,U 

A an 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
I t e m No. 8 
1/19/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
£Og£lDENTIAL (FR) 
January 19, 1971 
"ayes - New Y 0rk 
Heflin - Richmond 
.Chicago 
Francis - St. Louis 
San Francisco 
This is with reference to possible Federal Reserve program of matched 
''. "L* 
Sa^e~Purchase transactions with member banks to help moderate Euro-dollar 
repayments, as outlined in staff memorandum dated January 11, 1971, which 
** 
'mittee discussed on preliminary basis at meeting on January 12. 
Considering the many factors that must be taken into account before 
4i V 
eci c-t rt- 
L* 
b I O n can be made as to whether such a program should be implemented, 
' '^tVci f ti 
the need to coordinate plans and operations with other Government 
a" » 
^RenciA • 
i e s interested in problem, Chairman Burns proposes the following 
' thre 
eG-stage approach to decision-making on this matter: 
atage 1; Determination as to whether a majority of Committee agrees 
in 
a 
Principle with proposed' amendment of continuing authority directive as 
M r&bMikl 
U S e f u l contingency plan, to be acted on finally at a subsequent time if 
Gmed necessary, 
if this approach seems to be a likely one to Committee, 
staff 
continue working on it. In this connection, the draft amendment 
wQ * i.' {> ?' ^ 
1G directive attached to staff memorandum of January 11 has been further 
lnc'd, and is shown in present draft form at end of this telegram along 
wlth P 
' 
comments on substantive changes from previous draft. 
i 
S ta 
S G 2: 
(xf determination under stage 1 is favorable.) Formal vote 
bV FOMc t 
0 adopt such an amendment to continuing authority directive, 

T E L E G R A M 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
- 2 -
thereby authorizing Subcommittee named in amendment to proceed if and as 
needed with actual operations. Presumably Chairman will call for this 
form 
^ a l Committee vote if and when developments make it desirable for System 
184: 
to b G in a position to undertake promptly such operations. 
If circumstances 
,t 
riUl-t) formal vote will be called for only at or after a meeting at which 
OSSwU'J 
"^Uttee has had full opportunity to discuss matter. 
Stage 3: 
I f circumstances require, action by Subcommittee to instruct 
Acc • 
-ount Manager to undertake actual operations, within limits established 
y amendment to directive, and with such specific instructions from 
S U}) p>\mtv» . 
ommittee as appear desirable, 
in Chairman Burns' judgment, action under stage 1 is advisable now 
for 
Purposes of orderly planning and coordination with other agencies. 
Mr. s , ornon and I will be telephoning you later today or tomorrow to provide 
further « 
r background on procedure and substance. Please advise following 
telephone conversation whether or not you would agree in principle, 
as r 
kasis for contingency planning, to an amendment of continuing authority 
1 V G by the addition of a paragraph 4 along the following lines: 
"4. For the purpose of tempering the impact of Euro-dollar move-
0 n the United States balance of payments, the Committee authorizes and 
Q (-g Vl 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, for the System Open Market 
directi 
dire 
Acc°unt 
t 
j lo enter into special agreements with member banks ('paragraph 4 
a g r Gementq^ 
) providing for the sale of U.S. Government securities by the 
ftesw 
ank to the member bank on a cash or regular delivery basis, and 

the purchase by the Reserve Bank from the member bank of the same 
nt of the same issues of securities within a specified period, subject 
tie foil .owing conditions: 
"A. A member bank shall be eligible to buy and sell 
securities under paragraph 4 agreements in an amount equal 
to a specified percentage of its (1) daily average deposits 
subject to § 204.5(c) of Federal Reserve Regulation D, 
(2) daily average total of the net balances and assets 
described in § 213.7(a)(1) and (2) (reduced by its daily 
average deposits subject to § 204.5(c)), and (3) foreign 
brandies' daily average holdings of securities under para-
graph 4 agreements and the Export Import Bank program 
» • 
announced January 15, 1971, each for the latest computation 
••, * V 
period as described in the specified sections. The percentage, 
W c o r ^ c : II^OM^ : • .fewto- 
< i.*^. 
ioi • 
• x 
which shall be the same for all member banks, shall be 
specified from time to time by the Committee, or on behalf 
• I 
4 
>' ' vi 1 . 
': 
. . 
of the Committee by a Subcommittee consisting of the 
d * • . 
• 
Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Committee and the 
Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors (or in the absence 
v-- >i , i • < 
of the Chairman or of the Vice Chairman of the Board of 
Governors the members of the Board designated by the 
Chairman as alternates, and in the absence of the Vice 
Chairman of the Committee his alternate). 

Co 
a i. 
-4- 
1 8 6 
"B. The aggregate amount of securities held by member 
banks under paragraph 4 agreements shall not excced $2 billion 
at any time. 
"C. Paragraph 4 agreements,vhich shall be non-transferable, 
shall be arranged so as to provide a net yield to the member bank 
closely related to the current market rate on Euro-dollar deposits 
of comparable maturity. 
"D. Within the limitations set forth above, the terms of 
paragraph 4 agreements, and the timing and size of offerings 
of securities under such agreements, shall be subject to such 
directions as may be issued from time to time by the Committee, 
or on behalf of the Committee by the Subcommittee referred to 
in 4A above." 
In addition to clarifying changes, text given above incorporates 
-owing substantive changes from earlier draft: 
Introductory language: Next-to-last clause calls for repurchase 
securities "within a specified period" rather than "within (blank) 
Weeks.«. 
,r 
at-ati- still recommends a 4-week maturity, once introductory 
i**iod i s 
the 
tor 
passed; this change is suggested to allow for the introduc-
Pcriod, and other deviations from 4-week maturity that Subcommittee 
iPo'' 
^sibly fincj desirable on technical grounds. 
• 4A: Technical changes have been made to conform with 
Proposed amendments to Board regulations. 

-5- 
18 
4B: Limit on aggregate amount of security holdings 
(left blank in previous draft) has been written as $2 billion. Staff 
memo had recommended an initial authorization of $1-1/4 billion, but 
now believes it would be desirable to permit somewhat greater leeway, 
t o reduce possible need for later amendments to increase leeway. 
4C: Text now calls for net yield to member bank "closely 
related to the current market rate on Euro-dollar deposits of comparable 
maturity"; previous draft had called for net yield "not more than (blank) 
r» 
asis points in excess of current market rate on one-month Euro-dollar 
dePosits." Under previous language, staff had contemplated specifying a 
maximum spread of perhaps 5/8 point, .although it recommended beginning 
actual operations with a spread of 1/8 point. Present judgment is that it 
V7°Uld n o t b e desirable to indicate publicly how large a spread the System 
l s willing to allow, particularly if there is found to be no need to go as 
kigh as 5/8 point. Change from "one-month" to "comparable" maturity is 
^Sgcsted i n view of possibility that some agreements may be for maturities 
0 t h er than 4 weeks. 
HOLLAND 
