MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 12, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 12, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 3:45 p.m. 
|
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

2509 
8/12/69 
-2-
First Empire State Corporation. On June 25, 1969, the Board 
voted to approve the application of First Empire State Corporation, 
Buffalo, New York, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of the following four banks located in the State of New York: 
Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, Buffalo; First Trust & Deposit 
Company, Syracuse; a new national bank into which would be merged 
National Commercial Bank and Trust Company, Albany; and a new national 
bank into which would be merged First National Bank in Yonkers. 
Chair-
man Martin and Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel had voted in favor 
°f the application; Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill had voted 
for denial. On July 24, at the request of Governor Maisel, the Board 
voted to reconsider the application. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board denied the appli-
cation, Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting. 
It was understood that documents to implement this decision would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement 
or statements also would be prepared. 
Security Financial Services. On July 17, 1969, the Board con-
sidered the application of Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, 
Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
of Security First National Bank of Sheboygan and South-West State Bank, 
also of Sheboygan. Action was deferred because tentative views of mem-
bers of the Board appeared to be equally divided, and also to permit 

8/12/69 
-3-
exploration of questions raised regarding common shareholders of the 
two banks. Supplemental information on the latter point was provided by 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation in a memorandum dated 
August 11. The Division continued to recommend approval. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved, 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood 
that documents to implement this decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement or statements also 
would be prepared. 
Euro-dollar regulations. At its meeting on August 7, 1969, the 
Board reached tentative majority agreement upon the principal issues 
involved in proposed amendments to Regulation M, Foreign Activities of 
National Banks, and Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, designed to 
moderate flows of Euro-dollars. Supplementary documentation included 
a memorandum dated August 11 from the staff and a draft press release. 
Discussion at today's meeting resulted in resolution of relatively 
minor points that had remained at issue. However, Governors Mitchell 
and Daane objected to adoption of the amendments because they felt that 
the flows were attributable to tight monetary policy in the United States 
rather than to the Euro-dollar mechanism and that such flows would occur 
despite the regulation. Furthermore, in the absence of any evidence that 
fc
he Euro-dollar flow was weakening over-all monetary policy, they objected 

8/12/69 
-4-
to regulating unnecessarily one of the nondeposit sources of funds for 
banks. 
The amendments were then approved, effective September 4, 1969; 
Governors Mitchell and Daane dissented from this action. The press 
release announcing the Board's action was also approved. Copies of the 
amendments and the press release are attached under Item No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
F
°r itr.mediate rel 
Item No. 1 
8/12/69 
ease. 
August 13, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
G
stablished a 10 per cent marginal reserve requirement on certain 
foreign borrowings, primarily Euro-dollars, by member banks and on the 
sale of assets to their foreign branches. The new requirement must be 
m e t
 by affected banks beginning the week of October 16, based on the 
ln
i-tial four-week computation period beginning September 4. 
Purpose of the action is to moderate the flow of foreign funds 
between U.S. banks and their foreign branches and also between U.S. and 
foreign banks by removing a special advantage to member banks that have 
u
$ed Euro-dollars not subject to reserve requirements to adjust to do-
mestic credit restraint. The Board noted that liabilities of U.S. banks 
t o
 their foreign branches have more than doubled since the beginning of 
this year, reaching a record $14.6 billion during the week ending July 30. 
The amendments approved by the Board to its Regulation M(which 
governs the foreign activities of member banks) and Regulation D(which 
governs reserves of member banks) are basically the same as those proposed 
°n June 26. Several modifications, primarily to reduce potential in-
iquities and to clarify the original proposal, were made by the Board 
after reviewing the more than 50 letters of comment received. 
Amendments to Regulation M will: 
1. Establish a 10 per cent reserve requirement on net borrowings 
°f member banks from their foreign branches to the extent these borrowings 
e
*ceed the daily average amounts outstanding in the four weeks ending 

1.3 
-2-
May 28, 1969. This marginal requirement will also apply to assets 
acquired by foreign branches from U.S. head offices of banks except for 
assets representing credits extended by head offices to nonresidents 
after June 26. To reduce potential inequities the Board established a 
minimum base, the same as proposed in June, equal to 3 per cent of de-
posits subject to reserve requirements for any bank with a foreign branch 
regardless of its previous use of Euro-dollars. 
2. Establish a 10 per cent reserve requirement on branch loans 
to U.S. residents to the extent such loans exceed either the amount out-
standing on June 25 or June 26, 1969, or the daily average amounts out-
standing in the four weeks ending May 28, 1969. Choice of the base would 
be at the option of the member bank. This amendment includes three ex-
emptions as follows: 
It does not apply to any foreign branch with $5 
million or less in credit outstanding to U.S. residents; credit extended 
to enable a borrower to comply with requirements of the Office of Foreign 
Direct Investments, Department of Commerce; and credit extended under 
lending commitments entered into before June 27, 1969. 
An amendment to Regulation D establishes a 10 per cent reserve 
requirement on borrowings by member banks from foreign banks with one 
exception: 
only a 3 per cent reserve is required against such deposits 
that do not exceed 4 per cent of a member bank's daily average deposits 
subject to reserve requirements. This latter provision is designed to 
reduce inequities for banks without foreign branches which would have no 
reserve-free base under the Regulation M amendments. 

i.4 
-3-
The reserve-free base under the amendment establishing a 
reserve requirement on borrowings of U.S. banks from their foreign 
branches will be reduced when and to the extent that the liabilities 
of any bank to its foreign branches drop below the original base during 
any period used to compute the reserve requirement. 
The action is not intended to interfere with the normal 
operations of U.S. banks or U.S. corporations in financing business 
abroad. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane dissented from this action. 
A copy of the amendments is attached. 
-0-

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs, D,M] 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 213--FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
Reserves Against Certain Foreign Deposits 
1. Effective September 4, 1969, the following amendments are 
hereby adopted: 
a. Section 204.1(b) is amended to read as follows: 
' 
(b) Time deposits. - The term "time deposits" means 
"time certificates of deposit," "time deposits, open account," and 
"savings deposits," as defined below; except that for the purposes of 
§ 204.5(c), "time deposits" shall have the meaning set forth therein. 
b. Section 204.1(f) is amended to read as follows: 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and 
other instruments. For the purposes of this part, the terra "deposits" 
shall be deemed to include any promissory note, acknowledgment of 
advance, due bill, or similar instrument that is issued by a member 
bank principally as a means of obtaining funds to be used in its bank-
ing business, except any such instrument (1) that is issued to a 

- 2 -
, 
5a/ 
domestic banking office of another b a n k , — 
(2) that evidences an 
indebtedness arising from a transfer of direct obligations of, or 
obligations that are fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, 
the United States or any agency thereof (other than a part interest 
in such obligations) that the bank is obligated to repurchase, or 
(3) that has an original maturity of more than 2 years and states 
expressly that it is subordinated to the claims of depositors. This 
paragraph shall not, however, affect (i) any instrument issued before 
June 27, 3.960, or (ii) any instrument that evidences an indebtedness 
arising from a transfer of assets under repurchase agreement issued 
before July 25, 1S69, or (iii) until August 28, 1969, any instrument 
that evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of assets under 
repurchase agreement issued, renewed, or extended oft or after July 25, 
1969, or (iv) any instrument issued to a foreign office of another bank 
before June 27, 1969. 
c. Section 204.5(a) is amended by changing "paragraph (b) 
of this section," to read "paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section,", 
d. The following paragraph is added to £ 204.5: 
(c) Reserve percentages a g a i n s t certain deposits by 
foreign banking offices. Deposits represented by promissory notes, 
5a/ I.e., any banking office in any State of the United States or the 
District of Columbia of a bank organized under domestic or foreign law. 

acknowledgments of advance, due bills, or similar obligations described 
, 
8/ 
in § 204.1(f) to foreign offices of other banks~ shall not be subject 
to paragraph (a) of this section or to § 204.3(a)(1) and (2); but 
during each week of the four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, 
and during each week of each successive four-week ("maintenance") 
Period, a member bank shall maintain with the Reserve Bank of its 
district a daily average balance equal to 10 per cent of the daily average 
amount of such deposits during the four-week ("computation") period 
ending on the Wednesday fifteen days before the beginning of the main-
tenance period; except that only 3 per cent need be so maintained 
9/ 
against such deposits which are time deposits— aggregating not more 
than 4 per cent of such member bank's daily average deposits subject to 
paragraph (a) of this section during the computation period. An excess 
deficiency in reserves in any week of a maintenance period under 
this paragraph shall be subject to § 204.3(a)(3), as-if computed under 
§ 204.3(a)(2), and deficiencies under this paragraph shall be subject 
to § 204.3(b).—
1 f 
I.e., offices of other banks not. covered by § 204,1 (f)(1)* 
SJ For the purposes of this paragraph, "time deposits" means any deposit 
having a maturity of one day or more, 
10/ The term "computation period" in § 204.3(a)(3) and (b) shall, for 
this purpose, be deemed to refer to each week of a maintenance period 
under this paragraph. 

J 2 S I 8 
- 4 -
e . The following new section is added to Part 213: 
§ 213,7 Reserves against foreign branch deposits. 
(
a
) 
Transactions with parent bank. During each week 
of the four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, and during each 
week of each successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member bank 
having one or more foreign branches shall maintain with the Reserve 
Bank of its district, as a reserve against its foreign branch deposits, 
a daily average balance equal to 10 per cent of the amount by which 
the daily average total of 
• - -Ki V;'-. 
(1) net balances due from its domestic offices 
to such branches, and 
(2) assets (including participations) held by such 
• ' 
1 ' 
branches which were acquired, from its domestic 
r r . 
u 
offices, 
during the four-week ("computation") period ending on the Wednesday 
fifteen days before the beginning of the maintenance period, exceeds 
the greater of 
8/ 
(i) the corresponding daily average total*" for 
either the four-week period ending May 28, 1969 
« 
77 
Excluding (1) assets so held on June 26, 1969 representing credit 
extended to persons not residents of the United States and (2) credit 
Extended or renewed by a domestic office after June 26, 1969 to persons 
not residents of the United States to the extent such credit was not 
extended in order to replace credit outstanding on that date which was 
Paid prior to its original maturity (see definition of United States 
resident in footnote 9). 
8/ 
Excluding assets representing credit extended to persons not 
residents of the United States. 

or (except as the Board may otherwise 
specify) any computation period beginning 
on or after September 4, 1969, whichever 
is least, or 
(ii) 3 per cent of the member bank's daily 
average deposits subject to 5 204.5(a) of 
this chapter (Regulation D) during the -computa-
tion period: 
Provided t That the applicable base computed under (i) or (ii) shall 
be reduced by the daily average amount of any deposits of the member 
bank subject to 5204.5(c) of this chapter (Regulation D) during the 
computation period, 
(b) Credit extended to United States residents. During 
e
ach week of the four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, and during 
Gach week of each successive four-week maintenance period, a member 
-
bank having one or more foreign branches shall maintain with the Reserve 
Bank of its district, as a reserve against its foreign branch deposits, 
a daily average balance equal to 10 per cent of the amount by which 
daily average credit outstanding from such branches to United States 

-6-
residents'" 
(other than assets acquired and net balances due from its 
domestic offices), during the four-week computation period ending on 
the Wednesday fifteen days before the beginning of the maintenance 
period, exceeds either the corresponding daily average total during the 
four-week period ending May 28, 1969 or the total outstanding on 
June 25 or 26, 1969: Provided, lhat this paragraph does not apply to 
credit extended (1) by a foreign branch which at no time during the 
9/ 
computation period had credit outstanding to United States residents
-
exceeding $5 million, (2) to enable the borrower to comply with 
requirements of the Office of Foreign Direct Investments, Department 
of C o m m e r c e o r (3) under binding commitments entered into before 
June 27, 1969. 
. . • i j 
• : .m : b Hike , 
. . 
b e n 
9/ I.e., (a) any individual residing (at the time the credit is 
extended) in any State of the United States or the District of Columbia; 
(b) any corporation, partnership, association or other entity organized 
therein ("domestic corporation"); and (c) any branch- or office located 
therein of any other entity wherever organized. Credit extended to a 
foreign branch, office, subsidiary, affiliate or other foreign estab-
lishment. ("foreign affiliate") controlled by one or more such domestic 
corporations will not be deemed to be credit 
extended to a United 
States resident if the proceeds will be used in its foreign business 
or that of other foreign affiliates of the controlling domestic 
corporation(s). 
10/ The branch may in good faith rely on the borrower's certification 
that the funds will be so used. 
• 
;/-l> 
(']•}• 
by c^-rp^p b.K-kii' itrcc\-.h:rxk-i. 
th-nl acc. uov ' 
. • <- 
-.KM 
: 1 .. - , 
.
.
. 
b* 
Ui vj.'ii-/ £. i;.': a? cvtr-^riC^. 
^ ih-i .-'o^fd h-sj) t^r. or nova ted 
' • • 
uv'js 
ia 
^n^mk'c-at^ 
cs4*. ••'Ttoo ciacipul 
V ~ 1 Jv, yzv*
s
 x 
' t» -u: * 
ill' ?it 
• 

Aw Ot 
- 7 -
2a. By notice of proposed rule making dated June 26, 1969 
(Federal Register of July 3, 1969, 34 F.R. 11214), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to amend 55 204.1(f)(1) and 204.5 of this chapter (Regulation D) 
and to add a new § 213.7 to Part 213 of this chapter (Regulation M) in 
order to remove a special advantage to member banks of using foreign 
funds (primarily Euro-dollars) for adjustment to domestic credit re-
straint. Ihe general purpose of such amendments as proposed was to 
Establish a 10 pel cent reserve requirement against deposits to the 
extent of -
(1) borrowings by domestic offices of member banks from their 
foreign branches and assets of foreign branches acquired from domestic 
offices of the parent member banks, to the extent such borrowings and 
assets exceed either the daily average amounts outstanding in the 
four weeks ending May 28, 1969 or 3 per cent of deposits subject to 
reserve requirements; 
(2) credit extended by foreign branches of member banks to 
United States residents, to the extent such credits exceed those in a 
base period defined as either the amount outstanding on June 2.5, 1969, 
or the daily average amount outstanding in the four weeks ending 
May 28, 1969; and 
(3) borrowings by member banks from banks abroad that are not 
denominated as deposits. 
b . In view of the comments received, the Board has incorporated 
Various changes in these amendments as adopted. The principal sub-
stantive changes are as follows: 

(1) The amendment to § 204.1(f)(1) has been modified to make 
clear that this exemption applies only to a domestic banking office of 
another bank; and a footnote has been added to clarify that "domestic" 
in this context means any banking office in any State of the United 
States or the District of Columbia of a bank organized under domestic 
or foreign law. Also, an exemption is provided in § 204.1(f) for 
obligations issued to a foreign office of another bank before June 27, 
1969, 
(2) The reserve requirement in 5 204.5(c) on borrowings from 
foreign banks has been conformed to the foreign branch reserve require-
ments in Regulation M with respect to the time periods for computing 
and maintaining such reserves. A provision has been added to 5 204.5(c) 
to the effect that borrowings from foreign banks having maturities of 
one day or more will be subject to a reduced reserve requirement of 
3 per cent (rather than 10 per cent), up to an amount of such "time" 
borrowings equal to 4 per cent of the member bank's deposits subject 
to reserve requirements. Time borrowings above this base (and all 
borrowings actually payable on demand) from foreign banks would be 
subject to the 10 per cent requirement. Also, provision has been made 
in § 204.5(c) for dealing with reserve deficiencies under that paragraph. 
(3) A footnote has been added to 5 213.7(a) which excludes 
from the 10 per cent reserve requirement on assets sold to foreign 
branches (i) any assets held by foreign branches on June 26, 1969 
representing credit extended to nonresidents of the United States, and 

(ii) credit extended or renewed by domestic offices of a member bank 
after June 26, 1909 to nonresidents of the United States, except to 
the extent such credit was extended in order to replace credit outstand-
ing on that date which was paid prior to its maturity. Since no reserve 
requirement applies to foreign credits acquired from domestic offices 
which were held on June 26, 1969 by foreign branches or to foreign 
credits extended or renewed after that date, foreign credits are also 
excluded in computing a member bank's base under § 213.7(a). It is 
also provided that any borrowings from foreign banks under § 204.5(c) 
shall operate to reduce the reserve-free base available on borrowings 
from foreign branches under 5 213.7(a). 
(4) Section 213.7(b) has been modified to exempt borrowings 
to meet the requirements of the Office of Foreign Direct Investments, 
Department of Commerce, and borrowings under commitments entered into 
before June 27, 1969, from the 10 per cent reserve requirement appli-
cable to foreign branch credit to United States residents. Also, a 
footnote defines "United States resident" to include any individual 
residing in any State or the District of Columbia, any corporation or 
other entity organized therein, and any domestic office of a foreign 
company. It is also made clear that credit extended to foreign offices 
or affiliates of domestic companies will not be treated as credit to 
United States residents if the funds vill be .uocd in the foreign business 
of the borrower or another foreign affiliate of the domestic company. 

-10-
3 . The effective date of the amendment was deferred for 
less than the 30-day period referred to in section 553(d) of title 5, 
United States Code, because the Board found that the general credit 
situation and the public interest compelled it to make the action 
effective no later than September 4, 1969, 
Approved August 12, 1969. 
>UM/. 
.> J a j.'d ot Lwv v'r"; of 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
