609 
Minutes for 
September 4, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Cha i rma n 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Martin 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
. 
. 
/y 
ki 

SO 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 4, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
•Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Bradshaw, Economist, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Patman questionnaire (Item No. 1). 
In letters of July 9, 1968, 
to each member of the Board and each Reserve Bank President, Chairman 
Patman of the House Banking and Currency Committee reported plans of 
the Subcommittee on Domestic Finance to hold hearings later this year 
on H.R. 11, a bill relating to the Federal Reserve structure and func-
tions, and requested views by the first of September on a number of 
questions pertaining to monetary policy guidelines and open market 
operations, aspects of the structure of the Federal Reserve System, 
and recent monetary developments. 

3373 
9/4/68 
-2-
It had been determined that it would be desirable to prepare 
a single reply to the questionnaire on behalf of the Federal Reserve 
System, with the understanding that individual Board members or Reserve 
Bank Presidents, if they so desired, could submit individual papers on 
any point. Consequently, the task of drafting answers to the various 
questions had been assigned to a joint Board-Reserve Bank task group, 
and draft answers had subsequently been distributed for review. 
With a memorandum dated August 30, 1968, Mr. Brill submitted 
a
 set of answers that had been revised to take account of comments 
received from Board members and Reserve Bank Presidents. Also sub-
mitted was a proposed letter of transmittal from Chairman Martin to 
Congressman Patman. 
The transmittal letter pointed out that most of 
the issues involved in the questions had been raised on previous 
occasions and had been carefully reviewed within the System. 
Therefore, 
the Board members and Reserve Bank Presidents had concluded that for 
the purpose of the present review, and because of the time limit pre-
scribed, it would be suitable to join in submitting a single document. 
While the answers reflected views held generally by the members of the 
Board and the Presidents, there might be different shadings of view 
and emphasis on some points, and perhaps some of those joining in the 
common reply would wish to communicate separately on such points. 
Mr. Brill now reported that First Vice President Treiber of 
the New York Reserve Bank had advised that none of the Presidents 
expected to submit supplementary statements. 

O O c - l / 
9/4/68 
-3-
In view of this advice, and since it was indicated that none 
of the Board members wished to submit supplementary statements, it was 
agreed that the transmittal letter would be modified to state that the 
answers reflected views generally held by the members of the Board and 
the Presidents, although understandably some of them might have differ-
ent shadings of view and emphasis on some points. 
Turning to the answers to the questions, Mr. Brill stated that 
earlier comments by Board members and Presidents had been integrated 
into the original draft by members of the staff group working on the 
matter. He understood, however, that members of the Board had some 
further comments and suggestions. 
The ensuing discussion elicited a number of suggestions for 
editorial changes, and it was understood that these and any others 
submitted by Board members to Mr. Brill would be taken into account. 
There were also some comments by Board members that went somewhat 
beyond the editorial area. 
These were reviewed, and it was understood 
that they likewise would be taken into account by the staff against 
the background of the discussion of them at this meeting. 
The draft answers were then referred back to Mr. Brill for 
suitable modification and for negotiation with Mr. Treiber to deter-
mine whether it appeared that the changes could be made without further 
reference to the Reserve Bank Presidents. 
It was understood that if 
the negotiation with Mr. Treiber proved successful the answers to the 

9/4/68 
- 4 -
questionnaire need not be brought back to the Board and could go 
forward to Chairman Patman. 
Secretary's Note: 
At a subsequent Board 
meeting, Mr. Brill reported that Mr. Treiber 
had agreed that the changes made in the pro-
posed answers were not of such character that 
further review by the Reserve Bank Presidents 
would be required. Attached to these minutes 
as Item No. 1 is a copy of the transmittal 
letter sent to Chairman Patman. A copy of 
the answers to the questionnaire, as enclosed 
with the transmittal letter, has been placed 
in the Board's files. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
International situation. Mr. Solomon and other representa-
tives of the Division of International Finance briefed the Board on 
developments in international financial markets attributable to specu-
lation engendered by rumors of a revaluation of the German mark, includ 
ing steps that had been taken by the German Federal Bank in the circum-
stances. 
It was understood that the staff would continue to keep the 
Board informed of developments, including any proposals that might be 
made that would directly affect the operations of the Federal Reserve 
System, such as the terms of the reciprocal currency arrangement 
between the Federal Reserve and the German Federal Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

. 'All JVfKVx ' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
o r T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WAS H I NOTO N 
Item No 
9/4/68 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
September 9, 1968 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
.20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Each of the members of the Board of Governors and each 
°f the Presidents of the Reserve Banks has received your letter 
of July 9, 1968 regarding plans of the Subcommittee on Domestic 
Finance to hold hearings on H. R. 11 later this year, and re-
questing views by September 1st on certain questions pertaining 
to monetary policy guidelines and open market operations, some 
aspects of the structure of the Federal Reserve System, and 
recent monetary developments. 
The members of the Board and the Reserve Bank Presidents 
have each considered your questions. As you know, most of these 
issues have been raised on previous occasions and have been care-
fully reviewed within the System. The members of the Board and 
Reserve Bank Presidents concluded that for the present review 
and in view of the time limit prescribed it would be suitable 
to join in submitting to you a single document, a copy of which 
is enclosed. The enclosed answers reflect the views generally 
held by the members of the Board and the Presidents, although 
understandably some of us may have different shadings of view 
and emphasis on some points. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) W m . McC. Martin, Jr 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 
