PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 25, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 5 > H 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 25, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma i s e1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Bouck, Consultant 
Other appropriate staff members also attended. 
Pan American Bancshares. A draft of an order reflecting the 
Board's approval on June 16, 1970, of the application of Pan American 
Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Citizens National 
Bank of Orlando had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order was authorized; a copy of the document, 
as issued, is attached as Item No. 1. 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

6/25/10 
-2-
Commercial Bancorp. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated June 22, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Commercial 
Bancorp, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of The First State 
Bank of Lantana. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Southeast Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated June 18, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with applications of South-
east Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Citizens 
Bank of Brevard, Melbourne; First National Bank of Satellite Beach, 
Satellite Beach; First National Bank of Eau Gallie, Melbourne; and 
Indialantic Beach Bank, Indialantic. 
The Reserve Bank and the Board's 
staff recommended approval of the first two applications, but denial 
of the other two. 
Unanimous approval was given to the applications relating to 
Citizens Bank of Brevard and First National Bank of Satellite Beach, 
while the applications to acquire shares of First National Bank of Eau 
Gallie and Indialantic Beach Bank were denied by unanimous vote. 
It 
was understood that appropriate orders and a statement would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 
Truth in Lending. 
In a memorandum dated June 24, 1970, the 
Legal Division recommended that the Department of Justice be authorized 

1913 
6/25/70 
-3-
to intervene on behalf of the Board in a law suit (Marcus v. Diners 
Club, Inc.) pending in the United States District Court for the Northern 
District of Illinois, Eastern Division, in which the constitutionality 
of the civil liability provision of the Truth in Lending Act was an 
issue. 
During discussion it was suggested that some one of the other 
similar suits pending might provide a better vehicle for intervention 
and that the decision in this regard might be left to the Department of 
Justice. However, Board members indicated that they would like to be 
made aware of any tentative decision to intervene in a different case. 
The staff then responded to a number of questions from members 
of the Board regarding points of law and regulation. There was some 
discussion of the applicability of Regulation Z in situations where fi-
nance charges did not begin to accumulate for a certain number of days 
after incurrence of debt but statements were not received promptly 
enough by the customer to permit him to take advantage of the "free ride" 
period. It was the consensus that this was a point that should be con-
sidered in connection with a forthcoming study of possible Regulation Z 
revisions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
Department of Justice should be authorized to intervene, on behalf of 
the Board, in the Marcus v. Diners Club suit, unless in the Department's 
judgment intervention in another case would be more advantageous, in 
which event the matter would be referred back to the Board. 

I f i l l 
6/25/70 
-4-
Bank Protection Act. 
The Bank Protection Act of 1968 requires 
the four supervisory agencies (the Board, the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board) to report to the Congress not later than July 7, 1970, 
regarding the results of consultations with insurance companies and 
State agencies that supervise or regulate insurance companies "to deter-
mine the feasibility and desirability of premium rate differentials based 
on the installation, maintenance, and operation of security devices and 
procedures." 
In a memorandum dated June 23, 1970, Governor Robertson recom-
mended that the Board give tentative approval to a proposed report that 
had been drafted by representatives of the four agencies and suggest to 
the other agencies that, if they approved the report, it be sent to the 
Congress by each agency with separate letters of transmittal. 
After discussion agreement was expressed with suggestions for 
rearrangement of the material in the draft report to emphasize certain 
findings that were considered most germane to the conclusions reached. 
It was understood that copies of the report, so revised, would be trans-
mitted to the other agencies and that the report, if agreeable to them, 
would then be transmitted to the Congress. 
Governor Mitchell withdrew from the meeting at this point to 
travel to Little Rock, Arkansas, to conduct an oral presentation on a 
bank holding company application. All members of the staff except 
Messrs. Holland and Kenyon also withdrew. 

1.915 
6/25/70 
-5-
Housing legislation. Reference was made to a speech yesterday 
in which President Morris of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had 
criticized Congressional attempts to use the Federal Reserve System to 
force more money into the housing market. Mr. Morris had focused on 
Title VII of the Emergency Home Finance Act, now pending in the House 
of Representatives, under which the Board would be authorized to allow 
member banks to hold a portion of their required reserves in the form 
of investments in Federal housing agency securities. 
Mr. Holland pointed out that the provision in question was not 
included in the bill as it passed the Senate, but had been introduced 
in the House by Congressman Rees. Chairman Burns had expressed his 
personal objection to a number of members of the Congress after the 
matter came to his attention. 
In addition, at the Chairman's request, 
Mr. Holland had contacted the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents and sug-
gested that they call the provision to the attention of their directors 
for whatever action the latter might deem appropriate. This had been 
done particularly because the American Bankers Association, in endorsing 
the Rees amendment, had indicated that it was agreeable to Chairman 
Burns, apparently as the result of a misunderstanding during a conversa-
tion between the President of the Association and Chairman Burns. 
Mr. Holland noted that it was against this background that Chairman Burns 
had expressed his appreciation to the Reserve Bank Presidents, during 
the course of the recent Federal Open Market Committee meeting, for 
assisting in the matter. Mr. Holland added that, despite the endorse-
ment of the American Bankers Association, the provision was not favored 

±<jm 
6/25/70 
-6-
by a number of leading bankers, some of whom had contacted their Senators 
and Congressmen. It seemed possible that the Rees amendment would be 
deleted by the Senate-House conferees. 
Governor Brimmer expressed disappointment with regard to the 
procedure followed, concerning which he had not heretofore been informed. 
In his opinion the matter should have been brought before the Board for 
consideration, in line with the usual practice when legislation affect-
ing the Federal Reserve System was pending. He was not certain what his 
position would have been on the Rees amendment, but he felt strongly 
that the Board members should have been given an opportunity to partici-
pate in the formulation of a position. 
Governor Maisel agreed and went on to say that he had some question 
whether opposition to the Rees amendment represented an appropriate 
policy posture or logical extension of policy positions that had been 
adopted by the Board in the past. 
Governor Robertson expressed doubt as to the appropriateness of 
using Reserve Bank directors to advocate a position that had not been 
endorsed by the Board. Like Governors Maisel and Brimmer, he believed 
that as a general principle the Board should be informed of developments 
in connection with pending legislation of special interest to the Federal 
Reserve System in order that the members might have a voice in establish-
ing a position. 
Governor Daane observed that the matter apparently had arisen in 
such a way as to involve the Chairman personally, and Mr. Holland added 

I S i ? 
6/25/70 
-7-
that in contacting the Presidents he had been careful to speak on behalf 
of the Chairman rather than the Board as such. 
However, members pointed 
out that such a distinction might not be clear to parties contacted. 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that the matter 
would be reviewed following the Chairman's return. 
NAC matter. 
Governor Brimmer, speaking as Alternate to Chairman 
Burns on the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and 
Financial Problems, related that the General Accounting Office had ex-
pressed an interest in looking at the NAC function in relation to certain 
loans made by international organizations of which the United States is 
a member. 
The Treasury representative had taken a position at NAC staff 
level of urging cooperation. 
This had led to the question whether it 
would be appropriate to make available to GAO personnel memoranda pre-
pared regularly by members of the Board's staff for Chairman Burns and 
Governor Brimmer on NAC staff debates, particularly in regard to the 
loans under consideration. 
Governor Brimmer said he had suggested reserving judgment pend-
ing a meeting with GAO personnel, while Chairman Burns had suggested 
that Governor Brimmer might first talk with the Comptroller General, 
reminding him of the peculiar position of the Federal Reserve within 
the structure of the Government, as contrasted with that of other depart-
ments and agencies represented on the NAC. 
The result, Governor Brimmer 
said, might be a decision to proceed as seemed necessary, with judgment 

1 3 1 8 
6/25/70 
-8-
exercised as to how much should be shown to the GAO investigators in 
all the circumstances. 
Members of the Board noted that involvement in the NAC was not 
a Board function and instead was vested by statute in the Chairman of 
the Board, with Governor Brimmer acting as alternate. They expressed 
personally, however, the view that it seemed doubtful whether it would 
be incumbent upon the Chairman and Governor Brimmer to reveal to the 
GAO the contents of internal memoranda that had been prepared for their 
benefit by Board staff. Members observed that any official positions 
taken within the NAC by the Chairman or Governor Brimmer presumably 
would be available in NAC files. 
Governor Brimmer reiterated that he had called attention to the 
matter because he had not wanted to let the situation develop without 
the knowledge of the Board members. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1 < » 1 9 
Item No. 1 
6/25/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of at least 
oO per cent of the voting shares of 
Citizens National Bank of Orlando, 
Orlando, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
i842(a)(3)) t 
a n d section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
t h e Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80-per cen 
o f the voting shares of Citizens National Bank of Orlando, Orlando, 
plorid a ("Citizens Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Writ*.-
•-en notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
he Currency and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Co 
mPtroller recommended approval of the application. 

1 < J 2 0 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on April 21, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6407), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
$123 million, representing approximately 1 per cent of total bank 
deposits in Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
approved by the Board to date.) It ranks fourteenth in size among 
Florida's 17 bank holding companies; acquisition of Citizens Bank 
($82 million deposits) would increase Applicant's Statewide control 
deposits to almost 2 per cent, and it would become the twelfth 
largest bank holding company in the State. 
Citizens Bank, located in Orlando, is the second largest 
bank in Orange County, controlling 12.7 per cent of county deposits. 

1 9 ^ 1 
-3-
A presently affiliated bank, which is not involved in Applicant's 
proposal, controls 1.9 per cent of such deposits. Citizens Bank 
competes with 18 banks, including nine subsidiaries of five bank 
holding companies, all of which are larger than Applicant is or 
will be upon consummation of the present proposal, and one of which 
controls 42 per cent of county deposits. 
All of Applicant's present subsidiaries are located in 
Dade County, and the nearest office to Citizens Bank is 230 miles 
south of Orlando. Consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
eliminate no existing competition, and it does not appear that it 
would foreclose potential competition, or have adverse effects on 
the viability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area, and could stimulate 
competition in Orlando and Orange County, as well as in Miami and 
Dade County. The banking factors, as applied to the facts of 
record, are consistent with approval of the application. 
Increased 
convenience to the communities involved will result from greater 
lending capabilities of the present and proposed subsidiaries, and 
from the availability of international services at Citizens Bank; 
these considerations lend some weight in support of approval of 
the application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 

1 9 2 2 
-4-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 25, 1970, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, liaise 1, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
SherrilK 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
v " •• 
(SEAL) 
