MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 18, 1968 
tf^fv,.. 

1 0 8 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 18, 1968. The Board met in the Board Roon) 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mrs . Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Short-term banking reporting system. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from Mr. Byrne dated March 15, 1968, requesting authority 

1031 
3/18/68 
-4-
to issue to the Federal Reserve Banks a technical memorandum initiating 
procedures leading to the implementation of a proposed short-term 
banking reporting system (SBR). The "reserves carried" series that the 
Board had approved in principle in May 1967 also would be initiated. 
Under present scheduling, submittal of data in the new format 
would begin in mid-April, and for a transition period until about the 
first of June parallel processing under the old techniques and the 
new SBR system would be conducted. 
Discussion centered principally on the adaptability of the 
proposed system to possible changes, expected to be considered by the 
Board in the near future, in reserve computation procedures. In 
response to inquiries as to whether it might be advisable to wait a 
week or ten days to institute the new system, the staff brought out that 
the scheduling of a number of complex adjustments would thereby be 
hindered. Also, if the new system was initiated as contemplated, modi-
fication to accommodate new reserve computation procedures could be 
accomplished more readily. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was authorized 
to proceed with the introduction of the new system. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks pursuant to this action is 
attached as Item No. 1. 

1031 
3/18/68 
-4-
Record of Board policy actions. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated March 13, 1968, 
submitting draft entries for the record of Board policy actions for 
1967 in form proposed for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
Governor Daane suggested that in recording votes of members 
of the Board on policy actions, members who were absent and not voting 
be so identified. Otherwise, an impression might be given that members 
who were not shown either as voting for or against an action had 
abstained from voting. The point was of particular interest to him, 
since his official activities involved a considerable amount of foreign 
travel. 
In reply, it was indicated that, while there might be a few 
mechanical difficulties, they could be surmounted. However, it was 
suggested that it might be inadvisable to introduce such a change with 
respect to the Board's 1967 policy actions, because the changed procedure 
would not conform with the record of policy actions of the Federal Open 
Market Committee for 1967, which had already been released. 
After a discussion of problems that would have to be resolved 
in adopting for FOMC purposes the type of vote recording Governor Daane 
had suggested, it was understood that a memorandum would be prepared for 
the Board's consideration. 
The record of Board policy actions for 1967 was then approved 
unanimously for inclusion in the Annual Report, subject to certain 

1 0 3 1 
3/18/68 
-4-
editorial changes in an entry relating to the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance and there was a general review of developments at the meeting of 
central bank governors over the past week-end that had eventuated in 
the issuance of a communique yesterday. 
(Note: A copy of the commu-
nique is attached as Item No. 2.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Patricia A. C. Walton as Keypunch Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Trans fers 
Jean S. Bell, from the position of Clerk-Typist, Division of 
Personnel Administration, to the position of Clerk-Typist, Task Force-
Special Regulations, effective March 24, 1968. 
Eleanor Q. Clarkson, from the position of Legal Records Clerk, 
Legal Division, to the position of Clearing and Recording Clerk, Task 
Force-Special Regulations, with an increase in basic annual salary from 
$5,659 to $6,123, effective March 24, 1968. 
On March 18, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 

3/18/68 
-5-
By the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations 
—
—
—
—
— 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York approving the appointment of 
C. Frank Kaker as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Hoyleton State and Savings Bank, Hoyleton, 
Illinois, for continuation of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding the application of 
State Bank of DeKalb, DeKalb, Texas, for 
continuation of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to Security Trust Company of Rochester 
Rochester, New York, approving the establish-
ment of an in-town branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter 
to The Schenectady Trust Company, 
Schenectady, New York, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch in 
Colonie. 

B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1 0 . 9 3 
Item No. 1 
3/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 18, 1968. 
°ear Sir: 
The enclosed Technical Memorandum No. 16 initiates procedures 
Authorized by the Board leading to the implementation of the Short-term 
Banking Reporting System (SBR). This will also initiate a current indi-
vidual bank Reserves Carried Series. 
* 
The SBR will contain an integrated file of daily, individual 
a nk data, and current bank structure information for generating reserve 
Position forecasts as well as all existing deposit, reserve, and borrow-
ng releases. 
In addition, the system will provide selective retrieval 
CaPability for research use of deposit, borrowing, and structure data. 
The SBR provides a significant improvement in over-all data 
nagement and for integrated, flexible processing. All individual bank 
ta involved, with the exception of the 300-Bank Monday Night Wire and 
.^evant bank structure changes, will be submitted by the Reserve Banks 
a standard format on magnetic tape. The system will process as input 
^ 
350 million characters of information annually, and will eliminate 
low of over one and one-half million punched cards currently submitted 
the Board annually. 
W q 
Under present scheduling, submittal of data in the new format 
f i
u l d begin in mid-April and, for the transition period until about the 
$BRSt ° f J u n e ' P a r a l l e l processing with both the old techniques and new 
Und S y 8 t e m w i l 1 b e c o n d ucted. 
This will provide back-up as the new system 
th er*>oes f*nal testing, and allow the new file structure to be built as 
the ° l d d a t a 8 t r e a m s a r e P h a3e d o u t- 
It is anticipated that by mid-June 
phase-over would be complete and the new system operating independently, 

1 0 9 4 
-2-
Copies of the Technical Memorandum have been sent under 
separate cover to the Heads of the Accounting, Data Processing, 
Research and Discount Departments at your Bank. Members of the Committee 
on Current Reporting Series, and the person at your Bank listed as the 
staff representative on problems and procedures with respect to existing 
reporting series in this area, will also receive a copy. 
Very truly yours, 
.'•Vj '>.*• . . 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Attachment. 
i, •.:'•' 
T O THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

. 1(195 
X L C 1 I 1 
1 1 U « 
t-
3/18/68 
COMMUNIQUE 
The Governors of the Central Banks of Belgium, Germany, Italy, 
the Netherlands, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, and the United States 
Net in Washington on March 16 and 17, 1968 to examine operations of the 
gold pool, to which they are active contributors. The Managing Director 
°f the International Monetary Fund and the General Manager of the Bank 
for International Settlements also attended the meeting. 
The Governors noted that it is the determined policy of the 
United States Government to defend the value of the dollar through 
aPpropriate fiscal and monetary measures and that substantial 
improvement of the U.S. balance of payments is a high priority objective. 
They also noted that legislation approved by Congress makes 
the whole of the gold stock of the nation available for defending the 
t t v • * 
Value of the dollar. 
They noted that the U.S. Government will continue to buy and 
gold at the existing price of $35 an ounce in transactions with 
Monetary authorities. The Governors support this policy, and believe 
it 
contributes to the maintenance of exchange stability. 
The Governors noted the determination of the U.K. authorities 
do all that is nccessary to eliminate the deficit in the U.K. balance 
Payments as soon aj possible and to move to a position of large and 
SUstained surplus. 

Finally, they noted that the Governments of most European 
countries intend to pursue monetary and fiscal policies that encourage 
domestic expansion consistent with economic stability, avoid as 
far as possible increases in interest rates or a tightening of money 
markets, and thus contribute to conditions that will help all 
countries move toward payments equilibrium. 
The Governors agreed to cooperate fully to maintain the 
existing parities as well as orderly conditions in their exchange 
markets in accordance with their obligations under the Articles 
o f Agreement of the International Monetary Fund. The Governors 
beiieve that henceforth officially-held gold should be used only 
t o effect transfers among monetary authorities and, therefore, 
thGy decided 
no longer to supply gold to the London gold market or 
anV other gold market. Moreover, as the existing stock of monetary 
is sufficient in view of the prospective establishment of the 
f a cUity for Special Drawing Rights, they no longer feel it necessary 
to K y Cold from the market. Finally, they agreed that henceforth 
h°y v;i11 n o t s c l 1 
to monetary authorities to replace gold sold 
in Private markets. 

The Governors agreed to cooperate even more closely than 
in the past to minimize flows of funds contributing to instability 
in the exchange markets, and to offset as necessary any such flows 
that may arise. 
In view of the importance of the pound sterling in the 
international monetary system, the Governors have agreed to provide 
further facilities which will bring the total of credits immediately 
Mailable to the U.K. authorities (including the IMF standby) to 
billion. 
The Governors invite the cooperation of other central banks 
the policies set forth above. 
March 17, 1968 

..UOVCOW-
BDARD DF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1 0 S 8 
Item No. 3 
3/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C F. 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 19, 1968 
Mr. L. E. Quackenbush, Assistant Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Quackenbush: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of March 14, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of C. Frank 
Kaker as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, effective March 26, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. 
Assistant 
Forrestal, 
Secretary. 

1 0 9 9 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/18/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 19, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 12, 1968, 
concerning the application of the Hoyleton State and Savings 
Bank, Hoyleton, Illinois, for continuance of deposit insurance 
after withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged 
upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully 
consummated, and there are no programs that the Acting Director 
would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank 
to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1 1 0 0 
Item No. 5 
3/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 27, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 13, 1968, 
concerning the application of State Bank of DeKalb, DeKalb, 
Texas, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged 
upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully 
consummated, and there are no programs that the Acting Director 
would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank 
to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1 1 0 1 
Item No. 6 
3/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P G N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 19, 1968 
/ 
Board of Directors, 
Security Trust Company of Rochester, 
Rochester, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by Security Trust Company of Rochester, 
Rochester, New York, at Four State Street, Rochester, New York, pro-
vided the branch is established within three years from the date of 
this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch 
will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. It is understood that careful consideration 
is being given to all means to strengthen your bank's capital position, 
Very truly yours, 
A 
A', .'"J 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
/..V; . 

Item No. 7 I 1 ey 
3/18/68 
^ 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10045 
M A R 1 8 1S33 
Mr. Louis V. Kortnann 
President 
, ~ 
The Schenectady Trust Conpany 
Schenectady, Hew York 
12301 
Doar Mr. Kortmann; 
Reference is nado to your letter dated I-'arch 
i960, requesting an extension of the time within which year 
hanlc a ay establish a branch In the Plaza Seven Shopping 
Center (foraorly referred to ao County Lino Chopping Cc^.::} 
Route 7f Tovn of Colonic, Albany County, Uew York, ao 
approved by the Board of Governors on April 5* 1953. 
that time there hao been one extension of time, which 
oxpires April 
19^3-
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Roserve Cysten, the Federal Kescrvo Bank of Hew York, 
under delegated authority, has approved your request cud 
extends to July 5, I96G, the tirae within which your bank say 
Qotablioh a branch at the above location. 
Wo shall appreciate your advising us when the 
branch io established and opened for business, giving 
offoctivo date of opening, the nane, if any, by which it will 
ko known, and the official postal address, including the ui-? 
code nuaber. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by s i t -
ing and returning the enclosed copy to uc. 
Slncorely yours, 
Thotnas M. Si-Ion, Jr. 
Vico President 
E n c l o s u r e 
PO/mmb 
