PR'6 0 9 
(
R
ev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
April 3, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
; 
• i 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
t 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
i • 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 3, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
a
t 9:30 a.m. 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics i./ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance JL/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Byrn and Miss Ormsby of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Staff presented an economic and financial review of the kind 
customarily presented in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
°f the briefings given. 
After discussion based on the review, members of the staff except 
Holland, Mr. Kenyon, and Mrs. Byrn left the room. 
Other officers and staff of the research divisions also attended. 
PRESENT: 

J ill 
4/3/70 
_2-
The remaind er of the meeting had been arranged for the purpose 
°f receiving a presentation concerning the plans of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York for the construction of an annex building. 
In preparation for the presentation, Governor Mitchell reviewed 
briefly the history of the program, issues on which correspondence had 
been exchanged between the Bank and the Board, and the current status 
9f the project. 
Upon learning that building models prepared by the 
Bank's architects were available, he had concluded that it would be 
helpful for the Board to become familiar with them before additional 
Planning was undertaken. 
First Vice President Treiber and Vice President Braun of the 
New York Bank then entered the room, along with Mr. Roche of the Bank's 
architectual firm and two of his associates. 
Mr. Farrell and other 
members of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations also entered, 
together with Mr. Lethbridge, the Board's architectual consultant, and 
Messrs. Kelleher and Anderson of the Division of Administrative Services. 
Mr. Treiber commented generally on the steps thus far taken by 
the Reserve Bank. 
He noted among other things that arrangements had been 
completed for the termination of most of the leases in the property being 
acquired for the annex building. 
However, three longer-term leases still 
created a problem. 
The Bank was studying what might be done in those 
cases and would in the near future submit recommendations to the Bank's 

1 12 
4/3/70 
_ 3-
directors, after which the matter would be referred to the Board of 
Governors. 
1/ 
Mr. Roche then described, with the aid of slides, problems 
Presented in meeting objectives specified by the Bank in view of zoning 
constraints, the dimensions of the site, and the surrounding environment. 
i{
e proceeded to describe the type of structure that was believed to afford 
reasonable solutions to those problems. 
A general discussion followed, after which Mr. Treiber summarized 
l n
 a statement during which he referred to the need to secure air rights 
above certain church-owned adjacent property along with fee to a small 
church-owned building that would be demolished. 
This matter, he said, 
would be presented to the Bank's directors and then to the Board of 
Governors. 
He also stressed that the architectual firm's plans, which 
had been presented to the directors last fall, still were preliminary 
and subject to modifications. 
The Board members then retired to a nearby conference room for 
a
 viewing of models of the proposed annex structure in the setting of 
the surrounding community. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
y 
Following Mr. Treiber's comments, Chairman Burns left the meeting 
for an out-of-town appointment. 
Mr. Holland also withdrew. 
