PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for September 17, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. (Meeting with Federal Advisory Council) 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
),A 
i' JA i 

2432 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
°f the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C., at 10:30 a.m. 
°n Friday, September 17, 1971. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Meyer, Dorrance, Fangboner, 
Barr, Bassett, Freeman, Morgan, Reardon, 
Miller, Gray, and Clausen, Members of the 
Federal Advisory Council from the First, 
Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, 
Seventh, Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, Eleventh, 
and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, 
respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
i 
Economic and financial developments and prospects: 
A. In the judgment of the Council members, how is the wage/price 
freeze being regarded in different sections of the country? 
What are the major problems that have been encountered? 
How good does compliance appear to be? What is the out-
look for the balance of the 90-day freeze? 
a s
 
I n general, the 90-day wage/price freeze has been accepted 
X ^ ^ necessary measure. 
Surprisingly few problems have been encountered. 
a C C e
C a t i o n s a^e that compliance at present is good. The degree of 
brev? t a n C e t*ie f r e e z e has encountered seems related to its relative 
that
 
y» anc* great concern is developing with respect to the measures 
effe
 w i l : L b e adopted at the end of the 90-day period and their potential 
e m p h
C t i v e n e s s ' 
It is essential that the Administration periodically 
asize the necessity of maintaining the freeze until the new program 
ecomes effective. 

2432 
9/17/71 
-2-
Members of the Council expressed gratification that at his 
press conference yesterday the President had indicated that Phase II, 
to follow the 90-day freeze, would continue to exact strong discipline. 
Some of the enthusiasm with which the freeze had been met initially was 
beginning to dissipate as the restrictions began to rankle, and there 
might be pressure to relax Phase II to the point of diminished effective-
ness. Now that the half-way mark of the freeze was approaching, it 
wight be salutary if a Government leader such as Chairman Burns appeared 
°n television to bolster public support for the program. 
Members of the Board indicated that Chairman Burns would be 
apprised of the Council's suggestion, although question was raised 
whether the circumstances might not call for a different spokesman. 
B. How do Council members assess the program's probable 
impact on retail sales and on business inventories 
and capital spending plans over the balance of 
1971 and on into 1972? 
i 
The President's actions should produce a quickening of the 
usiness pace generally, perhaps quite dramatically in time if consumer 
e*Pectations concerning lessening inflation are realized. The probable 
elimination of the 7 per cent excise tax on autos should begin to make 
a noticeable difference in car sales before the end of this year. The 
relatively sharp decline in inventory-sales ratios, together with the 
Anticipated further rise in retail sales, suggests the probability of 
increased inventory buying. Capital spending should increase in 1972, 
Particularly if the President's proposed 10 per cent investment tax 
Credit for the first year and 5 per cent thereafter is enacted. How-
e v e r> the broad outlines of the approach the Administration proposes 
take at the end of the freeze should begin to emerge if the confi-
n e and momentum that have been established are to be maintained. 
Council members responded in the negative to a question 
Aether they saw any reason to anticipate a surge of buying during the 

2 4 3 4 
9/17/71 
-3-
freeze in order to avoid post-freeze price rises. One member suggested 
that some deferment of buying might have occurred; he cited an instance 
in which increased buying in advance of an announced October 1 price 
increase had subsided when it became known that the increase could not 
take effect at least until mid-November. 
C. Do Council members have any suggestions to convey 
with regard to the kind of domestic program that it 
would be desirable to have after the 90-day wage/ 
• price freeze? 
It is too early to judge confidently how much stimulative 
impact the President's program will have, or whether Congress will 
farther than the Administration has requested in lowering taxes. 
The situation obviously will have to be freshly assessed early next 
year. For the moment, it appears that all the stimulus that can 
safely be introduced is being introduced, given the suppressed 
inflationary pressures that still exist. 
The President's decision not to extend the freeze beyond 
the original 90-day period is probably a wise one. On the other hand, 
m uch of the benefit would be lost if the feeling was created that no 
restraint would be imposed on either wage or price increases after the 
90-day period. A limitation of wage increases related to productivity 
8ains is desirable. The Council continues to favor the establishment 
o f a high level price and wage review board as proposed by Dr. Burns. 
The Council does not favor an excess profits tax as it is counter-
Productive, and is difficult to administer and enforce. 
Consideration 
should be given to limiting the power of labor unions to impose wage 
^emands in excess of productivity. 
There was no further discussion of this topic. 
D. What is the Council's judgment with regard to the 
outlook for general economic activity, including 
consumer and business investment expenditures, price 
and wage performances, employment, and capacity 
utilization through the first half of 1972, assuming 
that there is some program to limit wage and price 
increases beyond the 90-day freeze period? 

2435 
9/17/71 
-4-
The Council believes that if the program recommended by the 
President on August 15 is fully implemented it is likely to stimulate 
growth appreciably throughout the economy. The expansion is likely to 
Persist at least through the first half of 1972, at a sufficient pace 
to narrow the margin between potential and actual output and also to 
produce some decline in the rate of unemployment. The wage-price 
outlook is less certain, but experience ought to be better than in the 
pre-freeze period. Much depends on whether the change in the national 
mood which the pause appears to have produced can be maintained in the 
months ahead. Avoidance of wage settlements far in excess of produc-
tivity gains will be critical. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the Council's answer meant 
that foreseeable business expansion would be merely the result of 
improvement of some individual elements such as housing, inventories, 
Plant and equipment expenditures, and increased exports rather than an 
entirely new atmosphere. Responses indicated that the Council's appraisal 
w a s not based entirely on statistics but also on the improvement in 
Public psychology because of the feeling that at last economic problems 
w®re being constructively addressed. 
Governor Mitchell noted that Congress appeared to favor the 
r°ute of tax cuts and direct incentives to stimulate consumption, whereas 
the Administration had chosen the route of stimulating investments. He 
inquired which method the Council would advocate, if it proved that 
Present measures produced only a mild stimulation of consumption. Mem-
b e r s of the Council expressed themselves in favor of a combination, 
although noting that the prospect of a Federal deficit of the magnitude 
$28 billion, with attendant questions as to how it would be financed, 
v°uld seem to argue against substantial tax cuts. They anticipated a 

2 4 3 6 
9/17/71 
-5-
difficult role for monetary policy in an environment of heavy demand 
for bank money and with fiscal policy so expansive. Mr. Barr said he 
would dislike to see the Congress enact tax cuts that would erode the 
tax base significantly and preclude progress in solving pressing social 
Problems, such as the need for welfare reform. 
Mr. Freeman expressed the view that there was a fundamental 
difference between the basic assumptions of the Board and the Council. 
It: appeared to him that the Board and its staff were discouraged at the 
r a t e o f improvement in the economy. The Council members, however, felt 
t h at the economy was improving, perhaps as fast as it should, and the 
improvement was accelerating. There was a present danger of over-
simulating, and a year from now the problem could be to slow down the 
economy. The essence of the Council's attitude might be found in its 
Written answer to the previous question, namely, that "For the moment, 
it: appears that all the stimulus that can safely be introduced is 
being introduced, given the suppressed inflationary pressures that still 
X i s t ' M 
Unemployment figures were less alarming when it was borne in 
m i n d that the totals included teen-agers and wives; the rate of unemploy-
ment p 
among heads of families.was substantially below the over-all rate. 
Questions by members of the Board as to whether the Council 
nieant t-h 
cnat it regarded the present unemployment rate as tolerable brought 
firm negative responses. On balance, the Council felt that business 
improving, although of course before it could really show substantial 
pr°vement many remaining downward trends had to be halted. The members 
Were 
not basing their impressions solely on statistics, which suffered 
from a long lag, but on their conversations with customers. 

244^ 
9/17/71 
-6-
Mr. Clausen observed that it seemed possible that Congress 
might provide more stimulus to the economy than the Administration 
program had called for. 
If that happened, monetary policy might be 
called upon to keep the upward thrust within safe bounds. 
If banks> 
which were responsive to monetary and fiscal policy but were not sub-
ject to the current restraints, should find excess demand for funds 
pressing upon interest rates, they could be placed in an unfair light 
in the eyes of the public as not living up to the spirit of the Presi-
dent's program. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether the Council envisaged 
Phase II, to follow the 90-day freeze, as some means of controlling 
wages and prices only with respect to about 2,000 large businesses 
rather than requiring across-the-board restrictions. 
Ensuing comments 
indicated that members could not be unmindful of what was palatable and 
enforceable without building up a large bureaucracy. 
In the light of 
those practical considerations, it could well happen that wage and price 
controls would be directed to a relatively small number of large corpo-
rations, perhaps with enforcement examples among smaller ones. 
Time 
was a great problem, and it would be important to develop a workable 
S et of controls to put in place at the end of the 90-day freeze. The 
President's program was on the right track, but chafing was bound to 
0ccur as time went on and exceptions would be encouraged if Phase II 
W e*e not devised in time to insure continuity. 

2438 
9/17/71 
-7-
Messrs. Morgan and Gray expressed reservations about direct-
ing Phase II primarily to the biggest businesses. The spotlight should 
be turned on smaller ones as well in order for the program to have 
Efficient impact. Moreover, large businesses had already been bear-
ing the principal load of hiring minority groups, with relatively little 
demanded in that respect from small businesses. 
In response to a question, members of the Council expressed 
agreement that compliance with the restrictions of Phase II should not 
b e merely voluntary; if it were, enforcement machinery could not be 
Provided and businesses that cooperated in good faith could be put at 
a disadvantage by those that were irresponsible. 
E. In view of the Government's new program, do you anticipate 
changes in the public's demand for money and for various 
types of bank and other credit? Will there be any 
effect on bank attitudes toward their business lending 
terms, portfolio investments, and liquidity needs? 
as 
To the extent that consumer and business spending increases 
anticipated, there will be a parallel growth in the demand for 
°th consumer and business credit. 
In particular, a strong year for 
^utomobile sales and other big ticket items could well lead to a 
ecord growth of consumer debt during 1972. If the investment tax 
edit encourages substantially larger business capital outlays, this 
velopment, as well as necessary inventory growth to support rising 
^nal sales, will increase demands for credit, including term loans, 
the moment there seems to be no reason to anticipate any signifi-
nt effect on bank attitudes because of moderately increased demand 
. 
credit that might arise in the near term future. However, 
le
 e r si° n of a larger part of new bank resources into loans will 
ssen liquidity and necessarily limit the extent to which banks 
continue to add to their investment portfolios. 

2439 
9/17/71 
-8-
In order to assure adequate credit for the nation's antici-
pated needs, now is the appropriate time to suspend Regulation Q and 
to develop other sources of funds. 
In response to questions, members of the Council indicated 
that demand deposits had been showing a downtrend; it was thought 
that a great deal of demand money was being diverted to certificates 
°f deposit, and larger companies had gone more extensively into the 
Public bond market. Demand for business loans was expected to increase 
in the next few months. In fact, except in New York City, an increase 
was already being experienced. 
Most banks were more comfortable with respect to liquidity 
than they were six to nine months ago, but there was still room for 
improvement. With the increased loan demand expected in the next several 
months, some of the present liquidity would be displaced and there would 
b e a search for new funds to restore it. A great deal of money now 
Mailable was short-term—less than ninety days. Although circumstances 
o f recent years had necessitated borrowing short and lending long, 
hanks would like to improve that situation. 
The Council's comment regarding maximum rates of interest 
Payable under Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits) contemplated ultimate 
Suspension of all of the rate restrictions, although a transitional 
s t age might be necessary until the operating problems of savings and 
loan associations eased. The present was considered a time favorable 
t o the removal of rate ceilings because banks had a reasonable degree 

2449 
9/17/71 
-9-
°f liquidity, loan demand was moderate, and the move would not be met 
with drama in the press. Even if the suspension extended to all of the 
ceilings, very few banks were likely to raise their rates, yet new 
sources of funds would be opened. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether banks might not be put in 
a n unfavorable light in the eyes of the public if, at a time when other 
Prices were frozen, they were released from the present restrictions 
0r* interest rates paid. When the President's program was announced 
the middle of August there had been no need to set further controls 
interest rates because it had been expected that one of the effects 
o f the program would be a decline in rates. Yet there had been a public 
outcry because interest rates were not covered by the freeze. 
Responding comments reiterated the view that it would be bet-
ter to remove the ceilings now rather than wait until there was pressure 
against them. Suggestion was made that the move might be presented to 
tlle public as consistent with the President's program in that it would 
make additional funds available to banks with which they could encourage 
CaPital expenditures by businesses. 
It might be argued also that the 
C e U i n g S 
were unnecessary in an environment in which other restrictions 
been imposed. One Council member expressed the view that relatively 
f e w members of the public were aware of the rate ceilings in Regulation Q, 
a n d therefore little adverse public reaction to suspension need be 
e*Pected. 

2441 
9/17/71 
-10-
F. In the Council's view, what is the current and pros-
pective response of lending institutions to Secretary 
Connally's call for holding the line on lending rates? 
Maximum bank lending rates appear to be effectively frozen 
for the balance of the 90-day freeze and, conceivably, for the balance 
°f 1971. However, a major increase in money market interest rates 
that would force up bank interest costs could require banks to raise 
their lending rates during the balance of 1971. Moreover, if the 
Congress should adopt measures to stimulate the economy in excess 
of those proposed by the Administration, it might be necessary to 
Pursue a less expansive monetary policy with a consequent upward 
Pressure on interest rates. 
Discussion brought out that in its reference to the possibility 
of a major increase in money market interest rates the Council had had 
Federal funds particularly in mind. Many banks had been more dependent 
upon Federal funds in recent months than ever before, and if the rate 
them went out of bounds there was a question whether the present 
commercial lending rates could be maintained. The Council believed 
that if Regulation Q ceilings were suspended, pressure would be taken 
°ff short-term rates and banks would be enabled to reach for longer 
term loans. Council members responded in the negative to a question 
whether they knew how nonbank financial institutions were responding to 
the request to hold the line on lending rates. 
G. How does the program appear to be affecting the 
international operations of (a) major multinational 
firms and their customers, and (b) small or medium-
sized firms that do a substantial amount of importing 
or exporting business? 
(a) In general U.S. multinational companies seem to be 
a^justing satisfactorily to the program. With an adequate realignment 
o f currencies, it is expected that export prices at present levels 

2442 
9/17/71 
-11-
will produce increased export volume and profits. 
One problem for 
this group of companies is that increased profits of European 
°Perations will cause a larger dollar earnings repatriation to 
satisfy Office for Direct Investment requirements. 
(b) Smaller and medium-sized firms - Importers of raw 
commodities are little affected by the program because the surcharge 
l n general is not applicable. On semi-finished products where the 
Surcharge is applicable there has been confusion — initially foreign 
sellers were absorbing the 10 per cent surcharge but now seem to be 
usisting that it be passed on to the importer, who in turn is 
attempting to pass it on to the purchaser. The major unknown facing 
lmporters is whether they will be able to pass on to the ultimate 
Purchaser the increased costs resulting from the new foreign exchange 
Parities. 
The threat of dock strikes on the East and Gulf Coasts 
paused a number of importers to place larger than normal orders. 
auy such shipments were afloat on August 13. The recent decision 
emPting merchandise afloat from the surcharge was most welcome. 
In response to questions, President Meyer suggested that the 
*cremely high rates that had prevailed on Euro-dollars for a few days 
n°t necessarily reflected demands by banks but a frantic attempt 
y Persons who held foreign currencies to protect their positions. 
The 
ePatriation of dollar earnings to which the Council's statement referred 
have both good and bad aspects. 
It would be a favorable develop-
ment f 
r°r the balance of payments figures, but it could necessitate 
addit• 
Lonal borrowing overseas. 
Some companies that had conformed to 
e rules of the Office for Direct Investment and borrowed abroad were 
suffering because they had to repay those debts in depreciated dollars 
H. How does the Council appraise the impact of the 
President's program on the balance of payments? 
Do 
Council members have any suggestions with regard to 
possible future policies that might be pursued in the 
international area? 

2413 
9/17/71 
-12-
The immediate impact of President Nixon's program has been 
that the exchange rates of the important industrial countries now 
are floating for many or most transactions. 
The result of the 
reduced intervention by important central banks has been an immediate 
improvement of the U.S. balance of payments on an official settlements 
basis. To the extent that private foreigners are also reluctant to 
bold dollars, there should also be a tendency for the liquidity balance 
to improve. 
There have, of course, been a number of restrictions 
Placed on exchange transactions. 
Contrary to statements from our trading partners abroad, 
the impact of the 10 per cent surcharge, which affects about half of 
U-S. imports, should not be exaggerated. 
It probably will not reduce 
imports into, the United States by more than $400 million for the 
remainder of this year and, if maintained throughout 1972, at most 
billion. However, if maintained at that level, foreign countries 
m ay take retaliatory actions, thus reducing the surcharge's net effect. 
A«e effect of the 10 per cent reduction in U.S. economic aid probably 
will not amount to more than $100-$200 million on a per annum basis. 
It is clear that the major contributions towards restoring 
ecluilibrium in the balance of payments of the United States must come 
from arresting the inflation, increasing productivity, reducing U.S. 
military expenditures abroad, realigning major international exchange 
r a tes and removing restrictions against U.S. exports. 
The deficit on 
Current and long-term capital account probably will be of the order 
of $7 ~8 billion. 
Our gradual withdrawal from Vietnam together with 
s°me success in our current efforts to share the military burden in 
Europe with our European allies may result in an eventual net reduc-
tion of U.S. military expenditures abroad on the order of $1.5 billion. 
However, experience shows that progress in this area materializes 
V e r y slowly. 
An average revaluation of currencies vis-a-vis the dollar 
10 per cent (some higher, some lower) probably would improve our 
rade balance by $6.5 billion on an annual basis by 1973, although 
bis latter figure may be optimistic. 
In addition, such changes 
would increase the dollar value of earnings of U.S. investments 
a road--a large part of which are denominated in foreign currencies 
'-have some beneficial impact on the U.S. tourist gap, and also tend 
y 0 accelerate foreign investment in the United States and discourage 
investment abroad. These non-trade items may contribute an * 
® ditional $1.5 billion for a total impact on the balance of payments 
the neighborhood of $8 billion by 1973. These balance of payments 
stimates assume continuation of U.S. controls on U.S. capital outflows. 
G relaxation of controls on capital flows deserves further serious 
llu careful consideration. 

2441 
9/17/71 
-13-
The phasing out of the 10 per cent import surcharge should 
occur when an overall 10 per cent revaluation of parities against 
the dollar has been obtained and the opening of foreign trade and 
investment markets has been assured. Since the full effects of the 
revaluations are likely to be felt only gradually, the import surcharge 
might be phased out gradually. 
To obtain agreement on the international aspects of the 
Program, it would be advisable not to foreclose the possibility of 
increasing the price of gold. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the Council's advocacy 
further serious consideration of relaxation of controls on capital 
flows implied a belief that the controls should be dismantled. 
Ensuing 
comments indicated that the Council had discussed the desirability of 
removing the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program guidelines. 
If that were done, the result probably would be a substantial increase 
loans from the U.S. in order to save the interest differential, with 
a resultant adverse effect on the balance of payments. 
It seemed probable 
that Europeans liked the capital flows controls because U.S. industries 
W e re deterred from making investments in their territories. 
If new 
Currency parities were established on the basis of controlled and there-
f°re artificial markets, frequent adjustments would probably be necessary; 
the capital controls were removed, currencies would seek more realistic 
leVels. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the announcement of the President's 
Sram had indicated that the capital controls program would remain in 
ef f 
e c t for the time being but its future disposition would be reviewed. 
Tha 
a t review was now going forward. Although the range of options remained 

2445 
9/17/71 
-14-
the same, some new issues had emerged, about which it would be helpful 
to have the Council's reactions. One was the fundamental question of 
obtaining needed adjustments in foreign currency rates with the capital 
controls in effect. Another question was the extent to which, if con-
trols were removed, U.S. corporations would repay their borrowings 
abroad. Responses to the latter question indicated the view that total 
repayments would be large, but it might be argued that that would provide 
a better environment for the establishment of more realistic exchange 
rates. 
Governor Brimmer requested comments also on the possibility 
o f substituting some market-oriented mechanism for the VFCR and the 
Commerce program. Mr. Freeman mentioned the possible desirability of 
making imports more expensive by requiring that they be financed abroad 
a t the prevailing higher rates and Mr. Meyer noted that the cost of 
e*Ports was increased considerably under Export-Import Bank financing 
arrangements by the requirement that U.S. ships be used. 
In other comments the Council brought out that there had not 
b e en any noticeable diminution in the use of dollars in international 
commercial payments since August 15, and that although there was a 
tendency to regard the 10 per cent surcharge on imports as a hardship, 
it was far less onerous than the myriad of restrictions imposed by other 
countries on their imports. 
As to the Council's suggestion that the possibility of increas-
e s the price of gold should not be foreclosed there were some differences 

244G 
9/17/71 
-15-
of opinion within the Council. Although it might be argued that there 
was no logical basis at present for revaluation, a modest upward revision 
might go far toward breaking up present impasses. Reluctance to make 
a change involved an element of pride, but such a move would probably 
be easier to accomplish after the announcement of the President s pro-
gram than it would have been before, and it might be a step in the direc-
tion of realism. It might be useful to accept some token revaluation if 
doing so would facilitate negotiation of adjusted values of other cur-
rencies . 
2. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under present circumstances? 
^UitK.i to ch.< j upholder:; or ci^r 
lc van 
• t 
U 
In view of the more expansive thrust of fiscal policy as 
outlined in the Administration program, and which may be increased 
further by the Congress, it becomes more important that monetary and 
credit policy not aggravate that expansion. The Council is pleased 
to note that the minutes of the .meetings of the Open Market Committee 
as well as the recent behavior of the monetary aggregates indicate 
that this is in fact the objective of current credit policy and that 
it is being gradually realized. 
Although the Council does not have the responsibility for 
commenting on fiscal policy, it would be remiss if it did not express 
its concern regarding the magnitude of the anticipated federal deficit 
in the current fiscal year and its impact on monetary and credit policy. 
The increasing deficit will make it far more difficult to control 
inflationary forces. 
In response to a question by Governor Mitchell whether the 
Ic wa,.. jY;jd ?:hae ''• : lu-,-:;, 
I" • 
•„'• v: 
I 
•<.! 
Council would feel that growth of 2 or 3 per cent in M-i in the fourth 
Quarter would be inappropriate, one member of the Council expressed 
the view that that rate would be more stringent than necessary, but 

If 6 u • 
•(Siv. 
2 4 4 ^ 
9/17/71 
-16-
others pointed out that the average rate for the year as a whole would 
still be quite high. On the basis of its fairly optismistic appraisal 
of the economic outlook, and in view of its concern with the expansive 
thrust of fiscal policy and prospective inflationary pressures, the 
Council would lean toward a more restrictive monetary policy than it 
judged the Federal Reserve was pursuing, from a reading of the available 
record. 
Discussion indicated that the Council had ambivalent feelings: 
it was trying to advise what it thought would be good for the country, 
and at the same time the members had to be mindful of their responsi-
bilities to the stockholders of their banks. While it was difficult 
to recommend that monetary conditions be tightened when banks were being 
admonished to hold the line on interest rates they charged, if the Council 
could be objective it might lean toward a more restrictive monetary 
Policy. On the other hand it was putting in a word of caution that, in 
the face of the loan demand foreseen, if costs of money to banks were 
Pushed up too far, banks would find it difficult to hold the line on 
their own rates. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council would be 
held on November 4-5, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
/ 
Secretary 
w m 
