MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 10, 1970 

3421 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 10, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended. 

12/10/70 
-2-
Marine Midland Trust Company. A draft of an order reflecting 
approval on November 19, 1970, of the application of Marine Midland 
Trust Company of Central New York, Syracuse, New York, to merge with 
Marine Midland Trust Company of the Mohawk Valley, Utica, New York, 
had been distributed. 
(The title of the resulting bank would be 
Marine Midland Bank-Central, Syracuse, New York.) 
The issuance of the order was authorized; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Depositors Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 1, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine, to 
acquire shares of Springvale National Bank, Springvale, Maine. The 
recommendations were favorable. 
Members of the Board indicated that they would approve the 
application. However, Governor Robertson expressed concern about the 
pattern that was developing in the area north of Portland in terms of 
concentration. He suggested that the order to be issued on the case 
include a note of caution to the effect that not only competitive 
factors but factors of concentration would be scrutinized carefully in 
connection with any subsequent applications for the acquisition of 
banks in that area. There was general agreement with this suggestion, 

3123 
12/10/70 
-3-
although Governor Sherrill expressed reservations about going too far, 
in an order concerning an individual application, in setting forth 
statements of general principles, if they were intended to be applicable 
primarily to a particular banking organization. 
The application was then approved unanimously and the issuance 
of the order reflecting that decision was authorized, subject to final 
clearance of the language with Governors Robertson and Sherrill. A copy 
of the order, as issued, is attached as Item No. 2. 
Regulation Z. In a memorandum dated December 8, 1970, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation recommended the issuance for public 
comment of a proposed amendment to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, that 
would be intended to aid farmers in conducting their operations by allowing 
creditors to disburse funds, deliver goods, or perform work in agricul-
tural transactions involving the right of rescission without waiting for 
expiration of a three-day period. A draft of notice prepared for publi-
cation in the Federal Register was attached. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, since the proposed 
amendment was of a relaxing nature, it probably was not essential to 
publish for comment. However, such a procedure would permit any question 
to be raised for consideration. 
Chairman Burns suggested that total elimination of the three-day 
rescission period insofar as agricultural credit was concerned should 
be considered. In reply, it was stated that legislation to such effect 

3424 
12/10/70 
-4-
would be proposed in the Annual Report on Truth in Lending, a draft of 
which would be presented to the Board in the near future. 
The publication of the proposed amendment for comment was then 
authorized. 
Bank holding company legislation. Mr. Cardon reported that 
the Senate and House conferees had apparently reached agreement on 
compromise legislation for the regulation of one-bank holding companies. 
He commented on some of the accepted provisions and responded to a 
number of questions from members of the Board. He was asked to furnish 
the Board with a summary of the proposed legislation. 
Mr. Holland then reviewed preliminary plans developed by the 
staff for implementation of the legislation and said that documentation 
reflecting those proposals would be made available to the Board within 
a few days. 
Insurance coverage for Government securities. Reference was 
made to recent news articles concerning a proposal being considered by 
the Treasury that would make facilities of the Federal Reserve System 
available to brokerage houses and customers of member banks as a shelter 
against thefts of Government securities. 
Mr. Holland noted that the insurance company that had provided 
the bulk of the insurance against loss of Government securities had 
announced that it would cease writing such business the first of next 
year and that a breakdown in the Government securities market was likely 
if some alternative protection against losses was not made available. 

3425 
12/10/70 
-5-
The Treasury had been considering a range of possibilities for dealing 
with the problem, one of which contemplated the organization of a 
special purpose bank, and the Legal Division of the Board was studying 
aspects of that proposal. 
be analyzed by the research staff in view of the broad economic impli-
cations, members of the Board raised a number of questions relating 
among other things to the role that might be played by the Federal Reserve 
Banks, the broadening of book entry procedures, antitrust implications 
of the special purpose bank proposal, interim arrangements that might be 
developed, and possibilities for extending certain Reserve Bank services 
to brokerage firms and others. It was suggested that the formation of 
a special purpose bank along the lines suggested might not be the most 
desirable course, but that a breakdown in the Government securities market 
obviously should not be allowed to occur. It was understood that the 
Board would be kept advised of developments. 
Members of the staff other than Mr. Holland then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Chairman Burns commented on background underlying the contents 
of his speech of December 7, 1970, and the President's speech of December 4 
1970, concerning economic policies. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
After Chairman Burns had commented that the problem should also 

3426 
Item No. 1 
12/10/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MARINE MIDLAND TRUST COMPANY OF CENTRAL NEW YORK, 
Syracuse, New York, 
for approval of merger with 
Marine Midland Trust Company of the Mohawk Valley, 
Utica, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Central New York, Syracuse, New York ("Marine 
Midland-Syracuse"), a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and Marine 
Midland Trust Company of the Mohawk Valley, Utica, New York ("Marine 
Midland-Utica"), under the charter of Marine Midland-Syracuse and with the 
ttame Marine Midland Bank - Central. As an incident to the merger the 
^ offices of Marine Midland-Utica would become branches of the resulting 
bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has 
been published pursuant to said Act. 

34;>7 
-2-
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
the competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record in 
the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect of 
the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources and 
Prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 
Marine Midland-Syracuse (deposits $251 million) and Marine 
Midland-Utica (deposits $196 million) are subsidiaries of Marine Midland 
Banks, inc., Buffalo, New York, a registered bank holding company, which 
° W n s approximately 99 per cent of the outstanding stock of each bank. The 
holding company acquired control of Marine Midland-Syracuse in 1951 and of 
Marine Midland-Utica in 1954. The banks serve separate markets, their 
"^in offices are 50 miles apart and closest offices are situated approxi-
mately 35 miles from each other. The proposed merger represents an internal 
te°rganization of the banks undertaken to effect economies in their opera-
tions and to alleviate personnel shortages. 
The merger of Marine Midland-Syracuse and Marine Midland-Utica 
Would not eliminate existing or potential competition. The financial and 
^agerial resources and prospects of the merging banks and the resulting 
bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
Co 
"summation of the proposed merger would enable the resulting bank to 
better serve customers in the Syracuse and Utica markets by making available 

34^8 
-3-
to them increased lending limits and more convenient ac£es3 to 
international banking services. Convenience and needs considerations 
are, therefore, consistent with approval of the application. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pur-
suant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 10, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3\>9 
Item No. 2 
12/10/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
DEPOSITORS CORPORATION, 
Augusta, Maine, 
for approval of acquisition of at 
least 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of Springvale National Bank, 
Springvale, Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Depositors Corporation, Augusta, 
Maine ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the 
voting shares of Springvale National Bank, Springvale, Maine ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 24, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16611), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
considerati on. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the largest banking organization and bank 
holding company in the State of Maine, controlling four subsidiary 
banks with $185 million in combined total deposits. 
(Unless other-
wise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to 
reflect holding company acquisitions and formations approved by the 
Board to date.) Consummation of the proposal would raise Applicant' 
control of total State deposits less than 1 percentage point to 
16.6 per cent. Because of an apparent trend toward concentration 
of commercial banking in Maine, caution must be exercised with 
respect to proposals that might increase such concentration. How-
ever, the facts presented in this case are not such as to require 
a denial of the application. 

3431 
Bank, wifcU deposits of $9 million, is the next to the 
smallest of nine banks operating offices in York County, which 
approximates the relevant market. The nearest office of a subsidiary 
of Applicant is located 52 miles from Bank and numerous banking 
offices are located in the intervening area. It appears that con-
summation of the proposal would eliminate no significant competition 
between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiary banks. De 
novo branching by any of Applicant's subsidiaries into the area 
served by Bank may be accomplished only through entry into a town 
having no banking offices. It appears that such "open" towns in 
York County 
are small residential communities that seem not capable 
of supporting a banking office and that such entry is thus unlikely. 
Applicant has applied for a de novo charter in a county adjacent to 
York County. Acquisition of such a charter would enable Applicant's 
new bank to branch into any part of York County. However, that 
application was denied by the Maine Bank Commissioner and is the 
subject of litigation. It appears that consummation of the instant 
proposal would not foreclose significant potential competition. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have significant 
adverse effects on competition in any relevant area. Considera-
tions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served are regarded as consistent with approval. The banking 
factors, as they relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries are 
consistent with approval. The prospects and financial condition 

3432 
-4-
of Bank are regarded as satisfactory. Bank's management is nearing 
retirement age and affiliation with Applicant would facilitate 
management succession for Bank; this factor lends some weight toward 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the pro-
posed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 
1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors.Mitchell, Daane, 
and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
