MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 13, 1971 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 7 Amendment to Regulation Y, Bank 
Holding Companies 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, May 13, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
JV Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

m 
1140 
5/13/71 
-16-
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary-
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter to 
First National City Bank, New York, New York, granting permission to 
purchase shares of First National City Bank (Nigeria) Ltd., a commercial 
bank to be organized in Lagos, Nigeria. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First National City 
Bank, New York, New York, granting permission to purchase shares of 
First National City Bank (Congo), a commercial bank to be organized 
in Kinshasa, Congo. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Chemical Bank, 
New York, New York, granting permission to purchase shares of Chemical 
Bank Trustee Company Limited, a trust company to be organized in London, 
England. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Union, 
Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank of Cape Girardeau, Cape Girardeau, Missouri, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 4. 

1141 
5/13/71 
-16-
The Board unanimously approved the application of American 
Bancshares, Incorporated, North Miami, Florida, to become a bank hold-
ing company through acquisition of shares of The Second National Bank 
of North Miami, North Miami; Second National Bank of North Miami Beach, 
North Miami Beach; and The National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Peters-
burg, all in Florida. The Board also authorized issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting that decision. Copies of the documents are 
attached under Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Commercial 
Trust Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey, to acquire the 
. •» 
». 
assets and assume the liabilities of Bergen County National Bank of 
Hackensack, Hackensack, New Jersey, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
In a memorandum dated May 11, 1971, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation stated that General American Transportation Company, 
Chicago, Illinois, which had submitted an irrevocable declaration of 
't 
intent to divest by January 1, 1981, whatever interest it held in LaSalle 
National Bank, Chicago, had filed notice of intent under section 4(c)(12) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act to acquire additional shares of three 
foreign corporations. The Board unanimously approved the staff's recom-
mendation that no action be taken to forestall automatic approval, which 
Would occur on May 17, 1971. 
Cone 1U.'"! ion th " b CC •;:' • • ' : • • • . • ' • . ' ' . 1 • " " ' 
" •.' .' 
i '1 

5/13/71 
-4-
In a memorandum dated May 11, 1971, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation stated that Beneficial Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, 
which had submitted an irrevocable declaration of intent to divest by 
January 1, 1981, whatever interest it held in Peoples Bank and Trust 
Company, Wilmington, Delaware, had filed notice of intent under sec-
tion 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding Company Act to acquire Central 
National Life Insurance Company of Omaha, Omaha, Nebraska. The Board 
unanimously approved the staff's recommendation that no action be taken 
to forestall automatic approval, which would occur on May 17, 1971. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco interposing no objection to the Bank's proceed-
ing with the development of programs to determine future space require-
ments for the San Francisco head office and the Los Angeles Branch. A 
copy of the letter is1 attached as Item No. 7. 
Trust Company of Georgia. By order dated February 22, 1971, 
the Board had approved the application of Trust Company of Georgia, 
Atlanta, Georgia, to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of 
Peachtree Bank and Trust Company, Chamblee, Georgia. At the time of 
the Board's action, the Department of Justice had not submitted a report 
on the competitive factors involved. By petition filed March 2, 1971, 
the Department requested that the Board reconsider its approval of the 
application; the Department took exception principally to the Board's 
conclusion that because of the affiliation between the banks "present 

1143 
5/13/71 
-16-
and potential competition would neither be foreclosed by approval of 
the application nor encouraged by its denial." The Department argued 
that the Board should give effect to an affiliation only if the larger 
bank established and in fact controlled the smaller. By order dated 
March 19, 1971, the Board stayed the operation of its February order 
to consider the issues raised by the petition. 
In a memorandum dated May 6, 1971, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board vacate its stay and reinstate its February order approving 
the merger. Attached were a draft order and statement. 
Governor Robertson stated that if the Board was disposed to 
reaffirm its earlier decision at this time, he would dissent. The 
Department of Justice intended to bring suit against the merger, and 
if the decision were reaffirmed the Department would have to begin its 
action within five days. He thought that reconsideration would be the 
appropriate course; the Department would then have 30 days to bring 
action if the Board again approved the application. Moreover, he could 
find in the original approval opinion no indication that the principal 
issue raised by the Department had been sufficiently considered. The 
arguments advanced by the Department convinced him that the original 
decision had been in error. 
After discussion of procedural questions, there was unanimous 
agreement that the case would be reconsidered at an early date. Addi-
tionally, the staff was requested to review procedures followed by the 

1144 
5/13/71 
-16-
Board in the handling of merger applications when reports on competitive 
factors were not received from the other agencies within the prescribed 
30-day time period. 
Governor Daane joined the meeting at this point. 
"Building proper" costs. The Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans, in a memorandum dated May 10, 1971, 
concurred in a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations in a memorandum of April 19 that allocations against the 
$60 million limitation in section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act on 
"building proper" costs of Federal Reserve Bank branch buildings be 
reduced by appropriate credits pertaining to branch buildings sold. 
The Division's recommendation was supported by an opinion expressed 
by the Legal Division in a memorandum of March 17, 1971. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. 
Branch territory change. In a memorandum dated May 4, 1971, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval 
of a request by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City that the State 
of Wyoming be transferred from the Omaha Branch zone to the Denver 
Branch zone because the State had closer economic ties with Denver and 
could be better serviced by the Denver Branch. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation. A copy of 
the letter notifying the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City of this 
action is attached as Item No. 8. 

1145 
5/13/71 
-16-
Report on financial developments. With a memorandum dated 
May 10, 1971, Mr. Partee had furnished the members of the Board with 
a draft of report on financial developments in the first quarter of 
1971 to be submitted to the Congressional Joint Economic Committee. 
Discussion developed agreement with suggestions for rearrange-
ment of the material in the report and for some modifications of the 
time frame. 
The report was then approved unanimously, subject to final 
. i 
review by Chairman Burns. A copy of the letter transmitting the report 
to the Joint Economic Committee is attached as Item No. 9; a copy of 
i 
the report, as transmitted, has been placed in the Board's files. 
Amendment to Regulation Y (section 4(c)(5). In a notice of 
proposed rule making published in January 1971 the Board had indicated 
that it was considering limiting the permissible activities of subsid-
iaries established by bank holding companies in the future under 
section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act to those engaged in 
lending and fiduciary activities commenced de novo, except where the 
shares involved were of the kinds and amounts explicitly eligible for 
investment by a national bank under section 5136 of the Revised Statutes. 
The January notice did not propose language for an amendment to Regula-
tion Y, Bank Holding Companies, but in a memorandum dated May 3, 1971, 
the Legal Division expressed the view that the Board could lawfully 
adopt an amendment along the lines it had indicated, with a 30-day 

1146 
5/13/71 
-16-
deferred effective date, without offering the regulatory language for 
public comment. The memorandum explored the relative merits of the 
following alternative courses of action, the third of which was now 
recommended by the Legal Division, rather than the second, which had 
been contemplated by the January notice: 
(1) Continue to permit, without the Board's approval, 
acquisitions of companies that engage in an activity in 
which a national bank may engage at locations at which a 
bank in the holding company may engage in such activity, 
and subject to the other limitations on the extent to 
which a national bank may engage in the activity. This 
would require no action by the Board. 
(2) Limit the scope of acquisitions to shares of the 
kind explicitly eligible for investment by a national bank 
under Federal statute law and to shares of a company to 
perform lending or fiduciary activities commenced de novo. 
(3) Limit the scope of acquisitions that may be made 
by a holding company and its subsidiaries that are not banks 
or subsidiaries of banks to shares of the kinds explicitly 
eligible for investment by a national bank under Federal 
statute law; holding company banks and subsidiaries of such 
banks could acquire shares in the same manner as member 
banks not in a holding company. 
Under the recommended third alternative, in the future a bank 
holding company (unless it was a bank) and any of its subsidiaries that 
were not banks or subsidiaries of banks could acquire shares on the 
basis of section 4(c)(5) only if the shares were of the kinds and amounts 
explicitly eligible under Federal statute for investment by a national 
bank. In effect, the holding company and such subsidiaries could at 
the present time rely on section 4(c)(5) only to acquire shares of a 

10 
5/13/71 
-16-
small business investment company. However, banks and subsidiaries of 
banks would generally be able to acquire shares in accordance with the 
views of their supervisory agencies. In the case of a national bank, 
this would mean that the bank could acquire shares in accordance with 
the rules of the Comptroller of the Currency. A State member bank 
could acquire shares in accordance with the law of the State of its 
charter and Federal law as interpreted by the Board. In view of the 
limitations imposed by Federal law, the bank would be permitted to 
acquire only (1) shares of the kinds and amounts explicitly eligible 
under Federal statute for investment by a national bank and (2) 100 
per cent of the shares (except directors' qualifying shares) of an 
operations subsidiary (a subsidiary that, at the bank's locations, 
engaged in activities that the bank itself could perform under Federal 
and State law). A State nonmember bank would be limited in the shares 
it could acquire on the basis of section 4(c)(5) in the same manner 
as a State member bank. 
The Legal Division's memorandum stated two reasons for shifting 
from the approach published for comment in January to the approach now 
recommended. First, the January approach was inconsistent with the 
statement that the Bank Holding Company Act regulated holding companies 
and not banks. During the development of the 1970 amendments, consid-
eration had been given to fragmenting the administration of the Act 
among the three Federal bank supervisory agencies. Comments had been 

11 
5/13/71 
-16-
made that expanding the Act to cover one-bank holding companies and 
leaving the administration of the Act in the Board would result in an 
additional layer of bank supervision. The argument that the Act was 
intended to regulate holding companies and not banks had been used in 
rebuttal to those assertions. 
It was noted also that failure to limit the kinds of shares 
that may be acquired by a national bank on the basis of section 4(c)(5) 
might result in banks avoiding the Board's views on what activities are 
closely related to banking. They might convince their supervisory agency 
that the activities in question should be regarded as incidental to bank-
ing and, as such, permissible for the bank itself or for an operations 
subsidiary. On the other hand, that might prove beneficial by prevent-
ing the Board's list of permissible activities from becoming inflexible. 
The second reason for shifting from the January approach was 
that such an approach would not resolve the administrative problems that 
had arisen in applying the operations subsidiary ruling to investments 
by a holding company and its subsidiaries that are not subsidiaries of 
banks. Those problems could be resolved only by not applying that rul-
ing to such investments, and that would be one of the effects of adopting 
the approach now recommended. 
Governor Robertson expressed reservations regarding the proposal 
that national banks in holding company systems should be permitted to 
acquire shares in accordance with the rules of the Comptroller. It 

1149 
5/13/71 
-16-
appeared to him that this procedure might allow the introduction of a 
great variety of operations. 
He thought it would be consistent with 
the overall approach of the Bank Holding Company Act to devise an 
arrangement under which all classes of banks would operate on the same 
basis. The third alternative would permit a holding company to use 
whatever supervisor was most lenient to gain its ends, and therefore 
he preferred the second alternative, on the assumption that there was 
no question regarding legality. 
There ensued a discussion in which the Legal Division presented 
a rationale for its belief that adequate authority existed for adopting 
either the second or third alternative. 
Governor Maisel observed that the third alternative was con-
sistent with the position taken in the statement of principles with 
respect to amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act that the Board 
had issued in February 1969. He believed that the statement should 
be given great weight, and should not be departed from in the absence 
of important reasons. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he had understood that one objective 
was to see that administration of section 4(c)(5) did not make the pro-
visions of section 4(c)(8) ineffective, and the second alternative was 
consistent with that objective. In his view, if national banks chose 
to employ the holding company vehicle, which had advantages as well as 
disadvantages, they should not expect to avoid the disadvantages. He 

1150 
5/13/71 
-16-
regarded the third alternative as in effect turning over to the 
Comptroller decisions regarding what activities were proper for 
national banks in holding company systems. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that the 1969 statement of 
principles should carry great weight, because it was issued during the 
formulation of the legislation. 
There ensued a discussion of the legislative history and the 
considerations surrounding the question of placement of authority for 
administering the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Governor Mitchell then said it seemed to him that adoption of 
the third alternative represented the lesser evil, even though he 
anticipated that different rulings by the Board and the Comptroller 
would result in inconsistency between bank regulation and holding 
company regulation. 
He thought it would be easier to live with the 
third alternative, and it might be hoped that there would be less 
divergence in rulings in the future. 
Governor Daane stated that as a practical matter he would agree 
to the third alternative. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the first alternative 
was the soundest from the legal point of view. However, since the staff 
felt that the second and third alternative were legally justified, he 
believed that the Board should adopt a rule that would lead to the 
soundest overall approach for the long run. In his opinion, all holding 

1151 
5/13/71 
-16-
companies, whether they operated through direct acquisitions or 
indirectly through banks, should be treated the same. Therefore he 
favored the second alternative rather than the third. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting, an amendment to Regulation Y embodying 
the third alternative as recommended by the staff, effective July 1, 
1971. Attached under Item No. 10 are copies of the press release 
announcing this action and of the amendment in the form in which it 
was sent to the Federal Register. 
Section 4(c)(8) implementation. In a memorandum dated May 10, 
1971, the Legal Division recommended that section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act be implemented (except with respect to data process-
ing and insurance) in substantially the manner proposed when comments 
were invited in January 1971. Attached were drafts of an amendment to 
Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, and a related interpretation and 
forms. The recommendation was based upon the Division's analysis of 
comments received and the record of the hearing held on April 14, 1971. 
There was a brief discussion centering principally on notifica-
tion and appeal procedures. However, views were expressed that further 
time was needed for study and that it would be appropriate to consider 
the proposal in conjunction with forthcoming recommendations for delega-
tion to the Federal Reserve Banks of certain bank holding company ques-
tions relating to section 4(c)(8). Action was therefore deferred. 

±±5£ 
5/13/71 
-14-
Section 4(c)(12) delegation. Under Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies, those companies that became bank holding companies by virtue 
of the recent statutory amendments and had decided to divest their 
banking interests by 1981, would file with the Board an irrevocable 
declaration of that intention. Thereafter, unless notified to the con-
trary, they could expand de novo without further action by the Board. 
If they intended to expand through acquisition of a going concern, they 
must give the Reserve Bank 45 days' notice and, unless informed to the 
contrary, they could consummate the acquisition at the conclusion of 
the 45-day period. 
In a memorandum dated May 10, 1971, the Legal Division recom-
mended that the Board delegate to the Reserve Banks the authority to 
determine when a proposal should not be consummated without additional 
inquiry or determination by the Board. A Reserve Bank would not be 
given authority to prohibit acquisitions, but could refer to the Board 
those cases that it questioned, after informing the holding company 
not to consummate the acquisition until further notice. Attached were 
drafts of a delegation of authority and a letter of instruction to the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
The delegation and the letter were approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that the delegation would not be published nor the 
letter transmitted until it could be determined whether any modifica-
tions were called for in light of the decisions expected to be made by 

1153 
5/13/71 
-16-
the Board in the near future regarding delegation of authority under 
section 4(c)(8). (Note: No modifications of substance were subsequently 
made. A copy of the delegation document is attached as Item No. 11 and 
a copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 12.) 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Tri-City Bank. In a memorandum of May 3, 1971, Governor 
Robertson recommended that the Board follow steps proposed in an 
attached memorandum from the Legal Division for supervisory action 
with respect to Tri-City Bank, Warren, Michigan. Specifically, Governor 
Robertson recommended that a letter be issued by the Board and served 
upon the board of directors of the bank that would utilize the same 
consent cease-and-desist procedure that had been followed in other 
recent instances. He recommended also that the Board authorize the 
issuance of a notice of charges, either for the purpose of effectuat-
ing a consent procedure with the bank or, in the event the bank declined 
to consent to such procedure, for the purpose of commencing an adminis-
trative proceeding under the Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 
1966. Drafts of the letter and the notice of charges accompanied the 
staff memorandum. 
After discussion of the unsatisfactory conditions existing in 
Tri-City Bank, the Board unanimously approved the sending of the recom-
mended letter. A copy of the letter, as delivered to the bank, is 
attached under Item No. 13. 

1154 
5/13/71 
-16-
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary, entered the room at 
this point. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York whether Mr. C. Douglas 
Dillon, President of U.S. & International Securities Corporation, would 
accept appointment, if tendered, as a Class C director of the Bank for 
the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1973. 
Annex building. Congressman Patman, in a letter of April 27, 
1971, had again expressed the view that it was not appropriate to name 
the Board's annex building, now under construction, the William McChesney 
Martin Building, and had asked that the matter be reconsidered. 
In discussion, there was general agreement that in the light of 
developments, including the fact that the name had been made public, 
the original decision of the Board (in which Mr. Martin had not partic-
ipated) should not be changed. 
It was brought out also that several 
Federal Government buildings bore the names of individuals. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
Chairman Burns would reply to Mr. Patman against the background of the 
comments that had been made. (Note: A copy of the letter sent by 
Chairman Burns to Congressman Patman is attached as Item No. 14.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

o? Mw;. 
„ 
«AL RESV.-
IIS 
c. 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/13/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 13, 1971 
"First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As 
requested in your letter of March 10, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank 
("FNCB"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold 100 per cent of 
the capital shares of First National City Bank (Nigeria) Ltd., a 
commercial bank to be organized in Lagos, Nigeria ("Nigerian bank"), 
at a cost of approximately $2,100,000, provided such shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of Nigerian bank by FNCB is granted subject to the following condi-
tions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Nigerian bank shall in any manner 
engage in any activity or take any action whatso-
ever that would not be permissible if Nigerian bank 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Nigerian bank as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Nigerian bank be reported under Section 211.8(d) 
of Regulation K in the same manner as if Nigerian 
bank were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 

1156 
First National City Bank 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c5 of Regulation K. 
- * 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

1157 
OfCOv^. 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/13/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 13, 1971 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 6, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank 
("FNCB"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold 100 per cent of 
the capital shares of First National City Bank (Congo), a commercial 
bank to be organized in Kinshasa, Congo ("Congolese bank"), at a 
cost of approximately $500,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter." 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
°f Congolese bank by FNCB is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Congolese bank shall in any manner 
engage in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if Congolese bank were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Congolese bank as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Congolese bank be reported under Section 211.8(d) 
of Regulation K in the same manner as if Congolese 
bank were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 

1158 
First National City Bank 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
~the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

1159 
B O A R D D F G • V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
5/13/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 13, 1971 
Chemical Bank 
20 Pine Street 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 30, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants permission pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Chemical Bank, New York, New York, 
to purchase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of Chemical Bank 
Trustee Company Limited, a trust company to be organized in London, 
England ("Trustee Company"), at a cost of approximately $240,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of Trustee Company by Chemical Bank is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if Trustee Company shall in any manner 
engage in any activity or take any action whatsoever 
that would not be permissible if Trustee Company were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
Chemical Bank will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of Trustee Company as it 
may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Trustee 
Company be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Reg-
ulation K in the same manner as if Trustee Company 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

1160 
Chemical Bank 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is granted with the understanding 
that the activities of Trustee Company will remain those of pro-
viding trustee, nominee, and related services as integral parts of 
the banking business of your branches. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Trustee Company. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No-
5/13/71" 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
st. Louis, Missouri, 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares 
The First National Bank of Cape 
Girardeau, Cape Girardeau, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U,S.C. 
and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, St. 
L°uis, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
e 
° r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
OT* 
^ r e of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Cape 
Girardeau, Cape Girardeau, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
0rnPtroller recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on March 18, 1971 (36 Federal Register 5259), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
Consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
fche factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e£fect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds 
that: 
Applicant, the third largest banking organization and 
third largest bank holding company in Missouri, has six subsidiary 
banks with aggregate deposits of $778 million, representing 7.6 per 
c^nt of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
^ata are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 
and formations approved by the Board through April 30, 
^ 1 * ) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's 
ah 
of commercial bank deposits in the State to 7.8 per cent, and 
^Plicant would become the State's second largest banking organization 
its second largest bank holding company. 

Bank ($24 million deposits), located in the southeast 
portion of Cape Girardeau County, 125 miles south of St, Louis, 
is the second largest of the nine banks in the Cape Girardeau 
banking market, which is approximated by Cape Girardeau County 
and the northern half of Scott County, and holds 25.9 per cent 
of that market's deposits. It; does not appear that Bank occupies 
a dominant position in its market; Bank's rate of deposit growth 
during the last five years has been the slowest of the nine banks 
in the market. Affiliation with Applicant should improve Bank s 
ability to compete more effectively. Applicant's subsidiary 
closest to Bank is located 90 miles northwest, and neither it 
any other of Applicant's subsidiaries compete with Bank to 
a significant extent. Moreover, in light of the distances 
8eParating Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries and Missouri's 
restrictive branching law, the development of such competition 
aPpears unlikely. Consequently, it does not appear that existing 
competition would be eliminated, or significant potential com-
petition foreclosed, by consummation of Applicant's proposal, 
° r that there would be undue adverse effects on any bank in 
th® area involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect 
competition in any relevant area. The financial and managerial 
^sources and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, 

-4' 
1164 
and Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
Although the present banking needs of the Cape Girardeau area appear 
to be adequately served by the existing banking institutions, the 
area is expected to experience continued economic growth. In order 
to make Bank more responsive to the needs of the area, Applicant 
Plans to expand and to improve many of Bank's services, including 
its lending program. These considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the area lend some weight toward approval. 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
° r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
8Uch period shall be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, Hay 13, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
tSEAL] 

1165 
Item No. 5 
5/13/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INCORPORATED, 
North Miami, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f The Second National Bank of North Miami, 
North Miami; Second National Bank of North 
Miami Beach, North Miami Beach; and The 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. 
Petersburg, all in Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(l)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by American Bancshares, Incorporated, 
North Miami, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 

- 2 - 
1 1 6 6 
Hll 
of 80 per cent br more of the voting shares of each of three banks in 
Florida: The Second Natioti&l Bank of North Miami, North Miami 1 Second 
National Banlc of North Miami Beach, North Miami Beach; and The National 
Bank of St. Petersburg, St, Petersburg. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the 
application and requested his views and recommendation. The Acting 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 13, 1971 (36 Federal Register 4917), xrfiich 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
« 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
^ Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
[ s e a t i 
Assistant Secretary 

1167 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INCORPORATED, NORTH MIAMI, FLORIDA 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
\ 
American Bancshares, Incorporated, North Miami, Florida 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
8 0 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Second National Bank 
o f North Miami, North Miami ("North Miami Bank"); Second National Bank 
o f North Miami Beach, North Miami Beach ("North Miami Beach Bank"); and 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg ("St. Petersburg Bank"), 
a3-l in Florida. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
teceipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
guested his views and recommendation. The Acting Comptroller 
^commended approval of the application. 

- 2 -
1168 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
°ther manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
fche anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
sighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
Holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - There are 
a t the present time 19 registered bank holding companies operating in 
the State of Florida, which control 52 per cent of the deposits held by 
all commercial banks in the Stated 
Through the acquisition of North 
Bank ($21 million deposits), North Miami Beach Bank ($3 million 
dePosits), and St. Petersburg Bank ($28 million deposits), Applicant 
^Banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
^°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
Al*il 30, 1971. 

1169 
- 2 -
would become the State's nineteenth largest holding company, with 
control of .4 per cent of the total State deposits, and State-wide 
banking concentration would not be significantly affected. 
Two of the proposed subsidiary banks, North Miami Bank and 
North Miami Beach Bank, are located in the northeast portion of Dade 
County, approximately seven miles apart, and serve separate areas; 
whereas the other proposed subsidiary, St. Petersburg Bank, is located 
in 
Pinellas County, approximately 250 miles from the Miami area. North 
Miami Bank and North Miami Beach Bank hold 8 and 10 per cent, respectively, 
total deposits in the areas they serve, rank as the thirty-fifth and 
si3 
ity-sixth largest of Dade County's 69 banks, and together control 
per cent of county deposits. St. Petersburg Bank holds 41 per cent 
deposits in the area it serves, which encompasses the southwest 
Portion of St. Petersburg, but only 2.4 per cent of Pinellas County 
deposits, and is the sixteenth largest of the 34 banks in the county. 
North Miami Bank has been affiliated with St. Petersburg Bank 
since 1966 and has been affiliated with North Miami Beach Bank since it 
organized as an affiliate in 1969. Common shareholders own 69 per cent 
o f North Miami Bank, 61 per cent of North Miami Beach Bank, and over 
^ Per cent of the St. Petersburg Bank, and the same group would control 
Approximately 56 per cent of Applicant's stock upon consummation of the 
proposai. The three banks are operated by the same executive management, 
a n d there is an interlocking of directorships. There is no significant 

1170 
. 4 -
Present competition among the three proposed subsidiary banks, and due 
to their geographical separation, the number of intervening banks, 
Florida's laws prohibiting branching, and their common ownership it does 
not appear that future competition is likely to develop. Consummation 
°f the proposed formation would effect a reorganization of the three 
affiliated banks under corporate control, and it does not appear that it 
l,ould adversely affect any competing banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
^summation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
Monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant was organized in November 1970 and has not engaged in any 
^usiness activities. Its financial condition and that of its proposed 
Subsidiaries are generally satisfactory, the managements of each are 
c°nsidered competent, and the prospects of each are regarded as favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
^th approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
a*eas served by the two Miami banks in Dade County and by St. Petersburg 
in Pinellas County have experienced substantial growth during the 

- 5 -
117 
last ten years. Whereas these communities are well provided with 
banking services, Applicant's plans to broaden the range of services 
offered at each subsidiary bank would enable them to offer customers 
an additional alternative for these services. Applicant's planned 
services would include trust services and investment advice, payroll 
services for commercial and business accounts, and travel services. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved are consistent with and lend some weight in favor of 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
M aV 13, 1971. 

Item No" 
5/13/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCIAL TRUST COMPANY OF NEW JERSEY, 
Jersey City, New Jersey, 
for approval of acquisition of assets and 
assumption of liabilities of Bergen County 
National Bank of Hackensack, Hackensack, 
New Jersey. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Commercial Trust 
Company of New Jersey, Jersey City, New Jersey ("Commercial Trust"), a 
Member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the merger of that bank with Bergen County National Bank of 
hackensack, Hackensack, New Jersey ("Bergen Bank"), by means of the 
Purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Bergen Bank; as an 
incident to the merger, the present office of Bergen Bank would become 
a branch of Commercial Trust. Notice of the proposed merger, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published as required by said Act. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION FOR 
ACQUISITION OF ASSETS AND 
ASSUMPTION OF LIABILITIES UNDER 
BANK MERGER ACT 

1173 
- 2 -
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
the competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comp-
troller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The Board has considered all relevant material contained in the record 
in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, including the effect 
of the proposal on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
and prospects of the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Commercial Trust ($175 million deposits) operates six offices 
in Jersey City and five additional offices elsewhere in Hudson County. 
i 
During 1970 Commercial Trust opened three branch offices in Bergen 
County, The principal area served by Commercial Trust is Jersey City 
and the southeastern part of Hudson County from which it derives over 
90 per cent of its deposits, and wherein it ranks as the second largest 
the 12 area banks, controlling approximately 17 per cent of area 
deposits. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970.) 
Bergen Bank ($24 million deposits) maintains its sole office, 
and is the smallest of four banks, in the City of Hackensack (Bergen 
County). Commercial Trust holds 5.5 per cent of the deposits in the 
combined Hudson-Bergen County area. Its share of such deposits would 
^crease to 6.3 per cent upon consummation of the proposed merger, 
approval of the proposed transaction would not increase substantially the 
concentration of banking resources in any area. 

- 2 -
37 
The competitive effect of this proposal would be confined 
principally to the City of Hackensack. Commercial Trust has recently 
opened three offices in Bergen County that are situated 9, 7, and 5 
miles from Hackensack in areas which serve mainly as a base for those 
who commute to New York City for employment. Neither Bergen Bank nor 
Commercial Trust derives any significant portion of its business from 
the areas served by the other bank, and the banks serve essentially 
separate banking markets. Consequently, there is no substantial existing 
competition between Commercial Trust and Bergen Bank. Moreover, it does 
not appear that significant potential competition would be eliminated by 
c°nsummation of this proposal since under the home office protection 
forded by State law Commercial Trust could not be permitted to branch 
novo into the City of Hackensack. Bergen Bank is not an aggressive 
competitor to the three larger Hackensack banks, and consummation of this 
merger could serve to enhance the ability of the resulting banking 
°£fice to compete in the area. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposal would not eliminate significant existing 
Potential competition. Considerations pertaining to the financial 
atld managerial resources and future prospects of the banks are con-
sistent with approval of the application. Although the banking needs 
o f the residents of Hackensack are being adequately served at the present 
t i m e by many banking offices of large organizations, it appears that the 

11 
- 4 -
I 
I 
proposed acquisition would replace a conservatively operated institution 
with a more aggressive competitor in the Hackensack area, enlarge 
present services offered to Bergen Bank's customers, and provide another 
source of specialized services now being offered only by the larger 
Hackensack banks. Therefore, convenience and needs considerations are 
consistent with and lend some support to approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed merger would 
be in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the merger so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

BOARD DF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
5/13/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 14, 1971 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board will interpose no objection to the Bank's 
proceeding with the development of programs to determine future 
space requirements for the San Francisco Head office and the 
Los Angeles Branch as outlined in your letter of April 7, 1971. 
The program projections of employee and space requirements from 
now to 30 years from estimated move-in date, referred to as 
Stage 1(a) in the "building guidelines," should be forwarded 
for review before proceeding with the schematic design phase. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

1177 
B D A R D O F G • V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 8 
5/13/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T N 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 13, 1971 
Mr. George H. Clay 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
Referring to your April 9, 1971, letter, the Board of 
Governors approves the transfer of the State of Wyoming from the 
Omaha Branch zone to the Denver Branch zone. 
Please notify the Board when the effective date of the 
change is determined. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

1178 
CHAIRMAN O F THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
5/13/71 
Item No. 9 
M a y 19, 1971 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made with 
your Committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
on financial developments in the first quarter of 1971. 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

Item No. 10 
5/13/71 
For release in morning papers 
May 14, 1971 
Monday, May 17, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Announced a regulatory amendment, effective July 1, specifying the kinds 
°f activities in which subsidiaries of bank holding companies may engage 
°n the basis of section 4(c)5 of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
That section relates to the acquisition by a holding company 
of shares eligible for investment by a national bank. Under the amend-
ment, bank holding companies may acquire shares that are explicitly 
eligible for investment by a national bank under Federal statute law, 
Such as shares of a small business investment company. Banks in a holding 
company are not so restricted. National banks in a holding company may 
ac"uire shares in accordance with the rules of the Comptroller of the 
Currency. So far as Federal law is concerned, State-chartered banks in a 
Elding company may acquire shares in accordance with the rules of the 
B°ard. 
Action by the Board was taken in connection with its over-all 
Plar* to implement the "Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970." The 
ard has under consideration a proposed list of ten activities to be re-
d d e d under section 4(c)8 of the Act as closely related to banking, or 
uianao-f 
aSing or controlling banks, and thus permissible for bank holding 
C°mPanies subject to Board approval in individual cases. 
A copy of the amendment relating to section 4(c)5 is attached. 

1180 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A-BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Acquisition of Shares Eligible for Investment by National Banks 
In its notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Register on January 29, 1971 (36 F.R. 1430), the Board of Governors 
indicated that it was considering limiting the scope of acquisitions 
by bank holding companies that may be made on the basis of § 4(c)(5) 
of the Act. Under that section, the prohibition against holding com-
panies acquiring interests in nonbanking organizations does not apply 
to shares of the kinds and amounts eligible for investment by national 
banks under the provisions of § 5136 of the Revised Statutes. 
As indicated in that notice, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act as 
amended by the 1970 amendments the Board is required to consider 
acquisitions by a bank holding company on the basis of that section 
not only from the standpoint of whether the activities of the company 
to be acquired are closely related to banking, but also from the 
standpoint of antitrust and related public interest considerations. 
In view of that responsibility, the Board believes that it 
should exercise its general regulatory authority over holding companies 
under § 5 of the Act to limit the scope of activities that may be 
engaged in on the basis of § 4(c)(5). In January the Board indicated 

1181 
- 
2 -
1' 
i 
that it was considering limiting the permissible activities of all 
subsidiaries established in the future under § 4(c)(5) to those 
engaged ih lending and fiduciary activities commenced dje novo, 
except where the shares involved are of the kinds and amounts 
explicitly eligible for investment by a national bank under Federal 
statute law. 
The Board has reexamined this matter in the light of 
comments received and concluded as follows: 
(1) The Board should not at this time apply restrictions to 
subsidiaries of banks. This decision is believed warranted by con-
siderations of equity between banks that are and are not members of 
bank holding companies and by the absence of evidence that acquisitions 
by holding company banks are resulting in evasions of the purposes of 
the Act. The merits of this decision will be reviewed by the Eoard 
frora time to time in the light of its experience in administering 
the Act. 
(2) The Board should limit the acquisitions that may be made 
°n the basis of § 4(c)(5) by holding companies and their subsidiaries 
that are not banks or subsidiaries of banks to shares of the kinds 
amounts explicitly eligible for investment by a national bank 
under Federal statute law. This decision will facilitate the orderly 
^"iinist ratio n of the Act by avoiding to the extent possible the need 
f o r interpretations of the scope of § 4(c)(5) relating to permissible 
activities, perraisoible locations, and applicable limitations as to 
Arrowing and lending powers. 

- 3 - 
1 1 8 2 
To implement these decisions, the Board has adopted the 
following amendment to § 222.4 of its Regulation Y: 
§ 222.4 Nonbankin^ activities. 
* 
* 
* 
(e) Activities of companies in which national banks may 
invest. No bank holding company or subsidiary thereof that is not . 
a bank or subsidiary of a bank may, after June 30, 1971, acquire 
shares on the basis of § 4(c)(5) of the Act unless such shares are 
o£ the kinds and amounts explicitly eligible by Federal statute for 
investment by a national bank. A national bank or a subsidiary 
thereof may acquire or retain shares on the basis of § 4(c)(5) in 
accordance with the rules and regulations of the Comptroller of the 
Currency. So far as Federal law is concerned, a State-chartered 
bank or a subsidiary thereof may (1) acquire or retain shares on 
the basis of § 4(c)(5) if such shares are of the kinds and amounts 
explicitly eligible by Federal statute for investment by a national 
bank and (2) acquire or retain all (but, except for directors' 
qualifying shares, not less than all) of the shares of a company 
that engages solely in activities in which the parent bank may engage, 
at locations at which the bank may engage in the activity, and subject 
to the same limitations as if the bank were engaging in the activity 
directly. 
Effective date: July 1, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1971. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carraichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmicnoel 
[SEAL] 
Assistant Secretary 

1183 
Item No. 11 
5/13/71 
TITLE i 2—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A-BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
„.. v ^ ' 
Nonbank Acquisitions by Certain One-Bank Holding Companies 
Effective March 18, 1971, the Board implemented its 
authority to impose conditions upon bank holding company acquisitions 
and expansions on the basis of section 4(c) (12) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Under the amendment, acquisitions of a going concern 
by a company that become, a bank holding company as a result of the 
^70 amendments and has elected to divest itself of its bank may 
formally be isade following a simple notification procedure. The 
Board has delegated to the Reserve Banks authority to administer 
that procedure. 
Tha delegation is reflected in the following amendment 
to 5 205.2(f) of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority: 
S 2 G 5 * 2 
Specific functions dele&atedij-io.393rd employees and 
Federal Reserve Bonks, 
•v 
* 
* 
* 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bank is authorized, as to member 
kanks or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 

1184 
- 2 -
• "'j 
• 
,: 
• i • - / 
(19) Under S 222.4(d) of this Chapter (Regulation Y), 
(i> to notify a bank holding company that has informed it 
of a proposed acquisition of a going concern that, because the circum-
stances surrounding the application indicate that additional information 
is required or that the acquisition should be considered by the Board, 
the acquisition should not be consummated until specifically authorized 
by the Reserve Bank or by the Board. 
(ii) to permit a bank holding company that: has informed it 
of a proposed acquisition of a going concern to make the acquisition 
before the expiration of the 45-day period referred to in that para-
graph, because exigent circumstances justify consummation of the 
acquisition at an earlier time. 
Vc 
it 
* 
Effective date. This amendment is effective Hay 21, 1971 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 13, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(.SEAL) 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
U. 
C. 20551 
li'.-y: 
S-2160 
Item No. 12 
5/13/71 
A D D K E D S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q H R E S F ' O N D E N ' C E 
i o 
THE: 
H O A R D 
May 24, 1971 
Enclosed .in Federal Register form is a copy of an amendment 
t o the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 265). 
•^he amendment, which is effective May 21, 1971, delegates to the 
Reserve Banks the authority to determine when to delay, or permit 
GxPedition of, an acquisition under § 4(c)(12) of the Bank Holding 
c°mpany Act and § 222.4(d) of Regulation Y. 
Section 222.4(d) provides that a holding company which has 
M 
^ with its Reserve Bank, in approved.form, an irrevocable declara-
lon that it will cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 
may acquire an interest in a going concern 45 days after not ify-
the Reserve Bank of the proposed acquisition, unless notified to 
contrary within that time or unless permitted to make the acnuisi— 
xon at an earlier date, based on exigent circumstances of a particular 
Under the delegation, the Reserve Banks are authorized, when-
0lr
 r 
circumstances appear to warrant consideration by the Board 
whenever further information is required, to notify the holding 
^ Pany that the acquisition cannot be consummated until further notice 
tio ^ G s e r v e Banks 
also authorized, where consistent with the regula-
At n> t o permit such an acquisition to be consummated in less than 
° days. 
a 
Consistent with Congressional intent in enacting § 4(c)(12), 
a folding company that has filed an irrevocable 
^ 
^ration under § 222.4(d) normally should be permitted to be consum 
He..^' Permitting consummation within the 45-dav period after the 
Vjv ., V g Bank has been notified of the proposal should depend mainly on 
e0
 
G r the Reserve Bank has had time to give the matter appropriate 
^ideration. 

In deciding whether a proposed acquisition is appropriate, 
the Reserve. Bank should consider the period of time for which the 
company will likely continue to own its bank, and base its decision 
°n its judgment as to whether common ownership for that period of time 
°f the bank and the company to be acquired may present undue dangers 
to the bank or to competitors of the bank or the company t:o be acquired 
Undue danger to the bank would be indicated where, for example, the 
bank has been criticized in the past for loans to its nonbanking 
affiliates, the holding company, or related interests. In order to 
satisfy itself on this question, the Reserve Bank should review the 
bank's examination report or seek the advice of the bank's supervisor. 
Acquisitions by a holding company which has filed the 
Appropriate irrevocable declaration need not be closely related to 
bankings Therefore, the absence of such a relationship is not, in 
itself, a cause for concern. 
It is anticipated that, with respect to most acquisitions 
Under § 4(c)(1.2), competitive considerations will not present serious 
Sections. If the company to be acquired is not located within the 
Subsidiary bank's market, no further investigation of competitive 
c£fects of the proposal would ordinarily be necessary; such would 
q I Q O appear true, even if the company to be acquired is located 
v?ithin that market, if the bank and affiliated deposit-type institu-
tions have only a small share of the deposits and loans in the area, 
however, the subsidiary bank and other denosit-type institutions 
within the holding company organization have a large share of the 
^tket, the acquisition of a large company within that market would 
^arrant closer inquiry. If in doubt in any particular case, the 
Banking Markets Section of the Board's Research Division should be 
c°neulted. 
If, after such further inquiry as it considers necessary, 
Reserve Bank continues to have reservations with respect to the 
^r°posal, the matter should be referred to the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
^losure 
^ankg and branches) 
cm, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Ti!E PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1187 
ii 
X 
l 
NUMBER 
NOT 
USED 

118 
F E D E R A L 
R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 0 5 B I 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E : 
O F THE: VICE: 
C H A I R M A N 
I t e m N o . 
13 
5 / 1 3 / 7 1 
May 13, 1971 
DELIVERY BY M N P 
Board of Directors 
Tri-City Bank 
Warren, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
Section 202(b)(1), et seq., of the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966 (the "Act"), 12 U.S.C. 1818(b)(1), et seq., 
provides that a Notice of Charges may be issued by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (hereinafter "Board"), if, 
in the Board's opinion, a member State bank has engaged in any unsafe 
or unsound banking practice. The Act also provides for a hearing to 
be conducted within a prescribed time period after the issuance of 
such a Notice of Charges and for the issuance of cease-and-desist 
orders as appropriate. If any such practice found to exist involves 
personal dishonesty on the part of any director or officer of a 
member State bank, and the institution may be damaged thereby, the 
Act provides that the offending director or officer may be removed 
from office (12 U.S.C. 1818(e)(1)). 
The Board is of the opinion that Tri-City Bank, a member 
State bank (hereinafter "Bank"), has engaged in unsafe or unsound 
banking practices which have placed Bank in a hazardous condition to 
which unacceptable asset condition and illiquidity are major con-
tributing factors. The Board is of the view that Bank's present 
condition arises in significant part from the use of brokered deposits 
^nd concentrations of credit extended to various borrowers. Accord-
ingly, the Board believes that Bank must undertake the following 
remedial steps: 
1(a). Bank shall not accept any deposit placed in Bank 
Pursuant to any arrangement whereby Bank or any borrower is to pay 
ar*y fee or other remuneration whatsoever to any money broker or 
any other person other than a Bank employee for services rendered 
l n obtaining such deposit except upon the express written prior 
aPproval of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 

52 
Tri-City Bank 
-4-
1(b). 
Bank shall make no extension of credit to any borrower—^ 
on the condition or understanding that any depositor other than the 
borrower is to make any deposit whatsoever in Bank. 
Bank shall at 
the earliest date permitted by the credit contract, or at such other 
time as shall be considered reasonable by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago by written communication to Bank upon application by Bank, 
obtain repayment of any such extension of credit presently outstand-
ing, including, but not limited to, such extensions of credit 
presently outstanding to Leon Fill and his beneficial interests, 
Primeat Packing Company, I.C.A. Corp. and Richard MLcheel, Valley 
Die Cast Corp., A.H.C.P. of Michigan and Butler Corporation. 
1(c). Bank shall make no extension of credit to any 
borrower which exceeds in the aggregate the sum of 20 per centum 
of Bank's capital stock actually paid in and unimpaired, its surplus, 
undivided profits and valuation reserves; Bank shall at the earliest 
date permitted by the credit contract, or at such other time as shall 
be considered reasonable by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago by 
written communication to Bank upon application by Bank, obtain re-
payment of any such extension of credit presently outstanding. As 
used in this paragraph, borrower includes any partnership, associa-
tion or corporation in which the borrower has a direct, indirect or 
beneficial interest of 25 per centum or more. 
1(d). Bank shall at the earliest date permitted by the 
credit contract, or at such other time as shall be determined to be 
reasonable by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago by written communi-
cation to Bank upon application by Bank, obtain repayment of any 
outstanding extension of credit to Joseph F. Verhelle; all future 
extensions of credit made by Bank to Joseph F. Verhelle shall in all 
respects conform to the requirements and the limitations contained 
in section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation 0 of the 
Board of Governors (12 CFR 215). 
v. 
.1/ As used in this letter, the term "extension of credit to any 
borrower" means the making of any loan or extension of credit in 
any manner whatsoever to such borrower and shall include, but not 
be limited to, the liability of any such borrower to Bank as maker, 
drawer, endorser, guarantor or surety. 

Tri-City Bank 
-3-
2(a). The aggregate amount of loans- held by Bank shall 
not exceed: 
After July 1, 1971 
$11,350,000 
After October 1, 1971 
$11,100,000 
After January 1, 1972 
$10,850,000 
After April 1, 1972 
$10,600,000 
After July 1, 1972 
$10,350,000 
After October 1, 1972 
$10,100,000 
After January 1, 1973 
$ 9,850,000 
After April 1, 1973 
$ 9,600,000 
After July 1, 1973 
$ 9,350,000 
After October 1, 1973 
$ 9,100,000 
2(b). The amount set forth in 2(a)., above, opposite each 
date may be increased at the discretion of Bank by 70 per cent of 
the amount by which Bank's daily average of total deposits for the 
six calendar months ending on each such date exceeds $12,940,000. 
—
— 
2/ The term "loans" as used herein means loans to be reported on 
lines 7, 8, and 12 of the Consolidated Reports of Condition (Form 
F.R. 105 Revised June 1969) filed by Bank with the Board, and as 
further defined on pages 22 through 34 in Instructions for the 
Preparation of Reports of Condition by State Member Banks of the 
Federal Reserve System (Form F.R. 105a Revised December 1970) issued 
by the Board, and the term "loans" shall be deemed to also include 
any direct, contingent or potential liability incurred as a result 
of the sale after the date of the issuance of this letter of any 
loan or any portion or pool thereof. However, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago shall have authority upon written request to exclude 
from "loans" herein the amount of credit extended to any banking 
institution. 

1191 
Tri-City Bank 
-4-
The remedial steps which are set forth above are minimal 
needs, intended to deal solely with present hazardous condition of 
Bank and, therefore, should not be interpreted as assuring Bank's 
safe and sound operation or acceptable condition. 
In the public interest the Board hereby makes available 
to Bank its consent cease-and-desist procedure. Under this proce-
dure Bank may consent to a cease-and-desist order to be issued pur-
suant to the Act, The order would contain the substantive provisions 
set forth in paragraphs 1. and 2., above. Issuance of the order would 
obviate the present need for any administrative proceeding and hearing. 
In accordance with the usual practice in such matters, the cease-and-
desist order would contain a provision stating that the order is issued 
before commencement of any hearing or adjudication of or finding on 
any issue of fact or law and does not constitute an admission of any 
nature. Under the terms of the Act the order would remain effective 
and enforceable as provided except to the extent that such order or 
any provision thereof is stayed, modified, terminated, suspended or 
set aside by the Board. 
In the absence of Bank's consent to issuance of a cease-
and-desist order, the Board will issue a Notice of Charges, commenc-
ing an administrative proceeding under the terms of the Act and 
providing for a hearing to be conducted for the purpose of obtaining 
relief from any unsafe or unsound practice which is found to exist 
upon the record. You are hereby advised that, pursuant to the Act, 
the proceeding may be made public if the Board determines it to be 
in the public interest. 
Your Bank is hereby allowed 10 days from receipt of this 
letter within which to advise the Board in writing whether Bank pro-
poses to follow the consent cease-and-desist procedure described herein. 
Very truly yours, 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
I t e m No. 14 
5 / 1 3 / 7 1 
1192 
May 17, 1971 
sr 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In your letter of April 27, you requested that the Board 
reconsider the decision made in 1969 to name the annex 
building in honor of Mr. Martin. As I am sure you are 
aware, the Board always gives serious attention to your 
inquiries and attempts to deal constructively with any 
questions you raise. 
The Board members have now given very careful 
consideration to your suggestion; but they believe 
there were valid reasons underlying their earlier 
decision, and they believe there is no satisfactory 
or gracious basis on which to alter that decision. 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 20515 
V; 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
