MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 29, 1969 

r 5 t > y 
Ami i . ' 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 29, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on September 22, the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis on September 24, the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, 

2 9 6 
9/29/69 
-2-
Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on September 25, 
and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on September 26, 1969, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Other actions. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been furnished 
to the Board. Copies are attached under the numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Director of the Research 
1 
Department of the New York Stock Exchange 
regarding changes in reporting procedures 
for the margin debt statistical series. 
Letters (1) to corporations whose stock was 
2-3 
now on the Board's List of Over-the-Counter 
Margin Stocks and (2) to corporations whose 
stock was not now on that list, requesting 
information for use in connection with revi-
sions of the list. 
Letter to Chairman Scanlon of the Conference 
4 
of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
indicating the Board's approval of proposed 
Systemwide Guidelines and Objectives for 
Health Insurance for employees and retirees 
°f the Federal Reserve Banks except for 
certain points on which revisions were recom-
mended for consideration by the Conference. 
Question regarding retention of Edge corporation investment. 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated September 26, 1969, from 
the Legal Division and the Division of Supervision and Regulation regard 
i n8 a question raised by Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 

9/29/69 
-3-
New York, New York, with respect to the proposed consolidation of 
Standard Bank Ltd., a British bank in which it owned a 14.5 per cent 
interest, with Chartered Bank, another British bank operating princi-
pally in the Near East and Far East. Under a proposal now being 
negotiated, shareholders of both banks would exchange their shares 
for stock in a holding company that would hold all of the shares of 
both banks. Exchange of its existing shares in Standard Bank would 
give Chase a 10 per cent interest in the new holding company, and 
it anticipated purchasing enough additional shares to bring its 
ownership interest to 15 per cent. The question raised by Chase related 
to possible conflict of its ownership of the new shares with statutory 
provisions governing investments by Edge corporations. The need to 
have the question answered was somewhat urgent because extensive specu-
lation had developed in the shares of both British banks, the answer 
could have a material bearing upon the merger negotiations, and under 
British rules the status of Chase Manhattan Overseas in the future 
organization was required to be disclosed when the proposed merger 
terms were published. 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act provides that an Edge 
corporation may not hold stock in any company "transacting any business 
in the United States except such as in the judgment of the Board . . . 
roay be incidental to its international or foreign business." Chartered 

96 
9/29/69 
-4-
Bank at present had two branches in New York City, a subsidiary bank 
in San Francisco with branches in Oakland and Los Angeles, and an 
agency in San Francisco. Thus, for Chase Manhattan Overseas to be 
able to hold stock in the new holding company, the Board would have 
to render a judgment that the business of Chartered Bank's offices 
in the United States was "incidental" to its international and foreign 
business. 
The California subsidiary of Chartered Bank appeared to be 
conducting a full-scale commercial banking business in California, 
providing real estate financing, consumer instalment lending, and 
general business financing. Out of almost $30 million in loans, only 
about 10 per cent was estimated to represent foreign or international 
financing, and out of $21 million of deposits of individuals, partner-
ships, and corporations, about $4 million was estimated to be incidental 
to international transactions„ Information on Chartered Bank's agency 
in San Francisco and its branch in New York was sketchy, but it appeared 
that the bulk of their business was of an international nature. 
The memorandum reviewed the previous treatment by the Board of 
the question of domestic activities of corporations in which Edge 
corporations had an interest and noted that the Board had a degree of 
latitude in determining what activities were "incidental" to inter-
national business. Nevertheless, to go very far would seem to deprive 
t-O •,*>' ! 
the statutory language of meaning. 

9/29/69 
-5-
Accordingly, the staff believed that the holding by Chase 
of shares in the proposed holding company would not be appropriate 
unless Chartered Bank were to confine its activities in the United 
States essentially to those permissible to an Edge corporation. If 
the bank were to agree to such a restriction on its U.S. activities, 
there might be reason to make specific exemption for certain activi-
ities on a case-by-case basis. Moreover, following such an agreement, 
it would seem reasonable to allow Chartered Bank to collect payments 
on existing holdings and to allow a certain grace period (say, one 
to two years) for the bank to bring its other activities into confor-
mity. During the grace period, however, it would be expected that no 
new purely domestic assets would be acquired and no other purely 
domestic business would be solicited. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter reflecting 
the staff's position. 
In response to inquiries, it was indicated that the proposal 
to allow a grace period for Chartered Bank to liquidate its domesti-
cally-oriented activities had appeared to provide an acceptable 
solution of the problem during a recent conference with representatives 
of the Chase organization, although it remained to be known whether it 
would be acceptable to Chartered Bank. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that it would not be realistic 
to expect the California bank immediately to stop making loans to or 

J c B V O 
9/29/69 
-6-
accepting deposits from its domestic customers. Instead, he believed 
it would be reasonable to assume that Chartered Bank would have to 
sell its retail subsidiary. He suggested that that possibility be 
recognized in the letter. 
The tenor of the ensuing discussion was in favor of including 
in the letter a paragraph incorporating Governor Maisel's suggestion, 
although some question was raised whether Chartered Bank would be 
willing to sell its California subsidiary. 
Mr. Solomon reported that an inquiry had been made this morning 
whether the Board would consider the situation within the bounds of 
permissibility if Chartered Bank reduced its total ownership of the 
California subsidiary to between 40 and 49 per cent. Retention of 
that percentage would permit it to exercise control, which it was 
reluctant to relinquish since the subsidiary was just beginning to 
operate profitably after a substantial outlay to set up the subsidiary 
relationship. 
Chairman Martin observed that the problem arose because of 
the domestically-oriented nature of the subsidiary's business rather 
than the percentage of ownership. He agreed with Governor Maisel's 
suggestion that it be made clear that the California subsidiary bank 
should be disposed of if the Edge corporation was to own an interest 
in the holding company. 

/ 1 
9/29/69 
-7-
Mr. Hexter referred to the proposed grace period and inquired 
whether the Board was being put in a position where it was under 
pressure to permit an arrangement that it might be unwilling to allow 
if the question had been submitted in a more timely manner. 
There followed a discussion in which Governor Daane suggested 
that a year might be a reasonable period to allow for arranging a 
sale, and Governor Maisel mentioned that another possibility would be 
to put the stock in escrow. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he found the staff memorandum 
persuasive and expressed the view that if the California subsidiary 
was to retain its present nature, it would be improper for the Board 
to allow an Edge corporation to own an interest in it. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
approved the letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
revised to include the passage suggested by Governor Maisel. A copy 
of the letter in the form in which it was sent is attached as Item No. 5. 
Meeting schedules. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated September 23, 1969, from the Office of the Secretary regarding 
schedules for meetings of the Federal Advisory Council and the Federal 
Open Market Committee. 
At its September 1969 meeting the Federal Advisory Council 
had offered to shift the dates of its regular meetings from the third 

O Q > 7 
/ 
9/29/69 
-8-
Tuesday (and preceding Monday) of the months of February, May, Septem-
ber, and November of each year to the first Friday (and preceding 
Thursday) of those months, beginning in 1970. The Council intended 
to amend its by-laws to that effect if the Board and the Reserve 
Banks were in favor of the changed schedule. It was recommended that 
the Board accept the Council's offer, it being understood that if 
the Board did so the Reserve Bank Presidents would be asked if they had 
any objection. 
Three alternative schedules for meetings of the Federal Open 
Market Committee were attached to the memorandum, pursuant to a request 
that the staff review the desirability of a third-Tuesday meeting 
schedule, looking to 1970 and later years. Alternatives presented 
were the conventional schedule that had been followed in recent years 
and new schedules calling for meetings once a month or once every 
four weeks. The staff was inclined toward the new schedules, with 
opinion divided between the monthly and four-week schedules. Consid-
erations bearing upon the relative advantages and disadvantages of 
the alternatives were discussed in the memorandum. It was recommended 
that the Board approve transmittal to the Committee of the three 
alternative schedules. 
After discussion, the Board accepted the changed schedule 
suggested by the Federal Advisory Council for its meetings and approved 

2973 
9/29/69 
-9-
unanimously the submission to the Federal Open Market Committee of 
the three alternative meeting schedules the staff had developed. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Lincoln Bank and Trust Company, Stamford, Connecticut, into 
Hartford National Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
There is little existing competition between Hartford 
National Bank and Trust Company and Lincoln Bank and Trust 
Company, Stamford; however, there is some limited potential 
for competition between them through do novo branching. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to reports, for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved in the 
following proposed mergers, designed to facilitate acquisition of the 
existing bank by a holding company, the conclusion in each case stating 
that consummation of the proposed merger would, in itself, have no 
adverse competitive effects: 
Proposed merger of Coshocton National Bank, Coshocton, 
Ohio, and National Bank of Coshocton; 
Proposed merger of First National Bank of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, Ohio, with The Guernsey County National Bank, 
also of Cambridge. 

2 9 7 4 
9/29/69 
-10-
First at Orlando Corporation. There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on 
August 27, 1969, of the application of First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of The Citizens State Bank, 
St. Cloud, Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 6. 
Security Financial Services. There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on 
August 12, 1969, of the application of Security Financial Services, 
Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of Security First National Bank of Sheboygan, 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and South-West State Bank, also of Sheboygan. 
A dissenting statement by Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer also 
had been distributed. 
During discussion, Governor Maisel indicated that he had 
requested the staff to add certain material to the dissenting statement. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 7, along with a copy of the dissenting 
statement, as issued. 
Bank of Vicksburg. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated September 22, 1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 

•"JtflV'f tf 
9/29/69 
-11-
regarding the application of Bank of Vicksburg, Vicksburg, Mississippi, 
a newly-organizing bank, for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The State Banking Board had denied the organizers a charter on the 
ground that there was no need for another bank in Vicksburg. Upon 
appeal, the Chancery Court of Warren County reversed the Banking 
Board's decision and ordered the State Comptroller of Banks to issue 
a charter. The Banking Board had appealed to the State Supreme Court. 
The organizers of the bank could now legally proceed to open 
the bank and had inquired through the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
whether the Board of Governors would act upon the membership applica-
tion even though an appeal was pending. 
The Reserve Bank, on the basis of an investigation made at 
the time the application was filed, had been prepared to recommend 
approval. The community of Vicksburg had a population of about 29,000 
and was served by only two banks, each of which had deposits of about 
$25 million. However, the recommendation of Vice President Stephenson, 
in which President Kimbrel concurred, was that the Board not act on 
the application until the State Supreme Court had rendered its decision. 
Mr. Stephenson cited as reasons for his recommendation that (1) there 
was no real urgency to open the bank; (2) if the Chancery Court should 
be reversed and the new bank had to close, that would be undesirable 
from a public standpoint and might involve loss to the bank's stock-
holders; (3) the State Supreme Court might consider that by approving 

< } , o 
9/29/69 
-12-
the membership application the Board was putting pressure on the 
Court for a favorable ruling; and (4) the relations of the Atlanta 
Reserve Bank with the State Banking Department might be jeopardized. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that 
the Board authorize Vice President Stephenson to inform the organizers 
of Bank of Vicksburg that their application for membership would be 
held in suspense until a decision was made by the State Supreme 
Court. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation of the 
Division. 
Foreign travel. The Board unanimously approved the request 
of the Agency for International Development for the services of Henry F. 
Lee, Economist in the Division of International Finance, for a period 
of from six to eight weeks beginning early in October 1969, to advise 
the Ministry of Finance of Korea in the management of its foreign 
exchange assets and its foreign debts. It was understood that the 
Agency for International Development would reimburse the Board for 
Mr. Lee's salary plus any allowances to which he was entitled, and 
would provide for travel, per diem, and other incidental expenses. 
Money market review. At this point staff members of the 
research divisions entered and presented a money market review consist-
ing of reports on the Government securities market, bank credit, and 

2 9 * 7 7 
9/29/69 
-13-
foreign exchange markets. Copies of the documentation furnished in 
connection with the review have been placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

'•J i 
m m : 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
9/29/69 
A D D R F E S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E . 
T O 
T H E 
( J C 1 A R L ' 
October 1, 1969 
Mr. Stan West, Director, 
Research Department, 
New York Stock Exchange, 
18th Floor, 
11 Wall Street* 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear Stan: 
As you know, the Board staff, in cooperation with your 
research staf::, has subjected the margin debt series to very careful 
review over the past year. The results of this review have been 
summarized in two documents, copies of which have been supplied to 
you: "Measures of Margin Credit Extended ty Brokers" and "Margin 
Panel Evaluation." 
These papers provide detailed evaluation of the strength 
and weaknesses of the present margin debt and status of account 
estimates. On the basis of that evaluation it is apparent that changes 
in existing reporting procedures are needed. Our present measure of 
margin account: credit is an estimate derived from CNDB's as reported 
on MF-5 and margin debt reported by the margin panel sample of 37 firms. 
For the specific reasons contained in these papers, the Board staff 
proposes that the following changes be made in reporting procedures: 
(1) The_MF-5 rfr£o_rt_ should be di scontinucd. 1 n its 
present form, reported CNDB's are virtually meaning-
less in the context of margin debt. These data not 
only fluctuate sharply according to fails-oriented 
debits in cash accounts, but also are distorted 
because of a lack of uniformity among firms in pro-
cedures for netting of balances in customer accounts. 
The use of CNDB's in deriving universe estimates of 
margin debt from the margin panel sample has made 
estimates of month-to-month change in margin debt 
subject to indeterminate error. 

Mr. Stan West. 
-2 
(2) In place of the MF-5, all irembers of the New York 
Stock Exchange carrying more than $2 million of 
margin debt as of the prevlous FR 240 report 
(collected each June 30)'wculd report to the 
Exchange the following dat£: (1) margin debt in 
stock accounts, (2) margin debt in convertible bond 
accounts, (3) margin debt in subscription accounts, 
(4) free credit balances in cash accounts, and 
(5) free credit balances in margin accounts. These 
items correspond to items 5a, 5b,. 5c, 15a, and 15b 
in the current annual FR 240 report. 
The proposed change would provide the Federal Reserve 
Board with timely and highly accurate estimates of 
the important magnitudes required to implement Board 
policy regarding margin requirements and with an 
improved basis for estimating status of accounts 
information. In this regard, estimates of margin 
credit extended in stock, cDnvertible bond, and sub-
scription accounts are required separately since 
separate decisions are made on the level of margin 
requirements applicable to each of these three categorie 
Finally, the proposed disaggregation of free credit 
balances would be valuable to both the Board and to 
your staff as a means of judging both liquidity and 
potential purchasing power. 
Once adopted, the modifications should involve little 
if any additional reporting burden; the five items 
now called for in the MF-5 would be replaced by five 
new items. Moreover, the procedure for excusing 
reports from firms extending small amounts of margin 
credit v/ould, on the basis of June 30, 196S data, 
release from any reporting burden 131 firms, 37 per 
cent of the firms carrying margin debt. The firms 
which are eliminated are likely to be those which are 
not automated. These 131 firms, as of June 1969, 
carried only 2.3 per cent of margin debt. 
(3) We propose that regular reporting on the new form 
begin in June 19 70. This would allow 9 months for 
your Board and the SEC to consider the proposal and 
for considerable advance notice to member firms. 
Moreover, since the 5 items will also be reported 
on the FR 240 to be collected that June, difficulties 
encountered by respondents in interpreting and 
accurately completing the new report would be minimized. 
2979 

Mr. Stan West, 
-3-
2380 
(4) The data should reflect all transactions settled 
as of the last business day of the month. We would 
appreciate your opinion as to the ease with which 
firms could adhere to this suggestion and the degree 
to which the reports would, In fact, deviate from 
this suggested date. 
(5) We would hope that reports oC the aggregates can be 
supplied to the Board within 15 days alter the end 
of the month. 
As a suggestion, we are enclosing our proposed reporting 
form for your member firms. Changes can, of course, be worked out 
between the staffs of the Exchange and the :3oard. 
Status of account statistics collected from the margin panel 
present a different set of problems, and should be considered separately. 
It is our hope that in the near future we can mutually re-structure and 
expand the present margin panel to obtain better status of account 
estimates, Mr. Ettin, I understand, will be. working with you over comine 
months on this problem. 
On behalf of the Board, T. would like again to thank you, your 
staff, and the New York Stock Exchange for the continued cooperation 
extended to the Board staff in developing and improving broker margin 
debt statistics. Such data are essential to the Board in carrying out 
its statutory obligations in the area of margin regulations. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed)J. Charles Partee 
J. Charles Partee, 
Adviser to the. Board 
and Director, 
Division of Research end Statistics. 
Enclosure. 

3 3 
fi^x S O 
- A -
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/29/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
S0B31 
AHor.r.eir. o ^ f i o i A L c i u t m i r o N M H t t 
T D 
T H I 
H 0 A < * 0 
- 
'.1 - 
• , 
As you .-ire probably aware, on the basis of published statis-
tics and data that your company submitted to the Board .last year, the 
stock oL: your corporation appears on the List of OTC Margin Stocks, 
published for the first time on July 8, 1969, by the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System. The list is comprised of stocks 
traded over the counter (OTC) that have been determined by the Board, 
pursuant to legislation enacted by Congress In 1968, to be such that 
credit extended to purchase or carry the stocks should be subject to 
margin regulation. 
Requirements for inclusion on the H s t are set forth in sec-
tion 207.2(f) of the Board's Regulation G, "Securities Credit; by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers," section 220.2(e) of the Board's 
Regulation T, " C r e d i t by Broker* and Dealers," and section 221.3(d) of 
the Board's Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
or Carrying Margin Stocks," and in the Supplements to the regulations. 
Copies 'of the list and the regulations are enclosed fcr your convenient 
reference. 
The Board, of course, has the responsibility to maintain the 
list on a current basis. Judging from statistics published since your 
corporation was surveyed last year, the stock of your corporation appears 
to continue to possess characteristics that may support its continued 
inclusion on the List of OTC Margin Stocks. To supplement and verify 
the information we have, it would be appreciated if you would complete 
the enclosed Form F.R. 48, Survey of Selected Corporation, and return 
one copy to the Board in the enclosed self-addressed envelope. We 
would appreciate receiving the data aa soon as possible and wltnin 
three weeks of the date of this letter. Should it prove impossible 

jfor you to send the requested information within this period, or if you 
W e any questions, please call Mr. Lacoste collect at (area code 202) 
?37-UOO, extension 707. 
If, on the basis of information received, your company's stock 
Swains on the List of OTC Margin Stocks, brokers and dealers, as well 
ns banks and others, will continue to be authorized to make margin loans 
''sing the stock as collateral. The maximum loan value of such stock is 
•0 per cent of the stock's current market: value, under the current Sup-
plements to Lhe regulations. It should be noted that margin requirements 
r,Pply only to loans for the purpose of purchasing or carrying equity secu-
rUies that are subject to the regulations. Loans for other purposes, 
c°Uateralized by your company's stock, are not affected. 
We greatly appreciate your assistance in this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
\/f 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
/ 
•foci o sure. ??. 

V 
1 8 ® 
I I I ® 
B O A R D L'F 
GOVERNORS 
n K THE 
F E D E R A L IRE5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
F>. C. 
2033! 
Item No. 3 
9/29/69 
ADnutim ornciAt coK»t«»'OMotNct 
T O 
T H I 
H O A K O 
' • >-U 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant 
to the Over-The-Counter Margin Act (P.L. 90-437), enacted by Congress ir: 
1963, has the responsibility to apply margin requirements to credit ex-
tended for the purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks not listed on 
National securities exchanges. In order to determine which securities 
should be made subject to margin requirements, the Board's staff assem-
ble*; data about firms whose issues have characteristics suggesting their 
Possible inclusion on a list of over-the-counter (OTC) margin stocks 
that are subject to the regulations. 
Requirements for inclusion on the list are set forth in sec-
tion 207.2(1:') of the Board's Regulation G, "Securities Credit by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers," section 220.2(e) of the Board's 
Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers and Dealers," and section 221.3(d) of 
the Board'8 Regulation U, "Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing 
Carrying Margin Stocka," and in the Supplements to those regulations. 
Copies of the liat ar»d the regulations are enclosed for your convenient 
reference. 
To supplement and verify information recently obtained from 
Published sources, which indicates that the stock of your corporation 
Possesses characteristics that may support inclusion on the Board's 
of OTC Margin Stocks, it would be appreciated if you would complete 
the enclosed Form F.R. 43, Survey of Selected Corporation, and return 
0r»e copy to the Board in the enclosed self-addressed envelope as soon . 
Q H Pot! nib La and within three woekn of the data oC this letter. It: nay 
that your corporation has already submitted data similar to that now 

A*. 
- 
2 
-
requested, in connection with a previous survey. If so, we would appre-
ciate your submitting updated information on the enclosed survey form, 
so that a determination can be made on the basis of current data. Should 
it prove impossible for you to send the requested information within this 
Period, or if you have any questions, please call Mr. Lacoste collect at 
(area code 202) 737-1100, extension 707. 
If, on the basis of information received, your company's stock 
is added to the. List of OTC Margin Stocks, brokers and dealers would be 
a'Jthouizcd--as banks and others are at present--to make margin loans using 
the stock as collateral. The maximum loan value of OTC margin stock is 
20 p C r C G n t 0f tjie sit0ck's current market value, under the current; Sup-
plements to the regulations. It should bo noted that margin requirements 
rlpply only to loans for the purpose of purchasing or carrying equity secu-
rities that are subject to the regulations. Loans for other purposes, 
collateralized by OTC margin stock, are not affected. 
We greatly appreciate your assistance in this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Daputy Secretary. 
^closures. 

52985 
Item No. 4 
9/29/69 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P Q N O E N 
- E 
T D 
T H E 
S O A R O 
: 1, 1969. 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Nr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the proposed 
Systemwide Guidelines and Objectives for Health Insurance for 
employees and retirees of the Federal Reserve Banks, as sub-
mitted by the Presidents' Conference except for the following, 
•for which revisions are recommended for your consideration: 
1. Surgical/Medical Benefits 
The Conference proposal provides full payment for 
physicians' services, including the charges for: (a) surgeon 
and assistant surgeon; (b) anesthesiologist; (c) radiologist; 
(d) in-hospita1 medical care; (e) obstetrical consultation and 
care; (f) physical therapy; and (g) diagnostic x-ray and labora-
tory services on an outpatient basis either in the hospital or 
doctor's office, on a "usual and customary" basis. 
In view of the minor proportion of group health insurance 
coverage sold in 1968 that was written on a reasonable and cus-
tomary basis rather than in a specific schedule (slightly less than 
10 per cent, as reported by the Health Insurance Association of 
America, which stated that this proportion was about the same as 
found in a study published by the Association in 1967), the Board 
considers that full payment on a usual and customary basis without 
a schedule control is not in conformance with either the current 
general practice or the reported trend. Therefore, it is recom-
mended that the reimbursement of such surgical/medical expenses 
be based either on a fee schedule or an administered schedule, 
under which the carrier would determine whether such charges were 
reasonable in comparison with the charges ordinarily made for 
similar services or supplies provided under similar circumstances. 
.vo'o? coV; •. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2C551 
A D D R E S S 
Octobe 

2986 
2. Major Medical Benefits 
The Presidents' Conference proposed a single deductible 
of $100 per family per year. 
The Board feels that such a narrow corridor between the 
basic and major medical coverage for family enrollment is not 
supportable by current practices (Arthur Stedry Hansen proposed a 
maximum of three individual deductions of $100 each per family), 
and recommends that it be revised to "a $100 deductible per person, 
with a maximum of two individual deductions of $100 per family." 
3. Premium Payments 
The guidelines proposed by the Conference provide that 
premiums be paid entirely by the Banks for health insurance covering 
certain retirees and their spouses, under 65 years of age, and 
dependent children. The Board believes that the Banks' contribution 
toward the cost of this health insurance should not exceed the two-
thirds paid for active employees under age 65 and their families and 
recommends accordingly. 
Similarly, under this concept, the two-thirds/one-third 
formula would apply to surviving spouses, under age 65, of deceased 
retirees. However, the full cost of the "wrap-around" insurance for 
surviving spouses, over age 65, of deceased retirees would be paid 
by the Banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2987 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
9/29/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 29, 1969 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York 10015. 
Gentlemen: 
As a result of recent discussions with representatives of 
your Corporation, it is understood that Standard Bank, in which your 
Corporation )wns about a 15 per cent stock interest, is planning to 
consolidate with Chartered Bank under an arrangement that will result 
in each bank becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of a new holding 
company. After an exchange of shares in accordance with British law, 
your Corporation would, without any further investment, own slightly 
less than 10 per cent of the holding company. It is understood, 
however, that your Corporation is seriously considering acquiring 
additional shares in the holding company so as to maintain about a 
15 per cent interest in the consolidated institution. 
One legal problem relating to the proposed consolidation 
involves Chartered Bank*s operation of two branches in New York, an 
agency in San Francisco, and a subsidiary bank in California. 
Section 25(a), of course, prohibits an Edge Corporation from investing 
in a corporation doing any business in the United States which is not, 
in the Board's judgment, incidental to such corporation's international 
and foreign business. 
The Board believes that generally foreign corporations in 
which Edge Corporations are permitted to invest, should not engage in 
any activities in the United States not permitted to a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) engaged in banking. While the provisions 
of Regulation K relating to activities permissible in the United States 
are partly regulatory, they are in large measure interpretive of the 
words "incidental to its international or foreign business" which 
Section 25(a) uses with respect to both Edge Corporations and corpora-
tions in which they may invest. From the summary information which 
you have provided, it appears that the California subsidiary of 
Chartered Bank is engaged in various activities of a purely domes tic 
character that would not be permissible to an Edge Corporation. 

- 2 -
29m 
Accordingly, the Board has concluded that it would not be permissible 
under the statute for your Corporation to hold stock in the proposed 
holding company so long as that company is engaged, directly or through 
a subsidiary, in essentially domestic business in the United States. 
In the event that Chartered Bank was willing to discontinue 
such domestic operations at its offices in the United States, the 
Board recognizes that this could not be done immediately. Therefore, 
the Board would be prepared to permit'the domestically oriented 
activities in the United States to be liquidated in an orderly manner 
by continuing to collect all payments on assets already held, and by 
liquidating ether nonconforming activities over a limited period of 
one to two years. Even during chis transition period, however, the 
Board would not consider it appropriate fcr a United States office to 
make any new extensions of credit which would not be permissible for 
an Edge Corporation or to solicit any deposits which would not be so 
permissible. 
If, on the other hand, it would be more satisfactory to 
the parties, to sell Chartered®s California subsidiary and its two 
branches, the Board would not object to continuance of the subsidiary 
and its branches as a going institution for one year during which 
a sale should be arranged. This, of course, is without reference to 
the two New York branches and the California agency which would remain 
subject to the views expressed in the preceding paragraph. 
The views of the Board expressed in this letter are confined 
to the issue just discussed and do not extend to other aspects of the 
proposal, which the Board would have to consider upon receipt of a 
formal application regarding the investment. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

2989 
UNITED STATES Of AMERICA 
Item No. 6 
9/29/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of The 
Citizens State Bank, St. Cloud, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Citizens 
State Bank, St. Cloud, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner of 
Banking and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 

2990 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 3, 1969 (34 Federal Register 11236) providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
be extended by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2331 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE CITIZENS STATE BANK, ST. CLOUD, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares of The Citizens State Bank, St. 
Cloud, Florida ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. « As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
to the Florida Commissioner of Banking, and his views and recommendation 
were requested. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United 
States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the effect 

-2-
of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
controls eight banks in the State of Florida, with aggregate deposits of 
$344 million.-?/ it controls 3 per cent of the deposits held by all banks 
in the State, and is the fifth largest banking organization and the fifth 
largest of 13 bank holding companies in Florida0 Acquisition of Bank, 
which has $7 million in deposits, would have only a negligible effect on 
State-wide concentration. Applicant would control just over 3 per cent 
of the deposits in the State, and would retain its relative position 
among the State's largest banking organizations and bank holding companies. 
Bank is the only bank located in St. Cloud, and is the second 
largest of three banks in Osceola County, Florida. The other banks in the 
y Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1968, refer 
to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

2 D '3 
-2-
county have deposits of $9 million and $4 million, respectively, and both 
are located in Kissimmee, the County seat, approximately 10 miles northwest 
of St. Cloud. Bank serves an area which encompasses most of Osceola 
County (population 21,500), although a large portion of its business is 
derived from the environs of the City of St. Cloud. Limited competition 
exists between Bank and the two banks in Kissimmee, but it does not 
appear that consummation of the present proposal would have any undue 
effect on either of such banks. 
The closest of Applicant's subsidiaries is located 24 miles 
north of Bank. A large portion of the intervening area is rural, and 
neither Bank nor any of the present subsidiaries derive significant 
business from the area served by the other; therefore, no existing 
competition would be eliminated by the proposal. Further, in view of 
the size of Bank, the distance between it and Applicant's subsidiary banks, 
and the fact that branch banking is not permitted by Florida law, it 
does not appear that significant potential competition would be foreclosed. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, 
and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 

2 q q 
W < J <VJF 
-4~ 
generally satisfactory and its management is considered competent. Future 
prospects of the group appear favorable. 
Bank's prospects are also considered favorable, and its 
management and financial condition are judged to be satisfactory. 
Its principal executive officer, however, has reached the usual 
retirement age, and Bank's affiliation with Applicant would provide it 
with an assured source of future management strength. 
The Board concludes that considerations under the banking 
factors lend some weight toward approval of the affiliation. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Consummation 
of the proposal would have no effect on customers served by Applicant's 
present subsidiaries. 
Population growth of the area served by Bank has been less 
rapid than that of the State as a whole, and the economy of the area 
has not been dynamic. However, substantial economic growth for the area 
is predicted beginning with the opening in 1971 of Walt Disney World, 
which is to be located about 20 miles northwest of St. Cloud. Applicant's 
ownership will enable Bank to offer financial counseling and other 
services to developing businesses, and to better meet the anticipated 
greater loan demand through participations with Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Applicant proposes immediately to make time deposit services, 
which Bank does not presently offer, available to its customers. Bank 
does not have a trust department, and will be able to offer its customers 
such services through referral to Applicant's lead bank in Orlando, which 

-2-
has the largest trust department in central Florida. In addition, 
Applicant proposes to improve Bank's internal procedures and to assist 
Bank in attaining a more efficient and economical operation. This local 
availability of improved and expanded services would be beneficial to 
residents of the area, as well as to Bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by Bank provide some weight in favor of approval of the 
application. 
I. 
* • • J 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 29, 1£69. 

z s m 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 7 
9/29/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
SECURITY FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC., 
1 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
1 
holding company through the acquisition of 
1 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
' 
of Security First National Bank of 
' 
Sheboygan and South-West State Bank, both 
' 
of Sheboygan, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security Financial 
Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval 
of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Security 
First National Bank of Sheboygan and South-West State Bank, both of 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the 

2937 
-2-
application and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
submitted views which are favorable to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application, under the name of First 
Security Corporation, which name was subsequently changed to Security 
Financial Services, Inc., was published in the Federal Register on 
January 14, 1969 (34 Federal Register 532), which provided an opportunity 
for interested persons to submit comments and views with respect to the 
proposed transaction. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. The time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
(SEAL) 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SECURITY FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC., SHEBOYGAN, WISCONSIN, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
of action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Security First National 
Bank of Sheboygan ("Security Bank") and South-West State Bank 
("South-West Bank"), both of Sheboygan, Wisconsin. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice to 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and re-
quested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller submitted views 
favorable to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
i 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction, - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in the State of Wisconsin,which include eight of 
the 11 Wisconsin-based bank holding companies,-^ control total deposits 
2/ 
of $3.3 billion,"- representing 39.5 per cent of the deposits held by all 
banks in the State. The consummation of Applicant's proposal to become 
a bank holding company through the acquisition of Security Bank ($63 mil-
lion deposits) and South-West Bank ($13 million deposits) would result 
in Applicant's becoming Wisconsin's thirteenth largest banking organi-
zation and eleventh largest bank holding company. Applicant would con-
trol less than 1 per cent of the State's total deposits. 
1/ In addition, three holding companies headquartered in Minnesota have 
subsidiary banks in Wisconsin, 
2/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1968. 

3 0 0 0 
-2-
Both of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in the 
City of Sheboygari, which has a population of 49,000. The Sheboygan 
River divides the northern three-fifths of Sheboygan from the southern 
section. Security Bank and South-West Bank are located one and one-
half miles apart, on opposite sides of the river, which is traversed 
by two bridges which connect the two sections of the city. However, 
the area served by South-West Bank, which includes that area lying 
south of the river and extending slightly beyond the city limits, lies 
almost wholly within the area served by Security Bank, which includes 
the entire city. Security Bank and South-West Bank are the second and 
third largest, respectively, of five banks in the city and of 14 banks 
in Sheboygan County. 
Each of the five banks in the city is a member of one of two 
banking groups, with the banks within each group so closely related as 
to constitute a single competitive force. The group composed of Appli-
cant's two proposed subsidiary banks holds 43 per cent of the total 
deposits of the banks located in the city and 36 per cent of deposits 
held by banks in Sheboygan County. The other group includes the city's 
largest bank, Citizens Bank of Sheboygan, and two smaller banks, and 
controls 57 per cent of deposits held by the five banks in the city and 
48 per cent of deposits in the county. 
The two subject banks have been closely affiliated for 46 years. 
South-West Bank was organized by the directors of Security Bank in 1923, 
and 65 per cent of its stock was owned by Security Bank until its sale in 

3001 
-2-
1954 to Security Bank stockholders. A majority of the stock of both 
banks continues to be owned by common shareholders, and the former 
president of Security Bank is the chairman of the boards of both banks. 
Further, there appears to be no indication that a change in this re-
lationship is likely to occur in the foreseeable future, regardless of 
the Board's action with respect to the present application. Common 
ownership of stock in the two banks has, in fact, increased slightly 
over the last 10 years. On December 31, 1958, stockholders holding 
51.45 per cent of Security Bank's stock owned 69.7 per cent of the 
shares of South-West Bank; on August 1, 1969, stockholders who own 
58.54 per cent of Security Bank's stock owned 70 per cent of the shares 
of South-West Bank. 
In view of the origin of this relationship between the subject 
banks, its closeness, the length of time for which it has endured, and 
the absence of any indication in the record of its likely dissipation in 
the future, it appears that the proposal would simply substitute common 
corporate ownership for the present common individual ownership. Present 
and potential competition would neither be foreclosed by approval of the 
application, nor encouraged by its denial. Neither does it appear that 
competition with and between other banks in the area would be affected 
in any significant way. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 

3002 
-2-
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities. Its financial condition is satisfactory, its management 
competent, and its prospects, which would be dependent upon those of 
its proposed subsidiaries, appear satisfactory. 
The financial condition and management of Security Bank are 
also satisfactory. The bank has an excellent location in the City of 
Sheboygan, its earnings have been satisfactory, and prospects of the 
bank appear favorable. 
South-West Bank is located in the rapidly growing southern 
section of Sheboygan. The bank is in generally sound financial condi-
tion, and Applicant has indicated its intention to strengthen the bank's 
capital position; that proposal would, to some extent, be facilitated 
by consummation of the present transaction. The bank's management is 
capable, and its prospects are considered favorable. 
Considerations regarding the banking factors lend slight weight 
toward approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The major 
banking needs of the area are being adequately served by present banking 
facilities, and would be little affected by consummation of the present 
proposal. However, the proposed action would serve the convenience of 

3003 
-6-
i . . , 
customers of Soiith-West Bank by facilitating the provision at that 
bank's location of services not presently offered, including limited 
fiduciary services, travel service, a check credit service, and in-
creased consumer loan service. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved lend some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 29, 1969. 

3004 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, 
MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
The record before the Board relating to First Security 
Corporations proposed acquisitions of the two banks in the City of 
Sheboygan, even when viewed most favorably to Applicant, does not, in 
our judgment, support approval of the proposal. The reasonably predict-
able consequences of consummation of the acquisitions are sufficiently 
anticompetitive as to outweigh substantially the benefits asserted by 
Applicant as likely or foreseeable. 
The City of Sheboygan and immediate environs are now served 
by the five banks located in Sheboygan. Two of the banks are the subject 
of Applicant's proposal; and, combined, they control 43 per cent of the 
total deposits of the five Sheboygan banks. The three remaining banks 
are in reality a single competitive force. One of them, the largest 
bank in Sheboygan (deposits of $89 million) is affiliated with the City's 
fourth largest bank (deposits of $10 million), and is closely related 
through stock ownership of its directors to the fifth bank in Sheboygan 
(deposits of $1.5 million). Together these banks hold 57 per cent of 
the deposits of all Sheboygan banks. Thus, in the relevant market - the 
City of Sheboygan - two banking "organizations" control 100 per cent of the 
banking offices and of all bank deposits. In the larger Sheboygan County 
area, the two organizations combined control nearly 85 per cent of total 
bank deposits. Clearly, Board approval of the subject proposal will 
contribute directly to perpetuation of an already highly oligopolistic 

3005 
-2-
market - a market which presently has the highest degree of concen-
ration of banking resources of any city in Wisconsin of similar popula-
tion density. 
The record discloses the geographical proximity of each of 
the proposed subsidiaries to the other, and the fact that their respective 
service areas overlap. Absent other considerations, it is reasonably 
concluded from the foregoing circumstances that present and potential 
competition exist between and among these banks. Applicant, however, 
minimizes the extent of existing competition, and argues against the 
probability of future competition, pointing, with respect to both con-
clusions, to the afore-described close relationship between and among 
the banks. Applicant argues, and the Board's majority statement adopts 
the position, that little likelihood exists that meaningful disaffili-
ation of Security Bank and South-West Bank will occur in the foreseeable 
future. From this it is concluded that no change in the bank's competitive 
situation would occur by changing a family-oriented affiliation to a 
corporate affiliation. 
We are unable to accept the premise upon which the majority 
position rests. While there can be no certainty that the identified 
common ownership will be dissolved in the future, it can be reasonably 
concluded that the likelihood of disaffiliation through stock sale is 
greater under the present form of ownership than would be the case were 
common ownership consolidated in the corporate form proposed. 

3906 
o _ 
Although the majority is correct in its recitation of the 
extent of common ownership of the two subject banks, it should also 
be pointed out that such common ownership involves over 100 share-
holders, with the largest of such shareholders owning less than 6 per 
cent of the shares of South-Uest Bank. Control, therefore, is not 
nearly 
as centralized as it would be under Applicant's proposal, and 
the absence of such centralized control is conducive to eventual dissi-
patio n of the existing relationship. 
There is presently before the Board an application pursuant 
to which the three banks in Sheboygan not involved in Applicant's pro-
posal would participate in the formation of a bank holding company. 
A discussion here of the merits of that proposal would be inappropriate. 
However, it is both appropriate and pertinent to observe that the mere 
prospect of a second holding company formation in the City of Sheboygan, 
considered in the light of the Boardfs approval of First Security's 
formation, constitutes a significant deterrent to deconcentration of 
the Sheboygan market. The possibility that the only method of entry 
into this market will be by de novo establishment poses a potential entry 
barrier of significant proportion even to the much larger Wisconsin bank-
ing organizations. 
Section 3(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act permits Board 
approval of a bank acquisition, the effect of which may be substantially 
to les sen competition only where such anticompetitive effects are found 

3007 
-2-
clear'Iy to T>c outweighed by the probable effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. No 
aspect of Applicant's proposal suggests that any existing need will be 
served by the Board's approval action. On the contrary, the only 
cognizable benefit will be a somewhat more convenient source of a lim-
ited number of services to the residents within the South-West Bank's 
service area. Such minimal contribution to the public interest fails 
to satisfy the statutory burden of outweighing the established anti-
competitive effects of the proposal. 
The application should be denied. 
September 29, 1969. 
