Minutes for 
July 6, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2714 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 6, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Status of American Swiss Credit Company (Item No. 1). The 
Board approved unanimously a letter to Franklin International Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, amending the consent recently granted by the 
Board to the purchase of shares of American Swiss Credit Company Limited 
(a Canadian corporation located in New York City) to provide that the 
company will continue to be regarded as a nonbank financial institution 
for purposes of the voluntary foreign credit restraint program. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Commingled investment account (Item No. 2). There had been 
distributed a draft of reply to an inquiry from Chairman Patman of the 

2 ' M 5 
7/6/67 
-2-
House Committee on Banking and Currency regarding the applicability of 
sections 20, 21, and 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 to the operation of 
a commingled investment account by First National City Bank, New York, 
New York. The draft would reaffirm the views the Board had previously 
expressed on that subject. 
After a discussion during which certain editorial changes were 
agreed upon, the letter was approved unanimously in the form attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, and Mr. Fauver, 
Assistant to the Board, then entered the room and Messrs. Holland, 
Hexter, Shay, and Sammons, and Miss Hart withdrew. 
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson had distributed to the members 
of the Board a memorandum dated July 6, 1967, recommending that the 
Board's architects for the proposed annex building, the firm of Harbeson 
Hough Livingston & Larson, be authorized to engage the services of a 
consultant specialist firm, Ballinger Meserole Company, of Philadelphia, 
to make a survey of the problem of mail and material handling in the 
present and proposed buildings. Of the several bids that had been 
obtained, that company had submitted the low bid of approximately 
$7,800. 
At today's meeting Mr. Shepardson described various aspects of 
the material handling problem and types of equipment that were used 
elsewhere to deal with somewhat similar problems. He brought out that 

271 
7/6/67 
-3-
authorizing the survey would not commit the Board to the purchase of 
any equipment; the consultants would study the Board's needs, make rec-
ommendations, and, if approved, prepare specifications for bids on the 
recommended equipment. 
After discussion, Mr. Shepardson's recommendation was approved 
unanimously. 
Mr. Shepardson had also furnished the members of the Board with 
a memorandum of today's date regarding the treatment of the triangle 
lying east of the Board's property between Virginia Avenue and C Street. 
The Board's agreement with the National Park Service provided that the 
Service would retain control of the surface of that area and develop it 
according to plans drawn by the Board's architects, subject to approval 
by the Service and subject also to the availability of funds. The 
Service had approved the preliminary design of a fountain in the tri-
angle as it had recently been revised by the architects, but had stated 
that "approval of this portion of the plan at this time shall not be 
construed as obligating the Service for the development of this area 
until such time as funds may be made available for this purpose." In 
a conversation with Mr. Shepardson, the Associate Regional Director of 
the National Park Service had indicated that the availability of appro-
priated funds for the proposed fountain was unlikely, but that the 
Service frequently received donations for such purposes, and if the 
Board cared to donate the fountain he saw no reason why it should not 
be included as a part of the Board's building project. 

7/6/67 
-4-
Accordingly, Mr. Shepardson recommended that the architects be 
authorized to include the fountain, pool, and connecting sidewalk as a 
part of the building project and to prepare detailed plans and speci-
fications for them. This would not include landscaping of the remaining 
surface of the triangle, which the National Park Service expected to 
take care of out of operating funds at the completion of the project. 
Mr. Shepardson's recommendation was approved unanimously, after 
a discussion that included an expression of view by Governor Brimmer 
that the fountain for the triangle should compare favorably in magnitude 
with those at the Constitution Avenue side of the present building, while 
Governor Robertson commented in favor of a less imposing type of fountain. 
Governor Robertson then inquired about developments arising from 
the recent decision of the Fine Arts Commission that it would not approve 
a design for the annex building that would include a penthouse floor to 
house mechanical equipment. 
Mr. Shepardson commented on problems being encountered by the 
architects in developing alternatives. The problems were extensive, 
and both technical, such as the height at which air conditioning machinery 
must be placed, and practical, such as the substantial added expense of 
constructing an additional parking level in the garage to recover park-
ing space that would be lost if mechanical equipment had to be placed 
below ground. 
Discussion developed a consensus that when the studies by the 
architects of possible alternatives were completed a further effort 

J 2 7 1 S 
7/6/67 
-5-
should be made to persuade the Fine Arts Commission to permit the use 
of the penthouse floor to house mechanical equipment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
Argentina, to be located in the Las Heras 
section of Buenos Aires; two additional 
branches in Colombia, to be located in the 
Chapinero and Puente Aranda sections of 
Bogota; an additional branch in Jamaica, 
to be located in the Newport West area of 
Kingston; an additional branch in Panama, 
to be located in the La Merced area of 
Panama City; and an additional branch in 
Trinidad and Tobago, to be located in the 
Piarco International Airport Terminal in 
Port-of-Spain, Trinidad. 
A letter was sent today to Virgin Islands 
National Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, 
Virgin Islands, acknowledging receipt of 
notice of its intent to establish an addi-
tional branch in St. Thomas, to be located 
at the Terminal Building of the Harry S. 
Truman Airport. 
In accordance with Executive Order No. 11213 
and the Treasury regulations issued under that 
order, a letter (copy attached as Item No. 3) 
was sent today over the signature of Chairman 
Martin to the Secretary of the Treasury request-
ing that information returns made by commercial 
banks under the Interest Equalization Tax Act be 
open to inspection by eight specified members of 
the Board's staff duly authorized by the Board. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 

2? 19 
7/6/67 
-6-
Appointments 
Eugene F. Frankenberger as Purchasing Assistant, Division of 
Administrative Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$6,461, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Leroy Jefferys as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Sonya L. Reeley, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business July 7, 1967. 
Governor Robertson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board a request from 
Reed J. Irvine, Adviser in the Division 
of International Finance, for permission 
to write occasional book reviews for The 
Washington Star. 

2V20 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
OF THE 
7/6/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
July 6, 1967. 
Franklin International Corporation, 
130 Pearl Street, 
New York, New York 10005. 
Gentlemen; 
Reference is made to a letter from the Board of Governors 
dated June 19, 1967, granting consent to your purchasing and holding 
all the shares of American Swiss Credit Company Limited ("Amerswiss"). 
The last paragraph of that letter is amended to read as 
follows: 
"The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that Amerswiss will continue to be guided in its foreign lending and 
investing activity by the guidelines for nonbank financial institutions 
issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in 
connection with the President1s balance of payments program, as long 
as such guidelines are in effect." 
In addition, your attention is directed to the 1967 guidelines 
for nonbank financial institutions issued by the Board of Governors on 
December 12, 1966, in which each such institution holding $500,000 or 
more in foreign financial assets was requested to file quarterly reports 
covering such assets with the Federal Reserve Bank of the Reserve District 
in which its principal office is located. It is expected that steps will 
be taken to file such reports by or on behalf of Amerswiss. 
Under the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint program, Edge 
Act companies (and their domestic subsidiaries, if any) have been asked 
to comply with the guidelines applicable to banks (Guideline 8). The 
treatment of Amerswiss as a nonbank financial institution subsequent 
to its becoming a subsidiary of a commercial bank does not constitute 
an exception to Guideline 8. Such treatment will apply in other cases 
only when the essential facts are similar, that is, only when a going 
concern is purchased by a commercial bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^of cow 

A. 
/ 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 2 
7/6/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Banking and Currency Committee, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
July 10, 1967 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your letter of May 27, 1967, in response to 
my letter of May 24, 1967, regarding sections 20, 21, and 32 of the 
Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 377, 378, and 78, the "Act") and the 
Board's interpretation in 1965 concerning the commingled investment 
account of First National City Bank of New York, as to which you urge 
reconsideration by the Board. 
The Board has again reconsidered its conclusion that the 
operation of the commingled investment account established by First 
National City Bank of New York does not involve a violation of those 
sections of the Banking Act of 1933 which the Board was directed by 
Congress to administer. For the reasons set out in previous corres-
pondence with you and discussed further below, the Board finds no 
sound basis for altering the views heretofore expressed. 
Your letter states that the Board's interpretation of the 
law "reaches the anomalous conclusion that Congress, in 1933, was con-
cerned about stopping banks from having an interlocking relationship 
with securities issuers and underwriters but was not concerned about 
banks engaging in these operations themselves in a direct manner." 
It is respectfully submitted that this is not an accurate summary of 
the Board's position. As the Board has repeatedly pointed out, section 
21 of the Act, a criminal statute whose interpretation is not within 
the Board's jurisdiction, forbids banks (with certain exceptions) to 
engage in issuing securities. 
The second question raised in your letter is whether an 
affiliation subject to the prohibitions of section 20 of the Act, 
should be held to exist where a bank performs activities described in 
that section in a division of its own trust department. 
The Board has consistently taken the view that sections 32, 
20, and 21 of the Act, while not identical in terminology, form parts 

Honorable Wright Patman 
- 
2 
-
2T/22 
of an interrelated statutory scheme, under which section 21 forbids 
banks to engage to any extent whatever in certain prohibited activities, 
while sections 20 and 32 are directed at means by which they might avoid 
this prohibition, either by affiliating themselves with organizations 
engaged "principally" in the activities, or informally, by having inter-
locking relationships with organizations engaged "primarily" in the 
activities. Before section 20 can apply, (1) there must be a "corporation, 
association, business trust, or other similar organization", (2) the 
organization must be "principally" engaged in the described activities, 
and (3) the bank must be affiliated with the organization in the manner 
described in section 2(b) of the Act. 
The Board has taken the view that the first factor is not 
present in the case of First National City Bank's commingled investment 
account. While the account might be an "association" for purposes of 
the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 80a), it is not such an 
organization for purposes of the Banking Act of 1933. As the Board has 
pointed out, the Investment Company Act of 1940 was drafted in con-
siderably broader terms than was section 20, and a mere informal group 
of persons can qualify as an "investment company" under the latter 
statute (cf. Prudential Insurance Company of America v. S.E.C., 326 F. 
2d. 383, 387, 3d. Cir. 1964). By contrast, the phrase "corporation, 
association, business trust, or other similar organization" in section 
20 of the 1933 Act has a fairly well-defined legal meaning. The Board, 
always subject of course to correction and guidance by the courts, does 
not consider the First National City Bank's commingled investment account 
to be such an organization for purposes of this section. 
The essential question involved in this matter, in the Board's 
view, is whether operation of such an account is a lawful activity for 
a national bank. This question is within the competence of the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and as you are aware, the Comptroller has answered in 
the affirmative. The Department of Justice has not, apparently, at this 
time taken the view that section 21 would forbid operation of the account. 
As has been stated, the Board does not believe it has jurisdiction to 
pass on this question. It may be remarked, however, that operation of 
a commingled account rather closely resembles operation of a common trust 
fund on the one hand, and operation of an agency management account on 
the other, both of which are lawful activities for member banks. 
The Board's interpretation published at 1965 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 1410 (12 CFR 218.11), concluding that section 32 does not forbid 
interlocking service between First National City Bank and its commingled 
account, is expressly conditioned on several factors designed to limit 
the extent and marketing of the account. No sales fee is charged, 
minimum participations are $10,000, and the bank agrees not to promote 

Honorable Wright Patman 
- 3 -
2723 
the account except as part of its ordinary trust services. The Board 
expressly cautioned that any departure from these conditions might tend 
to weaken the conclusion that the account was not a separate entity 
from the bank, and could lead to a different conclusion. 
Finally, the Board fails to see any connection between its 
holding on the question of the commingled account described in the 
interpretation mentioned above, and the question whether banks can or 
may deal in revenue bonds. Your letter states that under the Board's 
interpretation cited above, "member banks would be free to establish 
controlled affiliates to engage in most any securities or other enter-
prise they would deem profitable, including the underwriting of revenue 
bonds." As Chairman Martin pointed out in his letter to you of 
December 15, 1965, acquisition of stock in a controlled affiliate of 
the kind described in your letter would be forbidden by paragraph 
Seventh of 12 U.S.C. section 24 (section 5136 of the Revised Statutes). 
In addition, it seems highly probable that such a situation would come 
within the purview of section 20 of the Act. The Board can find no 
basis for your suggestion that its interpretation would facilitate such 
underwriting or issuing, either by a member bank itself, or through 
an affiliate controlled by such a bank. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

qfcov^ 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
O F T H E 
7/6/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 6, 1967. 
The Honorable Henry H. Fowler, 
Secretary of the Treasury, 
Washington, D. C. 20220. 
Dear Joe: 
In accordance with Executive Order No. 11213 and the 
Treasury regulations issued under that order, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby requests that 
information returns made by commercial banks under the Interest 
Equalization Tax Act be open to inspection by the following 
members of the Board's staff duly authorized by the Board: 
1. Robert Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International Finance; 
2. Robert L. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance; 
3. Gordon B. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of International Finance; 
4. Robert F. Gemmill, Chief, Special Studies and 
Operations Section, Division of International 
Finance; 
5. Samuel Pizer, Senior Economist, Division of 
International Finance; 
6. Frederic B. Ruckdeschel, Economist, Special Studies 
and Operations Section, Division of International 
Finance; 
7. Mrs. Peggy H. Reaves, Supervisor, Information 
Center, Division of International Finance; 
8. Mrs. Alton C. James, Clerk, Special Studies and 
Operations Section, Division of International 
Finance. 

P 
The Honorable Henry H. Fowler 
-2-
Procedures have been established within the Board of 
Governors to assure that inspection of these returns will be 
limited to the members of the Board's staff named above. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
1 
1 •;'• • .ib. . J • 
