FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
f 
Minutes for 
April 14, 1970 
c 
y4 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

i 
W
A 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 14, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
i 
k; 

4/14/70 
- 2 -
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
- Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mrs. Byrn and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Fry, and Schweitzer of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Althaus en of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Achor and Poundstone of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond on April 3, 1970, and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on April 9, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. A letter to Wachovia Bank and 
Trust Company, National Association, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
approving the establishment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Michigan National Bank. The Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion, in a memorandum dated April 3, 1970, recommended approval of the 

1.166 
4/14/70 
-3-
application of Michigan National Bank, Grand Rapids, Michigan, to estab-
lish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
Questions were raised regarding the application in light of the 
indicated capital position of Michigan National. A consensus developed 
in favor of withholding action pending further staff study, especially 
in view of pressure being exerted on certain other Michigan banks for 
capital improvement. Action on the application was therefore deferred. 
Republic National Bank. 
In a memorandum dated March 27, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Republic National Bank of New York, New York, New York, 
for permission to continue to hold the shares of Republic National Bank 
of New York (International) Limited, Nassau, Bahamas, a wholly-owned 
subsidiary, after the latter (1) engaged in the business of trading in 
spot and forward silver bullion contracts, and/or (2) purchased 35 
per cent of the shares of a corporation to be established in the Bahamas 
for the purpose of engaging in such transactions. The Legal Division, 
in a memorandum of April 6, discussed certain aspects of the case, includ-
ing imposition of the standard "control" conditions on the acquisition 
by the Nassau subsidiary of stock of the Bahamian company. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that 
Republ ic National's attention be directed to the understanding at the 
time the Nassau facility was approved that the bank would make it a 

1.166 
4/14/70 
-4-
first order of business to get back within its ceiling under the Volun-
tary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, since this had not yet been 
accomplished. 
A letter to Republic National Bank was then approved in the form 
attached as Item No. 2. Governor Robertson dissented, on the ground 
that he had originally objected to establishment of the Nassau subsidiary. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Mult-
nomah Bank, Portland, Oregon, into First State Bank of Oregon, Milwaukie, 
Oregon. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First State 
Bank of Oregon, Milwaukie, and The Multnomah Bank, Portland, 
would eliminate a small amount of competition now existing 
between them, as well as the potential for increased com-
petition by means of de_ novo branching. The resulting bank 
might be a somewhat stronger competitor, particularly in 
the area now served by The Multnomah Bank. Overall, the 
effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Applications under the Bank Merger Act. The following applica-
tions were approved unanimously after review of staff documentation, 
and with the understanding that an order and statement with respect to 
each decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration: 
Application of Peoples Trust of New Jersey, 
Hackensack, New Jersey, to merge The Peoples 
National Bank of Hackettstown, Hackettstown, 
New Jersey; 

itm 
4/14/70 
-5-
Application of Union Bank and Trust Company, 
Ottumwa, Iowa, to acquire assets and assume 
deposits.of Union State Bank, Richland, Iowa. 
Mr. Leavitt noted that on one of the applications the Comptroller 
of the Currency's competitive factor report had not been received and on 
the other the report by the Department of Justice had not been received. 
It was observed that the reports might be received during the time neces-
sary for preparation of the orders and statements. However, there was 
agreement with a suggestion that the reporting agencies be reminded of 
the program the Board was now following to expedite processing of merger 
and bank holding company applications. 
Proposed amendment to Truth in Lending Act. Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Bank-
ing and Currency responding to his request for views on H. R. 16197, a 
bill to exempt agricultural credit from the Truth in Lending Act. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Currency and coin service to Hawaii. 
The Treasury Department 
having closed the currency custody account it formerly maintained in 
Hawaii, First Hawaiian Bank proposed that the Federal Reserve maintain 
such an account, and Senator Fong of Hawaii asked that the Board con-
sider the request. In a memorandum dated April 9, 1970, the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that replies be made in 
the same terms as when Senator Fong originally raised the question, at 
the time the Treasury scheduled the closing of its custody account. 

1.166 
4/14/70 
-6-
The San Francisco Reserve Bank stood ready to provide currency and coin 
service to any bank in the State, with shipments at the Reserve Bank's 
risk and expense in the case of a member bank and at the commercial 
bank's risk and expense in the case of a nonmember bank. 
The Division also set forth arguments for and against a favor-
able position on a related question, presented by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco on behalf of Crocker-Citizens National Bank. 
Crocker-Citizens inquired whether it could count as reserves cash held 
in custody for it by First Hawaiian Bank. The Legal Division had pre-
pared an affirmative draft response, principally because the present 
terms of Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, did not explicitly 
preclude such an arrangement. The Legal Division was of the opinion 
that if the Board did not wish to give such a response, it would be 
desirable to amend Regulation D. 
Governor Brimmer recommended, with respect to the inquiry by 
Crocker-Citizens, that the Board take a negative position. In his view, 
the proposed arrangement reflected only another effort by First Hawaiian 
Bank to obtain currency services without paying the cost of transporta-
tion and insurance. When the bank withdrew from System membership, it 
had been made aware that the Reserve Bank would no longer pay the cost 
of currency shipments. The 1959 amendment to the Federal Reserve Act 
under which cash might be counted as reserves did not seem to have been 
intended to enable banks to spread cash among their correspondents and 
count it as reserves. 

1173 
4/14/70 
-7-
There was general agreement upon a negative interpretation, 
and a preference was expressed for stating it only in a letter to the 
San Francisco Reserve Bank at the present time. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the letters to Senator Fong 
and First Hawaiian Bank, copies of which are attached as Items 4 and 5, 
and to a letter to the Reserve Bank in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Pittsburgh Branch alteration. In January 1967 the Board autho-
rized the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland to proceed with plans and 
specifications for construction at the Pittsburgh Branch of an additional 
vault and covered loading dock, with roof parking, at an estimated cost 
of $500,000. The Cleveland Bank now proposed an alternative program at 
a cost not to exceed $100,000. The Bank's current proposal apparently 
was influenced by an analysis made by a consultant firm. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, in a memorandum 
dated April 2, 1970, recommended that the limited program not be autho-
rized and that the Branch be encouraged to seek a more permanent solution 
to its handling and storage problems. 
The Division believed that the 
program now proposed would at best afford only temporary relief and that 
substantial long-run outlays would be required. 
Views were expressed in favor of the Division's position. How-
ever, there was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that the 
matter be explored further with the Bank through the Board's Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. 

j 171 
4/14/70 
-8-
Time and savings deposit rate survey. A memorandum dated 
April 10, 1970, from the Division of Research and Statistics advised 
that the quarterly survey of time and savings deposit rates had been 
reappraised to determine what changes should be made in the light of 
the revised ceiling rates and of operating experience. 
Several revi-
sions were recommended, mainly (1) substitution of a maturity breakdown 
for the previous ownership breakdown for deposits in denominations 
under $100,000; (2) consolidation of the reporting of denominations of 
$100,000 and over from a 3-way to a 2-way breakdown; (3) provision for 
collection of new data covering interest paid on Christmas Club accounts; 
and (4) simplification of reporting of information on nonrate terms in 
the annual survey. Revised reporting forms were attached, as well as a 
draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Chairman Burns suggested that it might be desirable to assign 
questions of statistical procedures to a member or a committee of the 
Board rather than to have the full Board deal with the technicalities 
involved in such matters. 
Reference was made, however, to bank relations problems frequently 
involved and to similar factors that might merit the Board's consideration. 
It was also suggested that the possibility of delegation be considered in 
connection with the over-all review of bank reporting programs that the 
Board was expected to discuss in the near future. A proposed alternative 

IJ 712 
4/14/70 
-9-
was that a committee of members might filter out less critical issues 
and bring to the Board only those questions that had policy implications. 
Chairman Burns then requested Governor Sherrill to study the 
matter further. 
Governor Brimmer observed, with respect to the specific proposals 
for revision of the survey, that about a year ago he had suggested obtain-
ing a size breakdown of certificates of deposit in denominations of 
$100,000 and over. Staff explained why the survey now under consideration 
had not seemed to be an appropriate vehicle for obtaining such information, 
and Governor Brimmer, while accepting this response, asked that attention 
be given to the matter in the near future to secure the information in 
some way. 
The remainder of the discussion centered around the request on 
the survey form for data regarding interest paid on Christmas Club 
accounts. Congressman Benjamin S. Rosenthal, Chairman of a special 
inquiry by a Subcommittee of the House Committee on Government Opera-
tions, had suggested that a disclosure requirement would be desirable 
to avoid misleading depositors who might not be aware that their Christ-
mas Club accounts did not bear interest. The Board had replied that in 
its opinion such legislation would not be warranted and had pointed out 
that the high rate of repeaters suggested that most account holders were 
not motivated by interest rate considerations. 
The Congressman then 
had requested citations or copies of empirical studies in support of 
that position. 

1173 
4/14/70 
-10-
The discussion included expression of the view that the nature 
of the pertinent questions on the proposed reporting form would not 
elicit the information necessary to document the position that had 
been taken. Reservations also were expressed regarding the use of the 
survey as a vehicle to gather such information. Use of the summer call 
report was suggested, along with various other ways of obtaining the 
information necessary to make a substantive response to Congressman 
Ros enthal. The staff was requested to explore the alternatives and 
make recommendations to the Board. 
The revised survey forms, with the questions regarding Christ-
mas Club accounts deleted, were then approved unanimously. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 7. 
Report regarding real property. 
In a memorandum dated April 9, 
1970, Mr. O'Connell discussed the question of what response, if any, 
should be made by the Board to a request from General Services Adminis-
tration in connection with a survey of real property owned by the United 
States under agency control at February 10, 1970. He recommended that 
the Board transmit a report to GSA by letter, in form attached. 
The letter was approved unanimously, subject to certain edito-
rial changes. A copy, as sent, is attached as Item No. 8. 
Commission on Financial Institutions. The Office of the Secretary 
had submitted, in a memorandum dated April 13, 1970, preliminary staff 
suggestions regarding key issues that might be considered by the 

J . 1 7 4 
4/14/70 
-11-
Commission on Financial Institutions, to be appointed shortly by the 
President. 
* 
Chairman Burns suggested that discussion be deferred until 
tomorrow and that in the meantime the members of the Board transmit 
their views to him. These would be useful in preparation for a meet-
ing with Mr. Reed Hunt, who was expected to be named Chairman of the 
Commission. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and R. Solomon. 
Governor Sherrill advised that he was approving travel on an 
actual expense basis by Mr. Solomon to Chile to attend the meeting of 
Governors of Central Banks of the American Continent to be held in 
late April, with a stopover in Buenos Aires, following his attendance 
at Paris meetings of Working Party 3 and the Group of Ten Deputies. 
Chairman Burns then reported on his attendance at the Basle 
meeting this past week end. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

lit 
r, « 
(f tJ 
B O A R D DF" G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. l 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
4/14/70 
A D D I 5 E 5 3 
O F F I C I A L 
y D H S t i l P D N O E N C C 
I D 
T H E 
F I O A H O 
/ ' 
/ 
April 14, 1970 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
N a tic na 1 As s o c i a t: i o n, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 2.7102 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, National Associa-
tion, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau. 
Bahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
Will be used for developing new international business and not as a 
means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the foregoing 
permission is granted subject to continuing observation and review 
by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The 
foregoing permission is also granted on the condition that adequate 
information covering the branch's operations will be maintained at 
your head office and will be available to the Board and its accredited 
representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modifi-
cation in the branch's methods of operation, including changes in any 
contract under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

Wacliovia Bank and Trust Company, 
National Association 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
tsf • RiegCilation..H); Th§ general purpose of these exemptions is to al-
low foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions out-
aide the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum re-
liance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of your bank and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenrteth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1177 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
I t e m No. 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
4 / 1 4 / 7 0 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C D R I J E B P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1970 
Republic National Bank of New York, 
Fifth Avenue at 40th Street, 
New York, New York. 
10018 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letter of January 6, 1970, requesting 
the advice of the Board as to whether the trading in spot and future 
silver bullion contracts by your wholly-owned subsidiary, Republic 
National Bank of New York (International) Limited ("RNBI"), Nassau, 
Bahamas, and/or by another corporation in which RNBI intends to ac-
quire a stock interest is considered as doing business within the 
United States. It is the judgment of the Board that the proposed 
trading would be incidental to the international or foreign business 
°f RNBI and/or the corporation whose stock RNBI intends to acquire, 
and as such would represent an activity permissible under Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
In view of the foregoing, and in accordance with the fur-
ther request contained in your letter of January 6, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your bank ("RNB") to continue to 
hold shares of RNBI after (a) RNBI engages in the business of trading 
l n sport and forward silver bullion contracts, and/or (b) RNBI in-
vests up to $350,000 in the purchase of 35 per cent of the capital 
stock of a corporation ("BC") to be established in the Bahamas for 
the purpose of engaging in such silver bullion transactions, pro-
vided that at least $100,000 is invested in BC within one year from 
the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is also 
granted for the purchase and holding of shares of BC by RNBI in ex-
cess of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisicns of 
Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Sec-
tion 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of BC by RNBI is granted subject to the following condi-
tions: 

1178 
Republic National Bank of New York -2-
(1) That RNBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BC if EC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
the Bahamas or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not ue permissible to RNBI; 
; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, RNBI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by BC in the Bahamas in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board 
of Governors be f u r n i s h e d , through the Federal Re-
serve Bank of New York, w i t h copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of BC. 
The Board is deeply concerned that as of February 28, 1970, 
the foreign loans and investments of your bank again exceeded the 
guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint ef-
fort now in effect. 
Your attention is directed to the Board's letter 
December 1, 1969, granting consent to the establishment of a 
London branch which stated, in part: ", . . the Board also notes 
that Republic National Bank of New York will open its subsidiary in 
Nassau i n the immediate future, and that it i s expected that opera-
tions of the subsidiary will enable your bank to reduce its foreign 
assets to an amount within its ceiling." 

1179 
Republic National Bank of New York -3-
The foregoing consent is given with the clear understanding 
that your foreign loans and investments will be rcduced to a level 
consistent with the guidelines; that the investment now being ap- • 
proved will be made within those guidelines; and that due consider-
ation is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

J 1 NO 
• 'oofco^ •. 
W
m
m
-
C H A I R M A N O F T H E D O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
4/14/70 
ML Ht -
x > 
April 16, 1970. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Cha irvnan, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the Board's 
views on H. R. 16197, a bill to exempt agricultural credit from the 
Truth in Lending Act. Under the present Act, as you know, credit 
extended to individuals for agricultural purposes is covered if 
the amount is $25,000 or less or (regardless of the amount) if a 
security interest in real property is involved. This treatment 
contrasts with the exemption in the statute for credit extended 
for "business or commercial purposes" and questions have been 
raised as to whether the activities of farmers, especially those 
with large operations, are more like those of businessmen than 
those of consumers, whom the Act is primarily designed to protect. 
In its 1969 report on Truth in Lending the Board 
recommended that credit primarily for agricultural purposes in 
excess of an appropriate amount (perhaps $25,000, the limit 
applicable to most consumer credit transactions under the Act) 
should be exempt even though a security interest in real property 
is involved. This would continue coverage of smaller transactions, 
in keeping with our understanding of the intent of Congress to 
provide protection in the area where it is most needed, but to 
exempt: larger credit transactions where borrowers are in a good 
position to judge the relative worth of alternative credit plans 
and do not require special protection. 
This approach seems preferable to a blanket exemption 
of all agricultural credit, as provided in II. R. 16197. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
u 

1 1 S 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4 / 1 4 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20551 
April 17, 1970 
The Honorable Hiram L. Fong, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D.C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Fong: 
--'^PML' 
After considering the points made in Mr. Bellinger's 
letter of March 16 and after reviewing our previous correspondence 
with you in connection with this matter, it seems to us that the 
main point at issue so far as the Federal Reserve System is 
concerned is the question of the expense of moving currency and 
coin back and forth between Hawaii and the San Francisco Reserve 
Bank. 
It would not appear that there is any question about 
the availability of an appropriate supply of currency and coin in 
Hawaii. 
The San Francisco Reserve Bank stands ready to furnish 
any amount of currency and coin that may be needed by any Hawaiian 
banks, and also stands ready to accept deposits of any currency and 
coin that may be in excess of the needs of Hawaiian banks. Under 
an outstanding authorization applying to all Federal Reserve Banks, 
such shipments in the case of member banks will be made at 
expense and risk of the Federal Reserve Bank, and in the case of 
nonmember banks such shipments will be at the expense and risk of 
the latter. 
As you probably know, Mr. Bellinger's bank (First Hawaiian 
Bank) withdrew from membership in the Federal Reserve System and 
announced at the time that it was taking this step in order to "make 
available substantial amounts that must now be kept on deposit with 
the Federal Reserve Bank." Under the circumstances it does not 
seem to us appropriate to make available the free services of the 
Federal Reserve System to the First Hawaiian Bank without at the 
same time requiring it to assume the burdens of membership. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

f 
/ f ^ f f i ! ^ . 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E : 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055! 
Item No. 5 
4/14/70 
A D O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
.r'.'A-
April 17, 1970 
Mr. John D. Bellinger, 
President, 
First Hawaiian Bank, 
Honolulu, Hawaii. 
96801 
Dear Mr. Bellinger: 
This refers to your letter of March 16, 1970, with 
respect to a proposal for the Federal Reserve System to maintain 
a cash custody account in Hawaii for use by the noranember banks 
in the State. 
After consideration of all the circumstances, the Board 
is of the opinion that it would not be appropriate to make 
available to nonmember banks in Hawaii the free services of the 
Federal Reserve System without at the same time requiring the 
banks to assume the burdens of membership. 
It does not appear 
that there would be any need for a custody account in the case 
of any bank that is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board understands that you have been advised of 
the System's policy with respect to currency and coin services, 
and the willingness of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
to receive shipments of currency and coin from any bank in Hawaii 
and to make shipments of currency and coin to any bank in the 
State regardless of whether or not it is a member bank. 
Such 
shipments will be made at the Reserve Bank's expense and risk for 
member banks and at the commercial bank's expense and risk for 
nonmember banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
* ; 
^ 
..V/oVVoiVv. • 
nr-THE 
F E D E R A L . R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
V - F I F E ^ ^ * " 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
4 / 1 4 / 7 0 
A D D H C t l S 
D f r i C I A l . CDHatliPONDCHCC 
T O 
7 H L 
C O A I f D 
April 17, 1970, 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Kr« Swan: 
I 
This refers to your letter of January 8, 1970 enclosing 
copies of: two letters from Crocker-Citizens National Bank, 
San Francisco, California, requesting advice whether currency avid 
coin ovr.fjed by that bank and held by the First Hawaiian Bank, 
Honolulu, Hawaii, may be counted as reserves of the former bank 
under Regulation D. The arrangement is contemplated as a result: 
of the Treasury Department's decision to cease the maintenance of 
a cash -depot at the First Hawaiian Bank as of February 28, 1970. 
i 
As you know, section 19(c) of the Federal Reserve Act 
provides that a member bank's reserves may be in the form of 
'currency and coin he3d by such bank, or such part thereof as 
the Board may by regulation prescribe." Section 204.5(b) of the 
Supplement to Regulation D provides that "the amount of a member 
bank's currency and coin sha.il be counted as reserves in deter-
mining compliance with the reserve requirements of: paragraph (a) 
of tliis section." Section 204.l(j) of the Regulation defines 
"currevrcy and coin" to mean "United States currency and coin 
owned and held by a member bank, including currency and coin in 
transit to or from a Federal Reserve Bank." 
The Board has concluded that currency and coin held 
by a nonmember bank in the circumstances of this case would not 
be "heltd by a member bank" under § 204. l(j) of Regulation D and 
could not therefore be counted as reserves of the member bank 
on whose behalf they would be held. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

liR4 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 7 
4/14/70 
A D D R E S S 
Q r r i C t A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T U 
T H E 
B O A R D 
. M L res . . ' 
April 15, 1S70 
Dear Sir: 
The survey of time and savings deposit rates at member 
banks has been revised beginning with the April survey. In view 
of the rccent revisions in Regulation Q ceilings and in light of 
operating experience with the survey to date, the method for classi-
fying deposits has been changed. Two copies of the new quarterly 
and annual forms and instructions are enclosed. 
A major change in the new forms is in the classification 
of time deposits, other than savings, in denominations of less than 
$100,000. 
In lieu of separate reporting of deposits by type of 
ownership--"issued mainly to businesses" and "all other"-~and by 
type of instrument--"certificates of deposit" and "open account"--
a maturity breakdown of deposits has been substituted, in line with 
the new rate structure in Regulation Q. It is recognized that some 
respondents may have difficulty in making the transition to the 
new maturity classification in the April 30 survey. For any banks 
that would have undue difficulty in reporting this information, the 
Reserve Banks may indicate that a reasonable estimate of the maturity 
classification will be acceptable for the April 30 survey. 
For the April and July surveys the same sample of respon-
dents as for the January 31 survey will be used, except for structure 
changes. The annual survey, conducted at the end of October of each 
year, will be, as usual, on a universe basis for member banks. The 
classification of deposits will be identical on both the annual and 
Quarterly forms. The information on non-rate terms, provided only 
on the October survey, has been abbreviated and simplified. 
The Budget Bureau approval number and expiration date--
to be filled in in the space provided on the form--will be wired as 
soon as approval is secured, which is expected early next week. 

A technical memorandum outlining procedures for the processing of 
the reports at the Reserve Banks will be forwarded shortly. 
The FDIC plans" to conduct identical surveys in April 
and July, and the results of the surveys will be combined for 
purposes of publication. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
/ 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enc1osures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

j j m ; 
B O A R D • F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 8 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
4/14/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
1 3 
T H E 
Q O A R D 
April 14, 1970. 
Mr. John W. Chapman, Jr., 
Acting Administrator, 
General Services Administration, 
Washington, D. G. 
20405 
Dear Mr. Chapman: 
This acknowledges your memorandum request of February 20, 1970 
for a report by the Board, pursuant to Executive Order No. 11508, of all 
property (as defined in the Executive Order) owned by the United States 
under the Board's control as of February 10, 1970. 
At the latter date the Board had under its control two parcels 
of real property. They arc Lots 812 and 813 ir Square F.S3 and Let 805 
in Square E.87. Lots 812 and 813 are located on the south side of 
C Street between 20th and 21st Streets, N.W. and serve as the site of 
the Federal Reserve Building. Lot 805 is situated north of C Street 
between 20th and 21st: Streets, N.U. directly across from the Board's 
building and is presently used as a parking lot for Board employee auto-
mobiles. Lots 805, 812, and 813, combined, total 4.97 acres. The Board 
has completed and has had approved by the Fine Arts Commission and the 
National Capital Planning Commission plans for the construction of an 
annex on Lot 805. The construction had been scheduled to commence 
earlier this year with estimated completion in 1971. However, in 
Apr il 1969, the Board postponed indefinitely the annex construction in 
order to minimize competition for scarce goods and services during the 
tb en existing inflationary period. The proposed construction will be 
commenced as promptly as, in the Board's judgment, favorable economic 
circumstances permit.. 
Regarding the Board's response to your request for this 
report, it should be noted that the funds utilized for the purchase of 
Lots 805, 812, and 813 were derived, not from Congressional appropria-
tions, but from assessments levied on the Federal Reserve Banks in 
accordance with section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act which also 
nw 
^MiimjZ: 

Mr. John W. Chapman, Jr. 
_ 9 _ 
J j _ S 7 
provides that the Board shall have sole control of the property. It 
is to be further noted that while no question exists as to the Board's 
status as an independent establishment of the Federal Government, its 
position in relation, to the executive branch is a matter that has not 
been authoritatively determined by the courts. 
The Board is pleased to cooperate with you in your endeavor 
to establish a current: inventory of real property use by the Federal 
Government. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
Kenneth A. Kenyori, 
Deputy Secretary,, 
