MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 20, 1971 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the itme in this set of 
®inutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
deferred to below: 
Page 3 Amendments to Regulation Y, Bank 
Holding Companies 

1232 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, May 20, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Ci,., 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr, Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
iJlifc 

3 
5/20/71 
-10-
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
approving its application for permission to purchase stock of Morgan 
Guaranty Investment Services S.A., Geneva, Switzerland. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board noted without objection a notice of intent filed by 
v''' 3 v J. 
, 
fhe Midwestern Financial Corporation of Ohio, Cincinnati, Ohio, pursuant 
v J 1 j • J: , 
t o section 4(c) (12) of the Bank Holding Company Act as amended, to 
cquire The Keystone Savings Association, Cincinnati, Ohio. This meant 
that applicant could make the acquisition on or after May 22, 1971. 
• *> ' 
• v»! 
' 
11 
• \t 
a 
>r it*. 
•• ••• 
i 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
yeflecting its action on May 6, 1971, approving the application of First 
* i' 1 
.» 
t 
,
.
, 
i 
i 
/ 
Ur»i0n, Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank of West Plains, West Plains, Missouri. Copies of the 
order i i 
a n a statement are attached under Item No. 2. 
" " 
' .-'•V;*'.' 
- 
• 
' l 
J . . 
i •. J 
t 
::. 
, 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Valley 
^.corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Badger State 
Denmark, Wisconsin, and authorized the issuance of an order reflect 
ing j-u . 
3 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by NJN Bancorpora-
l! ' ^reriton, New Jersey, to become a bank holding company by acquiring 
v°ting shares, except directors' qualifying shares, of New Jersey 

1231 
5/20/71 
-3-
National Bank, Trenton, New Jersey, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by The Toronto-
Dominion Bank, Toronto, Canada, to become a bank holding company by 
acquiring the voting shares, except directors' qualifying shares, of 
Toronto-Dominion Bank of California, San Francisco, California, a pro-
Posed new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
Nonbanking activities of bank holding companies. After analysis 
Stjthe comments received and the record of the hearing held on April 14, 
• ^9.711 the Legal Division recommended in a memorandum of May 10, 1971, 
adoPtion by the Board of its pending proposal to implement section 4(c)(8) 
Bank Holding Company Act as amended (except with respect to data 
pr°cessing and insurance) substantially as proposed in January 1971. 
To implement its recommendation, the Legal Division submitted 
wi-th its memorandum a proposed initial list of nonbanking activities 
which it would be permissible for bank holding companies to engage, 
e*Udirectly or through a subsidiary. The Division also submitted a 
raft of interpretation dealing with several questions that had arisen 
during consideration of the matter. 
The Board's discussion reflected general agreement with the 
iiirV of permissible activities proposed by the Legal Division. It 

5 
5/20/71 
-10-
was agreed, however, that footnotes should be added at the appropriate 
places to make clear that the Board had not yet decided whether the 
following activities should be regarded as permissible: (1) operating 
a savings and loan association; (2) acting as investment adviser to 
an open-end investment company or as a management consultant; and 
(3) investing in an industrial development corporation. With regard 
to the statement in the paragraph prefacing the list of permissible 
activit ies that "...any bank holding company may engage, or retain or 
acquire an interest in a company that engages, solely in one or more 
°f-jthe activities specified below...", it was decided that language 
should be added to make clear that the use of the word "solely" would 
^ t ^prohibit the company from engaging in such incidental activities 
a s might be necessary to carry on the activities specified. Several 
Su8gestions for changes in language for purpose of clarification were 
i S o agreed upon, both in the list of permissible activities and in 
t h e interpretation. 
Consideration then was given to a related proposal, also 
c°ntained in the Legal Division's memorandum of May 10, that the 
^•fedments to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, include provisions, 
With 
-•» respect to de novo entry, that would permit a bank holding company 
engage, or acquire or retain shares in a company established to 
„solely in activities set forth in the list of permissible 
a&fcrf * 4 
ities 45 days after the company had furnished its Reserve Bank 

1236 
5/20/71 
-10-
with a copy of a notice of the proposal published within the preceding 
p0 days in a newspaper of general circulation in the communities to be 
served, unless the company should be notified to the contrary within 
'that time or unless it was permitted to make the acquisition at an 
earlier date on the basis of exigent circumstances of a particular case. 
A form for publication of such notice was submitted with the memorandum. 
It was suggested that the language of Regulation Y should make 
clear that if a Reserve Bank should decide that adverse comments received 
following publication of notice of such a proposal were not of a sub-
stantive nature, the person submitting the comments would have the 
right to request review by the Board. There was agreement with that 
Su8gestion. Question also was; raised whether it was clear which Reserve 
Bank or Banks notice would have to be filed with in cases of proposed 
interdistrict activities, and a procedure was described that was consid-
ered^acceptable by the Board members. Further suggestions related to 
clarification of language. 
Consideration next was given to a memorandum of May 17, 1971, 
n which the Legal Division proposed amendments to the Board's Rules 
^egarding Delegation of Authority to authorize the Reserve Banks to 
a c t favorably on proposals by bank holding companies to engage de novo 
activities determined by the Board to be closely related to banking. 
q i 
fitted with 
the memorandum was a letter of instruction to the Reserve 
a n k s that would establish guidelines for the exercise of their authority. 

1237 
5/20/71 
-10-
It was noted that some of the questions involved in this 
proposal had been anticipated in the foregoing discussion. However, 
several suggestions were made for modifications in the letter of instruc-
tion to the Reserve Banks, following which agreement was reached on a 
form of letter deemed acceptable to the members of the Board. Staff 
was requested to consider further certain questions of procedure involved 
in operating under a 45-day time limit, particularly where interdistrict 
Proposals were involved and adverse comments were received. 
The Board then turned its attention to a draft of Form F.R. Y-4 
the application for prior approval of an acquisition pursuant to sec-
tion 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act as amended. This form, 
submitted with a memorandum from Mr. Leavitt dated May 13, 1971, would 
used by a registered bank holding company when (1) the proposal 
lnv°lved an activity that had been or would be commenced, or had been 
exPanded, through the acquisition of a going concern, and/or (2) the 
activity involved had not been determined by the Board by regulation 
to be so closely related to banking or to the business of managing or 
c°ntrolling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. Drafts of the 
had been exposed to industry representatives, the Reserve Banks, 
n d members' of the Federal Advisory Council. 
In response to questions, members of the staff explained why 
tH 
ey did not feel that it would be advisable to shorten the form at 
th -J 
l s time. However, it was understood that the form would be reviewed 
i n six months with that objective in mind. 

8 
5/20/71 
-10-
Finally, the Board considered a draft of press release that had 
been prepared for issuance if the Board approved all of the proposals 
placed before it today by the staff. The proposed release was regarded 
as appropriate in tone, but it was understood that modifications would 
5nave to be made as a result of the changes that had been agreed upon at 
thi s meeting in the staff proposals. 
The Board then took the following actions, in each case by 
unanimous vote, subject to the understanding that the relevant document 
would be modified to the extent agreed upon during today s discussion 
and subject to the understanding that the documents would be made avail 
able to the Board members for final review prior to issuance: 
(1) approved the issuance of a press release in the form 
attached as Item No. 6; 
(2) approved, effective June 15, 1971, amendments to 
Actions 222.4(a), 4(b), and 4(c) of Regulation Y in the form 
at*ached as Item No. 7; 
:(3) approved the issuance of an interpretation, in the 
attached as Item No. 8, relating to the amendments to 
Re8ulation Y; 
* ... 
(4) approved amendments to its Rules Regarding Delegation 
o f Authority, effective June 15, 1971, in the form attached as 

1239 
5/20/71 
-10-
(5) approved the sending to the Federal Reserve Banks of 
a letter of instruction in the form attached as I tern No. 10; 
(6) approved the use of Form F.R. Y-4. 
Foreign bank holding companies and foreign activities of domestic 
bank holding companies. Consideration was given to a memorandum from 
the Legal Division dated May 14, 1971, proposing that there be published 
for comment amendments to Regulation Y to implement the provisions of 
Bank Holding Company Act, as amended in 1970, relating to operations 
in the U.S. by foreign-based bank holding companies and activities out-
side the U.S. by domestic bank holding companies. 
The reaction of Board members to the proposed amendments relating 
to activities in the U.S. of foreign bank holding companies was generally 
favorable. Board members commented to the effect that in general foreign-
ftased bank holding companies that desired to operate in this country 
should be allowed to do the things allowed to be done by domestic bank 
holding companies, although there might be no objection to de minimis 
eXceptions. They also commented that the results of adoption of regu-
lations along the lines recommended by the staff could be watched 
Carefuliy over a period of time and adjustments could be made in the 
%ht of^experience if it developed that abuses were occurring. 
As (to the proposed amendments relating to foreign activities of 
((Jon, 
68tic bank holding companies, some Board members felt that the matter 
not been studied sufficiently, and several questions were raised 
°ncerning which the staff was requested to undertake further analysis. 

1240 
5/20/71 
-10-
Accordingly, action on the publication of the proposed amend-
ments for comment was deferred. 
Simplification of procedures. Governor Mitchell presented to 
the Board for consideration a proposal that in essence contemplated 
simplification of procedural requirements in those cases where a bank 
desired to make use of the holding company device to establish in 
separate corporations various functions permitted to be performed by 
banks under Federal statute law or under regulations of the Comptroller 
°f 'the Currency. In such cases, he would dispense with the requirements 
filing of an application and for newspaper publication and simply 
require the filing of a statement of intent with the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Bank. 4 
Some Board members felt that problems were inherent in such a 
plan, and they suggested that at least in the initial stages the Federal 
Reserve should maintain adequate procedural requirements to keep fully 
breast of developments in the holding company area. Other Board 
members indicated that they would want to see Governor Mitchell's pro-
posal spelled out in documented form before reaching a determination 
W i th respect to it. 
Accordingly, the staff was requested to analyze the proposal 
Hither and present appropriate documentation to the Board for considera-
n in the near future. 

1241 
5/20/71 
-10-
Trust Company of Georgia. In February 1971 the Board had 
approved an application by Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, 
'to acquire assets and assume liabilities of Peachtree Bank and Trust 
Company, Chamblee, Georgia. In March, the Department of Justice 
Petitioned the Board to reconsider its action, and later in that month 
the Board stayed the operation of its order to permit further study of 
a-,'/. , 
, 
v 
i; 
the issues raised by the Justice Department's petition. On May 13, the 
Board considered a recommendation from its staff that it vacate the 
stay and reinstate the order issued in February approving the applica-
tion., At that time the Board voted to reconsider its approval of the 
aPPlication. Several members tentatively expressed their intention to 
v°te to approve the application, while Governor Robertson tentatively 
e*Pressed his intention to vote for denial. 
With a memorandum of May 19, the Legal Division submitted drafts 
0trap order and statement that would reflect a decision to approve the 
application, along with a draft of dissenting statement. In the memo-
*nd.um the Division also commented on certain related questions that 
had ho 
e n raised at the May 13 meeting. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, Governor 
dissenting, and authorized the issuance of the order and state-
reflecting that decision. Copies of the order and statement are 
attached 
--hi a sunder Item No. 11, along with the dissenting statement by 
G°Ve*nor Robertson. 

1242 
5/20/71 
-10-
Legislative proposals. With a memorandum dated May 17, 1971, 
the Legal Division had submitted drafts of bills and letters to appro-
priate Congressional committees reflecting the legislative recommenda-
tions approved by the Board for inclusion in its Annual Report for 1970. 
expected to be issued shortly. The draft bills were as follows: 
To enable the Federal Reserve Banks to extend credit to 
member banks or any sound collateral at a uniform rate of interest. 
iix V ; H
i
i 
! ' - ' ; . 
• i.jlii ; { h I : 
To extend Federal Reserve reserve requirements to all 
checking accounts and to make Federal Reserve credit equally 
Mailable to all institutions subject to those requirements. 
To encourage member banks of the Federal Reserve System to 
invest in community corporations. 
With its memorandum the Division also submitted a revised draft 
a bill to provide emergency authority for the guarantee of loans to 
ai H 
certain business enterprises to meet temporary and urgent financial 
needs. At the suggestion of Chairman Burns, the draft bill had been 
changed to reduce from $5 billion to $2 billion the maximum obligation 
the proposed Emergency Loan Guarantee Board under loans guaranteed 
by it. 
Several suggestions by Governor Robertson for changes in the 
esPective draft transmittal letters were agreed upon. The Board then 
the transmittal of the letters and draft bills reflecting 
the recommendations contained in its Annual Report. Copies of the 
krs and their enclosures are attached under Item No. 12, together 
with c°pies of three other letters and enclosures sent pursuant to 
e a rlier o 
it:r action of the Board. 
i 

1243 
5/20/71 
-10-
The transmittal of the draft bill on emergency loan guarantees 
also was authorized, with the understanding that the timing of the 
transmittal would be left to the discretion of the Chairman. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Supplemental retirement allowance. The directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had requested that the Board approve a 
retroactive increase in the supplemental retirement allowance payable 
t o former President Alfred H. Williams pursuant to the contract entered 
into between him and the Bank prior to his retirement, and further 
revision of the contract to provide for future periodic adjustments. 
In a memorandum dated May 18, 1971, the Committee on Organiza-
tion, Compensation, and Building Plans recommended that the Board reject 
the request. Submitted with the memorandum were drafts of letters (1) to 
the Philadelphia Bank reflecting the Committee's recommendation, and 
to the Chairmen of all Federal Reserve Banks expressing the view 
Payments under the supplemental retirement allowance agreements 
ntered into with Presidents should be made strictly in accordance with 
conditions of the agreements as in effect at the time of retirement. 
O f 
i i . 
rp i 
-Lne Board accepted the Committee s recommendation and approved 
« j wously the sending of the two letters. Copies are attached under 

1244 
5/20/71 
-10-
Director vacancy at New York. Governor Robertson referred to 
consideration being given to the appointment of Mr. C. Douglas Dillon 
as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for the 
unexpired portion of the term of Mr. Whitney Young, deceased. It 
appeared likely that Mr. Dillon would become a major shareholder, and 
Perhaps an officer, of Dillon Read & Co., and question had been raised 
whether that would create a problem from the standpoint of Mr. Dillon's 
eligibility to serve as a Class C director. Mr. Hackley had studied 
the matter, which involved a situation that apparently had not arisen 
Previously, and had provided a memorandum expressing the view that 
Dillon's service as a Class C director would be legally permissible. 
Board members expressed no objection to Mr. Hackley's conclusion. 
Governor Robertson noted, however, that it was not as yet certain that 
Mr. Dilion would accept the appointment as Class C director should such 
aPPointment be tendered. 
C 
All 
All staff members except Mr. Holland and Mr. Johnson withdrew 
at ithis point. 
Governor Maisel reported that the Board had received a letter 
M ay 13, 1971, from the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve 
of St T A • 
* J-iOuis proposing the appointment of Eugene A. Leonard as First 
resident of the Bank effective August 1, 1971, for the unexpired 
porti ° n of the five-year term ending February 29, 1976, and with salary 
at th 
e annual rate of $36,000 for the period August 1 through December 31, 
Governor Maisel indicated this proposal was agreeable to the 

•yTty^ 
124 
C 
o 
5/20/71 
-14-
Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, 
and the Board thereupon approved the proposed appointment and salary 
level. Board members expressed their commendation of the services 
rendered by Mr. Leonard as acting Assistant Secretary of the Board 
since August 1970. 
Governor Maisel and Mr. Holland then reported to the Board on 
-1, 
.ii 
, .; 
telephone conversations with Mr. Albert G„ Clay, Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, concerning possible nominees for the presi-
dency of that Bank. Chairman Clay had reported on the current status 
°f negotiations and had asked for guidance as to the salary ranges that 
might 
appropriately be cited in further negotiations with the two 
nominees most favored by the Cleveland directors. The Board had pre-
viously indicated that it regarded both of these nominees as acceptable. 
After discussion, the Board agreed as to the range of salary 
Possibilit 
ies which it considered as acceptable with respect to each of 
these candidates, and requested Governor Maisel to convey this informa-
tion to Chairman Clay. (A memorandum containing a fuller description 
O f Hi 
this discussion and the decisions reached has been placed in the 
q 
ecretary's confidential file.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
0 0 
Secretary 

m 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
2C551 
1246 
Item No. 1 
5/20/71 
ADCJREBB OFFICIAL CDHRCSPDNDKNCt 
TU THE BOARD 
May 21, 1971 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 8, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MGIBC") to pur-
chase and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of Morgan Guaranty 
investment Services S.A. ("MGIS"), Geneva, Switzerland, at a cost' 
o f approximately $232,600, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
o f the shares of MGIS is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
11 iat MGIBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MGIS if MGIS at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if MGIS establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the. time would not be permissible to MGIBC: 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, MGIBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MGIS as it may require from time 
to time; and 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MGIS 
he reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
i n the same manner as if MGIS were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

17 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by MGIS in Switzerland 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Sank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of MGIS. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines now in effect as they apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
New York and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration will be 
fciven to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 
5/20/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, 
St« Louis, Missouri, 
f°r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
First National Bank of West Plains, 
w®st Plains, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
C F R 222-3(a)), an application by First Union, Incorporated, 
St, j 
Louis, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, for the 
fcoard'n 
s prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of t, 
n e voting shares of The First National Bank of West Plains, 
6 s t Plains, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
*Utte n notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 

1249 
-2-
Of the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on February 4, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2429), 
•gar*- j j 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
*as forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
c°nsumraated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of 
j 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
this Order unless such time be extended for good cause by the 
> or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to 
dele8ated authority. 
• / 
i 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 20, 1971. 
Voting for this 
action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1250 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST UNION, INCORPORATED, ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF WEST PLAINS, WEST PLAINS, MISSOURI 
STATEMENT 
a 
First Union, Incorporated, St. Louis, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
G°vernors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
i r S t National Bank of West Plains, West Plains, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
reqvHj. , , 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
v 
Ceipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
t e n d e d approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
Pr°vides 
th 
"tat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that 
resul 
a 
A C m a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any 
°0nibinat:iOn or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize 
t h e busin e s s o f banking in any part of the United States. Nor may 

1251 
-2-
the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in 
ar*y section of the country, may be substantially to lessen com-
petition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
banner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
Mi 
e anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaetion in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served. In each case the Board is required to take into 
0Qsideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
p 0sPects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and thp 
e convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
th second largest banking organization and second largest bank 
holdini» 
8 company in Missouri by virtue of its control of seven banks 
a§8regate deposits of $002 million, representing 7.3 per cent 
^ e 
t a t 
i 
y 
u cai commercial bank deposits in the State. 
As a result 
of tli 
s Proposal, Applicant's share of deposits in the State would 
be 
reased to 3.1 per cent; however, Applicant would still rank 
3eCotid i n relation to the State's other banking organizations and 
b^nk h 
°ldlng companies. 
West Plains, the county seat of Howell County, is a rural 
^
t
y 
o f i 
aoout 7,000 located in south-central Missouri, approxi-
mat eiy 
m 
s southwest of St. Louis. The economy of Howell 
t o ^ ^ S ^ o m 1 0 8 d a t a a r e a s o f J u n e 3 0> 1 9 7 0 ' a d J u s t e d to reflect 
date, 
P a n y acquisitions and formations approved by the Board 

22 
-2-
County has experienced only insignificant growth, and its population 
has increased only about 7 per cent during the last decade. The 
same depressed condition exists in the surrounding six county area, 
and the prospects for the entire area are, at best, only fair. 
Bank ($28 million deposits), the largest of two banks in 
West Plains and the largest of four banks in Howell County, holds 
60.9 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the county* 
Even though Bank is the largest bank in the county, the other Howell 
County banks appear to be effective competitors, especially the 
fcher West Plains bank which has new and aggressive management, and 
S h° U l d n o t b e adversely affected by Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank. 
Applicant's subsidiary closest to Bank is located over 
0 miles away. None of Applicant's subsidiaries derives any 
a n t amount of business from Bank's service area. Nor does 
Bank ompete in any of those areas served by Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Cotise 
q U e n t ly> it does not appear that any existing competition 
e eliminated by the consummation of this proposal. 
in connection with its review of the application, the 
B°ard h 
a s considered a view expressed by the Department of Justice 
that the Gff 
^tect of the transaction on competition would be "signifi-
cantiy 
a 
verse.M The principal arguments of the Department are 
the acquisition would entrench Bank's dominant position and 

-2-
1253 
raise barriers to entry, and that alternative methods of entry into 
Howell County are open to Applicant, The Department believes it 
Preferable that Applicant enter the area by either establishing 
a new bank or by acquiring one of the smaller banks in the county. 
The acquisition of a significant competitor by a large institution 
does raise, to a limited extent, barriers to entry into an area. 
However, the more significant objection raised by the Department 
relates to alternative methods of entry into the area. Based on 
t h e facts of record, Applicant's entry into Howell County through 
a*ternative means does not appear to be feasible. 
The population-to-bank ratio in Howell County is approxi-
a t e l y 5 p e r 
bank, considerably below the State average of 
ab°ut7,000 per bank. Additionally, the high level of unemployment 
the lou p e r capita income are indicative of the depressed 
naturG 
n f , u 
. 
r t h e area's economy. 
The combination.of these 
t 0 r s makes de novo entry most unattractive. Of course, .it is con-
vable that Applicant could attempt to acquire one of the 
8inalier h 
°anks in the county. Applicant, however, indicates 
th 
e o t her West Plains bank does not appear to be available 
for 
isition because of a recent change in ownership, and that 
APpiiCant 
c would not attempt to acquire either of the two Howell 
c<>unty b 
anks, which are not located in West Plains, the trade 
C^t Q l : f o r 
he region, Moreover, the area's economy appears to 
a , 
arger bank with sufficient resources to assist in the 

1254 
-2-
^evelopment of the area and only Bank is in a position to meet this 
n eed, In summary, the Board does not consider the possible alternatives 
Ascribed above to be so clearly preferable from a competitive 
standpoint or so likely to occur as to require the denial of a 
Proposal which should provide immediate benefits to Howell County 
a n d the surrounding area. 
In light of the above circumstances, the Board concludes 
t h a t t h e consummation of the proposed transaction would not result 
i n a monopoly, nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
n l t e d States, and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen 
petition or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
financial condition and management of Applicant and its sub-
es are regarded as satisfactory, and their prospects appear 
A r a b l e . 
The financial condition of Bank is regarded as satisfactory. 
Present-
n c management of Bank is considered competent, but Bank 
lacks 
anagement depth, and affiliation with Applicant should 
Strei*gthen t n e present management and assure Bank of competent 
^
S
B
P 
succession. 
These consideration are consistent with, and lend some 
Wet8ht i n 
. 
o r o f» approval of the application. 

6-
1255 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
major banking needs of the communities served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries would not be affected by consummation of the present 
Proposal. 
Although the present banking needs of Howell County 
aPPear to be met by the existing banking institutions, the intro-
Action of the State's second largest banking organization, with 
it;s full range of banking services, could provide some stimulus 
t o the depressed economy of the area. Specifically, Applicant 
intends to assist Bank in expanding and improving its lending 
pr°8ram in the areas of housing, agriculture, and industrial 
evelopment. Applicant also proposes to establish data processing 
a n d trust services. The addition and expansion of these services 
h°uld enhance Bank's capabilities in assisting in the development 
area. 
These considerations relating to the convenience and 
nseds of t-k 
cne communities involved lend strong weight in support 
°f aPProval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevnt 
facts 
°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth i 
^ 
n section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and 
^at the 
application should be approved. 
^ 
1971. 

1256 
Item No. 3 
5/20/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D." C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
VALLEY BANCORPORATION, 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
f o r approval of acquisition of 80 
P^r cent or more of the voting shares 
Badger State Bank, Denmark, 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8ection 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) a n d s e c t i o n 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
m 
C F R 222*3(a)), an application by Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, 
Wis 
c°nsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
v°ting shares of Badger State Bank, Denmark, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
A s required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten 
U c e of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banki 
n8 of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and 
ndation. The Commissioner offered no objection to approval 
°f t h e application. 

-2-
27 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 6, 1971 (36 Federal Register 6543), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a n d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
^anks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the seventh largest registered bank holding 
°®Pany and banking organization in Wisconsin, controls ten banks 
h°lding aggregate deposits of $123 million which represent 1.4 per 
of 
o r commercial bank deposits in the State of Wisconsin. 
(All 
b a n k l n g d a t a are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect bank holding 
companv 
y acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Upon acquisi-
tio 
n o f Bank ($7,5 million in deposits), Applicant's control of 
^Posits i 
in the State of Wisconsin would increase to 1.5 per cent. 
Bank, located in the southeast section of Brown County, 
is the 
deventh largest of 16 banking organizations in the Green 
Bay smca ' h o l ding 2.3 per cent of deposits in that area. Applicant's 

1258 
-2-
closest subsidiary is Reedsville State Bank which is located in 
Reedsville, Matiitowoc County, 22 miles southwest of Denmark. There 
is no present competition between Bank and that bank or any other 
o f Applicant's subsidiaries. In light of the low population of 
the area, and the fact that Wisconsin law prohibits branching into 
° r within three miles of communities already having a bank or 
branch, the possibility of such competition arising in the future 
spears remote. No existing competition would be eliminated by 
consummation of the proposal, nor would significant potential 
competition be foreclosed. Neither would there be any adverse 
effects on any bank in the area. 
There is no evidence that significant banking needs of 
t h e community are going unserved; however, affiliation with Applicant 
° u ld allow Bank to provide additional services such as data processing 
n d trust services. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needg 0f 
the communities to be served are thus consistent with approval. 
h e Prospects and financial condition of Bank are regarded as 
actory. Bank's management is nearing retirement age and 
ation with Applicant would facilitate management succession; 
this f 
actor lends some weight toward approval. It is the Board's 
Sinent that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be 
t h e public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby orderedT For the reasons set forth above, 
that 8 a l d application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
aC(Juisiti n S o approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 

1259 
-2-
thirtleth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 20, 1971, 
•'ft , : • 
\ a y i 
Voting for this action: Chairman Eurns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
i i 
1$ 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

Item No. 4 
5/20/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C, 
*n the Matter of the Application of 
NJN BANCORPORATION, 
Trenton, New Jersey, 
approval of action to become a • 
^nk holding company through the acquisi-
of 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying 
shares)-of the voting shares 
r New Jersey National Bank, Trenton, 
Ne» Jersey. 
|1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e c U o n 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(i))> a n d s e c t i o n 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by NJN Bancorporation, Trenton, 
Jersey ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of action 
y Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
cl-on of 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the 
°ting shares of New Jersey National Bank, Trenton, New Jersey 
("Bank"), 

1261 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7329), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit .comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
si H 
Nation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
e c t of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
nd managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
Q ^ 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
°mmunities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
PurPose of acquiring Bank (deposits $467.1 million). As it has 
Preoent operations or subsidiaries, consummation of the pro-
would eliminate neither existing nor potential competition. 
^eith 
e r does it appear that there would be adverse effects on any 
l n the area involved. 

-3-
1262 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Bank are satisfactory, as would be those of Applicant upon consum-
mation of the proposal, and are consistent with approval. Consum-
ption of the proposal would have no immediate effect on the 
convenience and needs of the community involved. Considerations 
under these factors are consistent with approval. It is the Board's 
judgme nt that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, 
Qr*d that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
^ater than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
i 
••• • 
1
, 
Pe*iod is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
S e r v e Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 20, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
t: 
! 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
i 

12G3 
Item No. 5 
5/20/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
THE TORONTO-DOMINION BANK, 
T°ronto, Ontario, Canada, 
approval to become a bank holding 
c^pany through the acquisition of 
u o per cent (less directors' qualify-
ing shares) of the voting shares of 
S a
r°S t 0 D o m i n i o n B a n k o f California, 
n Francisco, California, a proposed 
n e* bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME A 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
° n 3<a)(l) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
42<a)(l)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 
° F R 222.3(a)), the application of The Toronto-Dominion Bank, 
Toro 
Ontario, Canada ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior 
approval t 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of ^ q q 
P e r c e n t (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting 
S h a r eS Of Tr» 
Toronto Dominion Bank of California, San Francisco, 
° a lif 0 r n a ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 

-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the California 
Superintendent of Banks and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on March 25, 1971 (36 Federal Register 5641), pro-
v i n g an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
Vle*s with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
f o 
^warded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
° n. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
teceived have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of 
the Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
e Bank 
n * and the convenience and needs of the community to be 
'» and finds that: 
d e 
Applicant is a Canadian commercial bank with $5 billion in 
s and 769 banking offices located throughout Canada. In the 
~ 
n , 
a t G s , Applicant has agencies in New York City and San 
Q QQ 
and representative offices in Chicago, Los Angeles and 
• Additionally, it owns a trust company in New York City 
h does „ 
not accept demand deposits. 
V t e d 
FtanCi 
**ou8t 

Within the immediate area of Bank are head offices of 
three of the five largest banks in California as well as branch 
offices of the remaining two largest banks. Based on the record 
before it, the Board concludes that Bank's entry into this area 
^ill have no adverse effects on existing or potential competition. 
Rather, the addition of Bank will provide increased banking facil-
ities and competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects 
Applicant and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
o f the application. Considerations relating to the convenience 
atld needs of the community to be served lend some weight toward 
aPProval, due to the addition to the area of a new bank and another 
international banking link to Canada. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
flftdings summarized above that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date r»f 
o t this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date 
of t« . 
ls Order, and provided further that (c) Toronto Dominion Bank 
california shall be open for business not later than six months 
ft°r t h e date of this Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) 
may be extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve r , 
£ 
^anu of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 

±266 
-4-
By order of the Board of Governors, Hay 20, 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

# 
-V j| 
te 
1|. . . m 
M
&
M 
1 2 6 7 
•f^Tw^V 
.. 
I,-,.. -M-. --„•». 
, J. -, 
- . . .,. . . . . .^y, 
• ...is-
For release in morning papers 
Friday, May 28, 1971 
Item No. 6 
5/20/71 
May 27, 1971 
The Board of Governors of^the Federal Reserve System today 
announced amendments to its bank holding company regulation to imple-
InCnt» i n part, those portions of the "Bank Holding Company Amendments 
1970" that permit expansion of such companies into activities closely 
rdated to banking. 
The regulatory amendments, effective June 15, list seven 
t,cti»;ities that the Board has found to be closely related to banking, 
managing or controlling banks, and thus permissible for bank holding 
ClnPanie8 subject to Board approval in individual cases. The aoiendmants 
vl° Qpell o ut the procedures to be followed by the Board in processing 
aPplicaM 
1 Liens by individual companies that are filed under Section 4(c)8 
tl>e Rank Holding Company Act. 
Under the amendments, a bank holding company may apply to the 
serve for permission to retain or acquire an interest in a 
y that engages solely in one or more of the following activities: 
i- Making or acquiring, for its own account or for the 
n t of others, loans and other extensions of credit (including 
8 lotters of credit and accepting drafts), such as would be made, 
example » 
> oy a mortgage, finance, credit card, or factoring company. 
• 1. * i I ** r:j «;* 
fr 
i 
* : 
- 
v 
r\ 
Operating as an industrial bank, Morris Plan bank, or in-
^ e r a l R e 
ficc0 
iasuin 
for 
Clustrial 
company in the manner authorized by State law so long as 
^nstitut' 
1 0 n ,Joos ri°t both accept demand deposits and make commercial 
io ail' 

1268 
- 2-
3. Servicing loans and other extensions of credit for any 
person. 
4. Performing or carrying on any one or more of the functions 
oi* activities that may be performed or carried on by a trust company 
(including activities of a fiduciary, agency, or custodian nature), in 
the manner authorized by State law so long as the institution does not 
both accept demand deposits and make commercial loans. 
5. Acting as investment, or financial adviser, including 
( n ) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate 
investment trust and (b) furnishing economic or financial information. 
6. Leasing personal property and equipment, or acting as 
aG(-nt, broker, or adviser in leasing of such property, where at the 
i n 
c«ption of the initial lease the expectation is that the effect of 
tlV 0 
e transaction and reasonably anticipated future transactions with the 
same 1 
J-1-88CC as to the same property will be to compensate the lessor for 
n 0 t l e R 8 than the lessor's full investment in the property. 
7. Making equity and debt investments in corporations or 
Project* 
j 
J 
designed primarily to promote community welfare, such as the 
°nomic rehabilitation and development of low-income areas. 
These seven activities are substantially the same as the ones 
* J n .. -
PtOpoSo,l 1 
Dy the Board on January 25, 1971, when it announced plans to 
JlKS ;'/;>-. 
' 
. . . . . 
its Bank Holding Company Regulation Y as a first step toward im-
ilMrl, 
X V• y 
-ng the 197(j amendments. Changes made in the original proposal 
^nical in nature or designed to clarify the Board's intent in 
View of PnHic comments received since January in written form and in 
Pubu P , 
l c hearings. 

1269 
- 2-
Three other proposed activities listed by the Board last 
January--two relating to insurance activities and a third to data 
processing--are still under consideration. The permissible activi-
ties do not include operating as a savings and loan association, 
acting as investment advisor to an open-end investment company or as 
a management consultant, or investing, in an industrial development 
corporation. The Board is considering whether to propose adding these 
and other activities to the list. 
Under the original. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, only 
thos e -holding companies that controlled 25 per cent or more of the 
voting stock of two or more banks were required to register with the 
Federal Reserve and limit their activities to banking and closely re-
lated activities. 
In the 1970 amendments, Congress expanded the Act 
to cover companies that control only one bank, gave the Board greater 
latitude to determine when control exists, and amended other parts of 
the Act under which bank holding companies may engage in bank-related 
activities. Companies covered by the 1970 amendments must register with 
the Federal Reserve by June 29, 1971. 
In listing activities regarded as closely related to banking, 
the Board partially implemented Section 4(c)8 of the Act which states, 
Part, that a bank holding company may acquire "shares of any company 
the activities of which the Board after due notice and opportunity for 
hearing has determined (by order or regulation) to be so closely related 
t o hanking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto." 

1270 
-2-
• The regulatory amendments do not limit the location of a 
permissible activity to any State or other geographical area but 
• ] i 
limitations may be imposed by order in individual cases. 
Under procedures spelled out by the Board, a bank holding 
company desiring to engage in one of the permissible activities through 
a newly formed ("de novo") subsidiary must furnish the district Federal 
Reserve Bank with a copy of a notice of its proposal that was published 
within the preceding 30 days in a newspaper of general circulation in 
« t 
11 • 
. 
the communities to be served by that subsidiary. The holding- company 
way engage in the activity 45 days after the notice is filed with the 
Federal Reserve unless the company is notified to the contrary within 
that Lime. In exigent circumstances a holding company might be permitted 
- a'-
Xi 
,, 
to begin such activity before expiration of the 45-day period. 
A bank holding company desiring t:o acquire an estab 1 ished 
company engaged in a permissible activity must file an application with 
its Reserve Bank. This application must be accompanied by a copy of 
mU 
•• 
notice of the proposal that was published within the preceding 30 days 
in a general circulation newspaper in the communities to be served. Ihe 
• i \. • , 
Eoard will publish notice in the Federal Register of any application to 
acquire or retain an interest in a goinj, concern and will give interested 
Persons an opportunity to express views, including by means of a hearing 
Where appropriate, on the question whether the activity proposed can be 
oi'u^i ' • , 
expected to produce public benefits that outweigh possible adverse effects 
Any bank holding company may apply to the Board to engage in 
Q n activity not included specifically in the Regulation if it is of the 

1271 
-2-
opinion that the activity is closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks. Applications of this type will be processed under 
the same procedures as applications to acquire a going concern engaged 
in one of the specified activities. However, the Board will publish 
a notice of opportunity for hearing only if it believes that there is 
a reasonable basis for Che holding company's opinion that the activity 
npplied for is closely related to banking. 
The regulation specifies that each acquisition under Section 
4<c)C of the Act will be subject to these three conditions: 
1. Services shall not be tied in to services of a holding 
^ p a n y ' s banking subsidiaries, or otherwise conditioned in a manner 
t^t if offered by a bank would violate the provisions of section 106 
°t-the 1970 amendments, 
2. 
Activities shall not be altered in any significant respect 
fig* 
ror" those considered by the Board. 
3. The company, acquired by a bank holding company must receive 
* Board approval of any merger or acquisition of assets if the 
8 company will continue to own--directly or indirectly--more than 
£ ive 
i r cent of the voting shares of the subsidiary or its successor. 
In a separate action, the Board delegated to the Reserve Banks 
the bast 
c responsibility for administering applications filed under 
°n 4(c)8 as it relates to activities commenced through a newly 
f°rmed tA 
W e novo) subsidiary. 
to 
The Board also delegated to the Reserve Banks the authority 
-ermine when a proposal filed under Section 4(c)12 of the Act and 

42 
Am) 
-6-
Regulation Y should be suspended for additional inquiry or Board 
determination. That section permits a company covered by the 1970 
amendments to acquire shares of any company--subject to conditions 
prescribed by the Board--r»o long as it dives to itself by January 1, 
1981, of either its bank or of activities unrelated to banking. Under 
. regulatory amendments announced earlier by the Board, a company that 
files an irrevocable declaration that it will cease to be a bank holding 
company by January 1, 1901, may acquire subsidiaries under a simplified 
'•^Procedure. 
The Board also approved the application form to be used by 
a company seeking to make an acquisition under Section 4(c)8. This 
re } 
„ 
urnH-F,R. Y-4--is to be used by bank holding companies applying to 
°cquire a fcoing concern or where the activity to be acquired has not 
keen determined by Board regulation to he closely related to banking. 
°Pies of the form will be available at the Reserve Banks. 
.,, , Attached arc copies of the regulatory amendments approved by 
R Board, the forms to be used for newspaper publication cf notice to 
estat>li8lt, acquire, or retain a bank-related activity, and an interpre-
tati 
o n relating to acquisitions to be made under Section 4(c)8. 

127.° 
O 
Item No. 7 
5/20/71 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING . 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. Y] 
i Vr ••'.; -v.: .'.'>•* 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Rceioter on January 29, 1971 (36 F.R. 1430), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to implement its regulatory authority under section 4(c)(8) 
fche Bank Holding Company Act to permit holding companies to engage 
M e e t l y or through a subsidiary in activities that are "so closely 
Elated to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper 
*ncident thereto," A hearing was held before members of the Board on 
U , 1971, regarding all issues rained by the proposals, except 
the 
eHtcnt to which data processing and insurance agency activities 
Q r e closely related to banking. 
Following consideration of the comments received and the 
r°cord of the hearing, as its initial implementation of its authority 
Und°r 5 4(c)(8) of the Act as revised by the 1970 amendments to the 
Act 
m 
» the Board has amended § 222.4(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation Y to 
as act forth below, effective June 15, 1971. (Former paragraphs 
and ( c ) w c r e nonflubstantive.) An accompanying interpretation ex-
PtGsse8 the Board's views on several questions that arose during the 
0 £ its consideration of this matter. 

§ 222,4 Noribanking activities. 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
In accordance with the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, any bank holding company may 
engage, or retain or acquire an interest in a company that engages, 
solely in one or more of the activities specified below, including 
such incidental activities as are necessary to carry on the activities 
so specified. Any bank holding company that is of the opinion that 
other activities in the circumstances surrounding a particular case are 
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks may file 
u n application in accordance with the procedures set forth in para-
erCiph 
As to such an application, the Board will publish in 
J.J flj^ 
e tedferal Register a notice of opportunity for hearing only if it 
believes that there is a reasonable basis for the holding company's 
°Piniont 
The following activities have been determined by the Board 
to b 
c so Closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
Q s to be a proper incident thereto: 
'/?! \ 
U ) making or acquiring, for its own account or for the 
ecount of others, loans and other extensions of credit (including 
S u in« letters of credit and accepting drafts), such as would be 
Uiade fn 
* 
example, by a mortgage, finance, crcdit card, or factoring 
COc3pany;~-^ 
savings and loan association is not regarded by the 
e H P M i n W 
U n t h e d e s c r iP t : L o n 
this activity. Whether to propi 
lnotitUM a r' t i v i t y 
t o include operating that type of financial 
a l a under consideration bv the Board. 
>ose 

- 3 
1275; 
(2) operating as an industrial bank, Morris Plan bank, or 
industrial loan company, in the manner authorized by State law so 
long a3 the institution does not both accept demand deposits and 
make commercial loans; 
(3) servicing loans and other extensions of credit for 
any person; 
(4) performing or carrying on any cne or mora of the func-
tions or activities that may be performed or carried on by a trust 
company (including activities of a fiduciary, agency, or custodian 
nature), in the manner authorized by State law so long as the insti-
•f 
.•.J. [ 
tution does not both accept demand deposits and make commercial loans;— 
( 5 ) acting as investment or financial adviser, including 
(i) serving as the advisory company for a mortgage or a real estate 
"k'k 
investment trust and (ii) furnishing economic or financial information; 
(6) leasing personal property and equipment, or acting as 
Q8«snt, broker, or adviser in leasing of such property, where at the 
inception of the initial lease the expectation is that the effect of 
tho transaction and reasonably anticipated future transactions with 
fch 
e same lessee as to the same property will be to compensate the 
lessor for not less than the lessor's full investment in the property; 
ft* 
as 
n s investment adviser to an open-end investment company or 
des^* t ? G n a 2 C m G n t consultant is not regarded by the Board as within the 
(5\ C r i p ti° n 
this activity. Whether to propose expanding activity 
' t o include acting in either or both of those capacities is under 
0l*sideration by the Board. 

. 4 _ 
127C 
(7) making equity and debt investments in corporations or 
projects designed primarily to promote community welfare, such as the 
economic rehabilitation and development of low-Income areas.—— 
(b)(1) Dg novo entry, A bank holding company may engage 
novo (or continue to engage in an activity earlier commenced 
directly or indirectly, solely in activities described in 
paragraph (a), 45 days after the company hc,s furnished its Reserve 
Rank with a copy of a notice of the proposal (in substantially the 
same form as F.R, Y~4A) published within the preceding 30 days in a 
aewapnper of general circulation in the communities to be servedt 
unless the company is notified t:o the contrary within that time or 
unless it is permitted to consummate the transaction at an earlier 
date on the basis of exigent circumstances of a particular case, 
If adverse comments of a substantive nature arc received by the 
P« p 
v.ocrve Bank within 30 days after the company has so published its 
Proposal, 
o r 
it- otherwise appears appropriate in a particular 
case, the Reserve Bank may inform the company that (i) the proposal 
shal.l not be consummated until specifically authorized by the Reserve 
fcaiu or by the Board or (ii) the proposal should be processed in 
Accordance with the procedures of subparagraph (2). 
.„• — - — — 
bv 
ve8t--ng in an industrial development corporation is not regarded 
tl>e Board as within the description of this activity. Whether to 
pose adding that and other activities to the list in under conside-
ration. 
' I f 
> 
8fcanfQ ^ o s e r v e 
decides that adverse comments are not of a sub-
by 
1 V c nature, the person submitting the comments may request review 
§ 2c<° *''0arc* 
that decision in accordance with the provisions of 
265 
t h c B o n r d 's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 
' l,y filing a petition for review with the Secretary of the Board. 

127? 
- 5 -
(2) Acquisition of ftoing concern, A bank holding company 
i 
may apply to the Board to acquirc or retain the assets of or shares 
in a company engaged solely in activities described in paragraph (a) 
by filing an application with it3 Reserve Bank (Form F.R. Y-4)• 
Every such application shall be accompanied by a copy of a notice 
of the proposal (in substantially the flame form as F.R, Y-4E) 
published withi n the preceding 30 days in a newspaper of general 
•rtr v >! . 
circulation in the communities to be served. The Board will publish 
in the Federal Register notice of any such application and will give 
interested persons an opportunity to express their views (including 
where Appropriate, by means of a hearing) on the question whether 
Performance of the activity proposed by the holding corrpany can reason* 
ably be expected to produce benefits to the public, ouch cg greater 
convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that 
outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration 
of. 
resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
0 r unsound banking practices, 
(c) T i . e - j a l derations, re 1 o
c
a
t
l
o
> 
Sxccp% 
otherwise provided in an order in a particular case, the following 
c°nditionc shall apply with respect to every acquisition consummated 
Activity engaged in on the authority of § 4(c)(0) of the Act: 
the provision of any credit, property or services involved .shall 
no(- be subject: to any condition which, if imposed by a bank, would 
const*f. 
U C c an unlawful tie-in arrangement under scction 106 of the 

1278 
~ 6 -
Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970; (2) the activities 
involved shall not be altered in any significant respect from those 
considered by the Board in making the determination, nor provided 
at any location other than those described in the notice published 
with respect to such determination, except upon compliance with the 
Procedures of paragraph (b)(1)» and (3) no merger, or acquisition of 
assets other than in the ordinary course of business, to which the 
ac<iuited company is a party shall be consummated without prior Board 
approval, if thereafter the bank holding company will continue to 
jack IX" 
• 
°v'n> directly or indirectly, more than five per cent of the voting 
s^ares of such company or its successor, 
Cfloctivo date. June 15, 1971 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 20, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
' , ;r . r ' • - , - * 
. • 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

127P 
. r 
Item No.*8 
5/20/71 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II~«rFEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg, Y] 
PART 222--BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
§ 222.123 Activities closely related to banking. 
(a) Effective June 15, 1971, the Board of Governors has 
amended § 222.4(a) of Regulation Y to implement its regulatory 
authority under § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, In some 
Aspects activities determined by the Board to be closely related 
t o banking are described in general terms that will require inter-
Potation from time to time. The Board's views on some questions 
fchat have arisen are set forth belox*. 
(b) Section 222.4(a) states that a company whose ownership 
ky a bank holding company i3 authorized on the basis of that section 
m ay engage solely in specified activities. That limitation refers 
°nly to activities the authority for which depends on § 4(c)(8) 
the Act. It does not prevent a holding company from establishing 
° n G subsidiary to engage, for example, in activities specified in 
* ^2.4(a) 
and also in activities that fall within the scope of 
8 <<c>U)(c> of the Act-»the "servicing" exemption, 
(c) The amendments to § 222.4(a) do not apply to restrict 
th 
Activities of a company previously approved by the Board on the 
s of § 4(c)(8) of the Act. Activities of a company authorized 
I 
si 

127? 
- 5 -
on the bar,Is of § 4(c) (8) either before the 1970 Amendments or pur-
suant to the amended 5 222.4(a) may be shifted in a corporate reorga-
nization to another company within the holding company system without 
complying with the procedures of § 222.4(b), as long as all the 
activities of such company are permissible under one of the exemptions 
in section 4. 
(d) Permissible leasing activities are limited to trans-
actions where the lease is the functional equivalent of an extension 
of credit to the leasee. Accordingly, a company may engage in leasing 
under § 222.4(e) if, at the time of the acquisition of the property 
by the lessor, there is a lease agreement that will yield a return 
*:l0m 
rentals, (2) estimated salvage value at the end of the 
minimum useful life allowed by the Internal Revenue Service, and 
•3) estimated tax benefits (investment tax credit and tax deferral 
p 
•rom accelerated depreciation) that would result in full recovery of 
tlle lessor's acquisition cost. The Board understands that by law 
GOrnc municipal corporations may not enter into a lease for a period 
excess of one year. Such an impediment docs not disqualify a 
c°Npany authorized under § 222.4(a) from entering into a lease with 
,uiucipality if the company reasonably anticipates that the 
Ul)icipality will renew the lease annually until such time as the 
0rnpany i3 £ u l l y c o r a p e n s a t e c l f o r i t 3 i n v e s t r o e n t i n t h e i e a s c d property. 
c°rapany authorized under 5 222.4(a) may also engage in so-called 
'"bri 
ii 
2e lease financing where the lease is short term pending com-
Pletio n of long-term financing, by the same or another lender. 

51 
~ 
6 
-
(e) The authority of holding companies under 2 222.4(a) 
to invest in corporations designed to promote the welfare of their 
community is intended to permit holding companies to fulfill their 
civic responsibilities. Under that authority a holding company 
may invest in community development corporations established pursuant 
to Federal or State law. It may also participate in other civic 
projects, such as a municipal parking facility sponsored by a local 
civic organization as a means to promote greater use by the public 
of the community's facilities. It does r.ot, however, authorize 
investments (for example, ownership of an apartment complex) that 
are entered into to a substantial extent for profit even though to 
some extent: the investment will benefit the community. 
(f) Under the procedures in £ 222.4(c), a holding company 
that wishes to cliange the location at which it engages in activities 
authorized pursuant to § 222.4(a) must publish notice in a newspaper 
"'•'IHrl •1 1 V ' i • i 
i •' t 
« /» r' J« * 
\ 
t f \ y\ 
V.' 
;» 
< -.-. J '• 
r . • 1 1 • ' 
general circulation in the community to be served. The Board dees 
n o t regard minor changes in location as within the coverage of that 
requirement. A move from one site to another within a one mile radius 
^ould constitute such a minor change if the new site is in the same 
Stare 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8).) 
By order of the Board of Governors, Hay 20, 1571. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
ISEAL] 

Item No.' 9 
5/20/71 
52 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Nonbank Activities Commenced Ae novo 
Effective June 15, 1971, the Board has implemented its 
authority under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act to 
permit holding companies to engage directly or through a subsidiary 
in activities that are "so closely related to banking or managing 
or contolling banks as to be a proper incident thereto." As permitted 
by section 4(e)(8), the Board differentiated in the procedures that 
holding companies must follow in expanding their activities under 
section 4(c)(o) between activities commenced de novo and activities 
commenced by the acquisition of a going concern. 
The Board has delegated to the Reserve Banks authority to 
Permit holding companies to engage de novo in activities the Board 
has determined to be closely related to banking. 
• The delegation is reflected in the following amendment to 
5 265.2(f) of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority: 
^ 
Specific functions delegated to Board employees and 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(f) Each Federal Reserve Bonk is authorized; as to member % 
bonks or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 
Vf 
* 
* 
* 
* 

1283 
~ 6 -
(20) Under & 222.4(b)(1) of this Chapter (Regulation Y), 
and subject to § 265.3 if a person submitting adverse comments that 
the Reserve Bank has decided are not substantive files a petition 
for review by the Board of that decision, 
(i) to permit a bank holding company that has furnished 
it with a copy of a duly published notice of a proposal to engage 
£9.1Y2 in activities specified in § 222.4(a) (or retain shares in 
a company established de novo and engaging in such activities) if 
its evaluation of the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Uolding Company Act leads it to conclude that: the proposal can 
reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public. 
(ii) to notify a bank holding company that has furnished 
it: with a duly published notice of the kind described in clause (i) 
that the proposal should not be consummated until specifically 
authorized by the Reserve Banlc or by the Board or that the proposal 
should be processed in accordance with the procedures of § 222.4(b)(2). 
(iii) to permit a bank holding company that has furnished it 
^ith a duly published notice of the kind described in clause (i) to 
consummate the proposal before the expiration of the 45-day period 
deferred to in § 222.4(b)(1), because exigent circumstances justify 
consummation ct an earlier time. 
(21) Undo* 5 222.4(c)(2) of this Chapter (Regulation Y) to 
Permit or stay a proposed do novo modification or relocation of 

- 3 -
1284 
activities engaged in by a bank holding company on the same basis 
an dje novo proposals under the preceding subparagraph (20). 
* 
Vc 
* 
* 
"A" 
Effective date. This amendment is effective June 15, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 20, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
~ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL] 

B O A R D TJF G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
CD. C. 
20551 
1285 
Item No. 10 
5/20/71 
S-2162 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O H R E b P • f J D K N C: E
TO THE HOARD 
• Rf. J . 
Hay 25, 1971 
Enclosed in Federal Register form are the following docu-
ments: 
(1) amendments to § 222.4(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation Y 
t o implement the Board's authority under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
folding Company Act as revised by the 1970 amendments, (2) an inter-
pretation to accompany those amendments, and (3) amendments to the 
board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority delegating to the 
Reserve Banks authority to permit holding companies to engage de novo 
J-1* activities the Board has determined to be closely related to bank-
in8. The amendments and interpretation become effective .Tune 15, 1971. 
Also enclosed are Forms F.R. Y-4A and Y-4B for use in 
c°nnection with the amendments to Regulation Y. 
. 
Under the amendments to the Rules Regarding Delegation of 
uthority ,:he Reserve Banks have the basic responsibility for admin-
i8tering section 4(c)(0) of the Act as it relates to activities 
commenced de novo. 
, 
In the Board's judgment, usually activities commenced 
^ novo can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public, 
^cause jde novo expansion generally increases competition. However, 
»e circumstances surrounding a particular proposal might lead to a 
u°atrary conclusion, because of an undue concentration of resources, 
. a i r competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking 
Ptacticcs. 
o £ 
Consequently, if the expansion is into a market where one 
subsidiary banks of the holding company has a commanding 
i n
G i t l o n (50 per cent market share) or there is a great disparity 
between the holding company and its competitors in the 
of entry, an appropriate investigation of the competitive 
Ccts should be made. 

1286 
~ 2 -
However, if the 
novo expansion takes place outside the 
markets of the holding company's subsidiary banks and investigation 
reveals that the competitors in the market of entry are not signifi-
cantly smaller than the holding company organization, no investiga-
tion of the competitive effects should normally be required, 
A Reserve Bank that has doubts regarding the competitive 
aspects of a proposal should consult the Banking Markets Section 
of the Board's Division of Research and Statistics. A Reserve Bank 
nay also wish to consult other Reserve Banks in processing proposals 
to engage in business in other districts. 
Following the newspaper publication of a holding company's 
Proposal, comments by persons who believe that they will be adversely 
affected by consummation of the proposal may be filed with the Reserve 
Ijank in whose district the notice was published. Such comments should 
be forwarded to the holding company's Reserve Bank as defined in 
5 222.1(b) of Regulation Y, together with any views the forwarding 
Reserve Bank might have on the matter. 
The holding company's Reserve Bank should evaluate such 
cements and views in deciding whether to inform the holding company 
•"at its proposal (i) should not be consummated until specifically 
authorized by the Reserve Bank or by the Board or (ii) should be 
Processed in accordance with the procedures of subparagraph (b)(2) 
5 222.4. 
•••J 
i...•. «,/.<..-.> 
. 
. 
the Reserve Bank decides that the comments are not 
^ stantive and that consummation of the holding company's proposal 
c °ultI not be delayed, it should inform the person submitting the 
ottments of the reasons for the Reserve Bank's decision and of the 
Person's right to have the Reserve Bank's decision reviewed by the 
R°ard in accordance with the procedure outlined in § 265.3 of the 
U 
3 Regarding Delegation of Authority. 
rn. 
t 
Such information should be furnished to the person sub-
adc 
conlruenl:8 
such manner as may he necessary to give him 
(iuate time to decide whether to request Board review, to prepare 
^Petition for such review, and to transmit it to the Secretary of 
0n° ^ 0 a r t l to arrive in Washington at least by the close of business 
ne sixth day before the date consummation of the transaction 

128 
3 
would bccome permissible. Procedures for prompt review of comments 
received toward the end of the comment period should be established. 
Special procedures will be necessary in those cases where the 
holding company proposes, because of exigent circumstances, to 
consummate its proposal before the end of the 45-day notification 
procedure. 
Very truly yours 
Kenneth A. Kenyc 
Deputy Secretary 
r?}.* a Enclosures 
(Banks and branches) 
'I 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1288 
Item No. 11 
5/20/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
tRUST COMPANY OF GEORGIA, 
Atlanta, Georgia, 
approval of acquisition of assets 
a n d assumption of liabilities of 
*eachtree Bank and Trust Company, 
Chamblee, Georgia. 
ORDER ON PETITION FOR 
RECONSIDERATION. 
On February 22, 1971, the Board of Governors issued an Order 
Pu*suant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C, 1828(c)), approving an 
aPPHcation by Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, for prior 
aPproval of the merger of Trust Company with Peachtree Bank and Trust 
^°®pany, Chamblee, Georgia, by means of Trust Company's purchase of 
assets and assumption of liabilities of Peachtree Bank. 
In order to permit study of the complex procedural and sub-
stative issues raised by a petition by the United States Department 
Justice for reconsideration of that Order, the Board, on March 19, 
1971 
A> stayed its operation. 

1289 
- 6 -
After study of those issues, the Board finds that reconsideration 
its Order of February 22, 1971 would be appropriate and in the public 
interest. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
accompanying Statement and in the Board's Order of February 22, 1971, 
that the Orders of March 19 and February 22, 1971 be and hereby are 
Vacated, and it is further ordered. That the application be and hereby 
i a approved, provided that the merger so approved shall not be consum-
^tad (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°*der or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
e*al Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 20, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action (on the merits of the application): 
Governor Robertson 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
tSEAl] 

1290 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
TRUST COMPANY OF GEORGIA, ATLANTA, GEORGIA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF ASSETS AND ASSUMPTION 
OF LIABILITIES OF PEACHTREE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
CHAMBLEE, GEORGIA 
STATEMENT 
On February 22, 1971 the Board of Governors issued an Order 
Pu*suant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), approving an 
aPplication by Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia ("Trust 
^Pany"), for prior approval of the merger of Trust Company with 
eachtree Bank and Trust Company, Chamblee, Georgia ("Peachtree Bank"), 
ky means of Trust Company's purchase of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of Peachtree Bank, As an incident to the merger, the two 
0ffices of Peachtree Bank would become branches of Trust Company. 
On March 2, 1971, the Department of Justice filed with the 
a petition requesting reconsideration of the Board's Order of 
^Gh 
D*uary 22, 1971, The petition was brought pursuant to § 262.3(f)(6) 
8*ant any request for reconsideration unless "the request presents 
Board's Rules of Procedure, which provides that the Board will 
not 
V ant facts that, for good cause shown, were not previously presented 

1291 
- 2 -
to the Board, or unless it otherwise appears to the Board that recon-
sideration would be appropriate," Opportunity was afforded Trust Company 
to reply to the allegations of the Department and the Board has given 
careful consideration to the briefs filed on behalf of Trust Company 
and the Department. On March 19, the Board stayed its February 22 
°rder to study the issues raised. 
In its petition, the Department noted that, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act, the Board had requested from it a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the application, but had not been furnished 
^ e report within the statutorily prescribed period because of the illness 
°f certain key personnel and incomplete information concerning the 
apparently unique banking relationships existing In the relevant Georgia 
Markets, The Department urged that the Board consider certain additional 
inf 
r°rmation and arguments bearing on the relation between Trust Company 
a n d Peachtree Bank, and reconsider the competitive effects of the 
Proposal in the light thereof. 
Trust Company has urged that the Board deny the Department's 
tecUieGt on the grounds, among others, that the Department is not an 
appropriate party to request reconsideration. Without deciding that 
estion% or the question of whether the petition presents relevant 
9 c ts which, for good cause shown, were not previously presented, the 
°atcl finds it appropriate and in the public interest to vacate and 
c°nsid^r its Order of February 22, 1971 in the light of the issues 
-by t h e Dcoartment, ' 

127? 
- 5 -
In its Order approving the application, the Board indicated 
that its conclusions with respect to the competitive effects of the 
Proposal took account of the fact that Trust Company was instrumental 
organizing Peachtree Bank in 1960, and that the banks had been 
clocely associated since that time. The Department does not controvert 
those findings, but instead argues that, in attributing significance to 
them in assessing the competitive aspects of the transaction, the 
B°ard applied an incorrect standard. It states that "the mere existence 
o f a 'close relationship1 between the two merging banks should not serve 
to Please the merger from the usual competitive considerations applied 
b y the Board (or from the standards of Clayton Act § 7)." It then 
Poses the following as a test of the relevance of any relationship 
betv;een two merging banks: 
"[!/] here a metropolitan bank in reality establishes 
a new bank (rather than assisting others in establishing 
such a bank), the new bank may be in effect an ej:tension 
or branch of the existing bank. This occurs where it, 
albeit indirectly, organizes, controls, and finances the 
w bank. In such circumstances, a subsequent merger of 
be affiliated' bank into the large Atlanta bank is not 
Ucely to have competitive significance. Absent this situ-
ion of original and continuing control, however, we 
^eiieve that the new 'affiliated' bank should be considered 
n independent competitive factor and any subsequent 
oquisition or merger evaluated according to traditional 
standards." 
At the outset, it should be clear that every bank merger 
fo*e tl 
"»e Board is subject to scrutiny under the same standards, that 
8> Wiethe r its effect "in any section of the country may be substantially 

- 5 -
127? 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or . . . in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade." The existence of a 
factual situation, of whatever nature, which indicates that competition 
between two banks is not substantial and is unlikely to become such 
does not result in the application of different standards. However, 
it may lead to a different conclusion than would be reached if the 
same standards were applied to a different factual situation. A 
inclusion as to whether a particular proposal may have the effect 
°f substantially lessening competition must be based on the facts 
o f the particular case, and the Board is not authorized, much less 
Squired, to ignore facts which bear on that conclusion, A merger 
o f two banks which are not significant competitors cannot be regarded 
9 8 eHminating significant existing competition. And, similarly, if 
future competition is unlikely - even though possible - the merger 
Cannot be regarded as reasonably lilcely to lessen future competition. 
This does not mean that every proposed merger before the Board 
o f two related banks receives favorable consideration. First of all, 
c°nsideration must be given to the question of whether the relationship 
U a s anticompetitive in its origins; if so, little weight should be 
tti.ibuted to such relationship, since to do so might encourage evasion 
f 
law. Assuming, however, that the relationship was not anti-
0tnPetitive when established or fashioned so as to avoid legal restrictions, 
ts impact on competition - present and future - should be considered 

64 
- 6 -
realistically in determining whether approval of the transaction would 
in the public interest. If the effect of a relationship is to create 
and sustain cooperation, and not competition, between the banks, their 
merger cannot reasonably be said to eliminate presently existing com-
petition between them. Insofar as the future effects of the proposal 
a r e concerned, that depends on whether it might reasonably be anticipated 
that the existing inhibitions on competition might be terminated, so 
fcbat, if the banks were not merged, effective competition between the banks 
v,ould be likely. It may be that, in a very highly concentrated market, 
tion of even a relatively remote possibility of significant 
future competition would mean that approval of the transaction would 
n°t be in the public interest. But in no case does the Board consider 
it 
appropriate to regard the elimination of a remote possibility of 
future competition as being the equivalent of the elimination of a 
Reasonable probability of such competition. 
ba 
s h o u l d b e noted that Trust Company of Georgia, in addition to being a 
oth 
i G a l s ° a b a n k h o i c i i n8 company. Had it established control over an-
ner bank sufficiently firm to meet the Justice Department's proposed 
^andard, it would probably be regarded as violating the Bank Holding Company 
VjQ • In such case, the relationship between the two banks, being unlawful, 
Hot 
p r o p e r l y b e regarded as less durable than the present relationship, 
the 11101:6 S O # 
shou*-d also be stressed that, under recent amendments to 
°Ve BanIc Holding Company Act, the establishment of such control by any bank 
r another requires prior approval of the Board, 

1295 
- 6 -
Reexamination of the facts of the present case, including 
those stressed by the Department, do not persuade the Board that its 
original decision was incorrect. Trust Company was largely responsible 
f°r the founding of Peachtree Bank, has supplied it with management 
(which continues to participate in Trust Company's retirement and 
Profit-sharing plans), and has accorded it all the assistance and 
c°operation which this relationship implies. IJhile it does not control 
the bank or its policies, the relationship between them is such that 
^ey cannot realistically be regarded as significant competitors to 
e a ch other. Moreover, while Trust Company apparently does not have 
fche ability to force continuation of the relationship, the relationship 
appears to have been mutually beneficial and there is no reason to 
e*Pect that either Trust Company or Peachtree Bank would voluntarily 
df 
Continue it if their merger were to be prohibited. The latter has 
aclvised that almost 40 per cent of its IPC demand deposits are in 
a . 
counts whose size exceeds the insurance maximum, and that most of 
the 
m would likely be moved elsewhere if the relationship were terminated. 
Nor do the facts suggest that, if Peachtree Bank were to 
C° m e truly independent of Trust Company, competition would be so much 
at*ced that the preservation of the mere possibility of such occurrence 
8hou]J , 
be accorded unusual significance. Peachtree Bank, with $15 million 
p°sits, has the eighth largest share of deposits in DeKalb County 
c cent) of the 19 banks operating there. As indicated above, 

1296 
V 
- 7 -
it would likely be even smaller were its relationship with Trust 
Company to be terminated. It is doubtful that, as an independent, 
it would exert a significant competitive influence on Trust Company 
or other Atlanta banks. 
Based on these facts, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the transaction would not have a substantially adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. As to other factors required to 
be considered by the Act, the Board incorporates its findings and 
conclusions as set forth in its Order of February 22, 1971. 
On the basis of the record in this case, as supplemented 
by the petition and supporting documents filed by the Department of 
Justice and Applicant's response thereto, it is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed merger would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
May 20, 1971 

67 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
At the time the Board first considered this application, 
I voted to approve on the grounds that the facts were such that no 
significant change in banking competition in the relevant area would 
result. However, I am now convinced by the Justice Department position 
that, since the relationship between Trust Company and Peachtree Bank 
d°es not constitute actual control, the banks should be treated as in-
dependent institutions in analyzing the competitive effects of the pro-
Posal. Considering the facts in this context, I would reverse my prior 
decision and deny the application, the approval of which will permanently 
foreclose the possibility of future competition and constitute a precedent 
could lead to additional anticompetitive mergers in areas where 
c°ncentration of banking power is already great. 
Moreover, I believe denial is called for even under the method 
of analysis adopted by the majority - which is to consider all facts 
earing 
on the present and potential ability of the banks to compete, 
9 n d to weigh the possibility of disaffiliation with the benefits that 
u°uld result if the smaller bank became independent. 
Admittedly the relationship between the banks is such as to 
nhibit competition between them; however, the possibility that Peach-
tte 
e would become independent is far from remote. The record indicates 
Trust Company's initial offer was rejected by Peachtree, that the 
m 
hanks have no common officers and directors, that common stock owner-
p i s minimal, and that the two banks have pursued different commercial 
ategies. Clearly the relationship between the banks is not so strong 
0 Preclude the possibility of disaffiliation. 

1298 
wyfl 
- 2 -
Peachtree Bank is located in DeKalb County (pop. 414,000), 
That county is situated to the east of Atlanta and, as part of the 
Atlanta SMSA, is one of the fastest growing areas in the country. 
Although DeKalb County was once basically a "bedroom" suburb of Atlanta, 
the population increase has been accompanied by an even larger growth 
in the number and size of commercial and industrial firms. Banking in 
Atlanta is dominated by three banking organizations (including Trust 
Company), In Fulton County - where Atlanta is located - these three 
organizations control 73 per cent of deposits; in DeKalb County they 
control 53 per cent of deposits. Additionally, the three Atlanta banks 
§ 
have relationships with 12 banks in DeKalb County (including Peachtree), 
\ ... 
' 
, A 
^ich, in the aggregate, control 28 per cent of that county's deposits, 
I f mergers involving those 12 banks and their "affiliated" institutions 
kit-' •'! 
' ' 
*'ere to be consummated, the three large Atlanta banks would control 
ft- 
< j; 
1 Per cent of the DeKalb County deposits, and 76 per cent of the 
• 
eP°sits in the two-county area. 
/V.:-:/;' 
. . - ^ d z j >voU«>u IH(K)' <: 
$ 
In my judgment, these "affiliated" banks represent a source 
of 
competition for the three Atlanta banks. By approving the present 
application. 
the Board has permitted Trust Company to increase its share 
0 f °eKalb County deposits from 14 to 20 per cent, and has adopted a policy 
4 removing potential sources of deconcentration for the Atlanta area, 
ii? 
For these reasons, I would deny the application and preserve 
the 
realistic possibility that Peachtree might become independent, 
20, 1 9 7 1 

1299 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
' \:V» • • ' : / * • 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No . 12 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
5/20/71 
May 21, 1971 
o 
• f'ML 
' • 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs • 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
Under section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, a Federal 
Reserve Bank may extend credit for periods not exceeding 90 days 
to its member banks on their promissory notes secured by obliga-
tions eligible for discount or purchase by the Reserve Banks. 
Such credit is typically secured by obligations of, and 
obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the 
United States cr any agency thereof. Those obligations, plus cable 
transfers, bank acceptances, bills of exchange, and certain municipal 
warrants are obligations eligible for purchase by Reserve Banks. 
Obligations eligible for discounting by the Reserve Banks are limited 
to notes issued or drawn for agricultural, industrial, or commercial 
purposes, with a maturity at the time of discount of not more than 
days. Under section 14, the Reserve Banks establish what are 
described as the "basic" rates of interest on credit to member banks 
under section 13. 
Under section 10(b) of the Act, a Reserve Bank may extend 
credit for periods not. exceeding four months to its member banks on 
their promissory notes secured to the satisfaction of the Reserve 
Sank. The law presently requires that the rate of interest on such 
fin advance must be at least one-half per cent higher than the highest 
basic rate in effect at the lending Reserve Bank. 
For several years the Board of Governors lias recommended 
legislation that would permit member banks to borrow from the Reserve 
Banks on security of any sound assets without paying such a "penalty" 
rate of interest whenever technically ineligible paper is presented. 
The Board believes that the need for enactment of such 
legislation has increased as member banks have reduced Lheir holdings 
Government securities and broadened the scope of their lending in 
°rder to meet the expanding credit demands of their customers. Many 
these loans cannot qualify as security for Federal Reserve advances 
except at the "penalty" rate of interest, although their quality may 
equal to that of presently "eligible" paper. 

1300 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
The Board has firmly and unanimously favored authorizing 
the Reserve Banks to extend credit to member banks on sound collat-
eral without regard to the present "eligibility" provisions. It 
again urges such legislation to avoid penalizing those uses of 
credit that generate sound paper that is not "eligible" under 
existing law. 
Such paper would include, for example, home mortgages and 
municipal obligations that meet the test of soundness. The Board 
could by regulation prescribe limitations on the maturity of the 
paper offered as collateral. However, presumably all FHA and VA 
guaranteed loans would become eligible as collateral for advances. 
We hope that making such obligations eligible for advances at the 
same rate, as other obligations would tend to encourage member banks 
to .increase their portfolio of such obligations. 
Unlike drafts submitted previously, which would have made 
extensive revisions in the Federal Reserve Act, the attached draft 
bill would accomplish our recommendation in a very simple manner. 
It would repeal the last sentence of section 10(b) of the Act, which 
presently requires imposition of the "penalty" rate of interest on 
paper that does not meet the "eligibility" requirements of section 13. 
The Board urges your early and favorable consideration of 
this bill. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enc]osure 

1301 
A 
B I L L 
To enable the Federal Reserve banks to extend credit to member 
banks on any sound collateral at a uniform rate of interest. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatlves 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the 
last sentence of section 10(b) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
347b) is repealed. 

1302 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL. R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
May 21, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends legislation (1) to authorize 
a more flexible system of graduated reserve requirements, (2) to apply 
Such requirements to the demand deposits of all depositary institutions 
that accept deposits subject to withdrawal by check, and (3) to authorize 
the. Reserve Banks to extend credit to such institutions on the sains 
hcisls as they extend credit to member banks. 
Since 1964 the Board has recommended that the Congress extend 
Federal Reserve reserve requirements to all federally insured banks. In 
this connection I would like to bring to your attention the following 
°bservations based on the enclosed data: 
(1) The rate of growth in deposits in nonmember banks 
has consistently exceeded the rate of growth in deposits 
in member banks during the last decade. 
(2) Nonmember bank deposits now constitute approxi-
mately 18 per cent of the money supply. 
(3; Within the money supply total, the nonmember bank 
component has regularly responded Jess and more slowly to 
monetary restraint than has the member bank deposit compo-
nent; in fact:, in the years (1966 and 1969) when the 
Federal Preserve was trying hardest for monetary restraint, 
nonmember banks added more to the money supply than did 
member banks. 
The Board believes that, rationally and equitably, all of 
r
 c nation's institutions that offer checking deposits should be 
-f|uired to maintain reserves against those deposits in the same: 
°unt and form that are applicable to member banks. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
73 
Otherwise, if present trends continue, reserve requirement 
changes as a tool of monetary policy will, sooner or later, become 
practically ineffective. Even now, the incentive to avoid reserve 
requirement costs by shifting to a nonmeraber status is a factor that 
the Federal Reserve must reckon with in considering any increase in 
reserve requirements to achieve stability goals. 
Because of economies of scale in banking, the application 
of reserve requirements to deposits in small institutions is more 
onerous than the application of those requirements to deposits in 
large institutions. Accordingly, in applying reserve requirements 
to small institutions, whether member or nonmember banks or other 
nonmember depositary institutions, the Congress might consider it 
appropriate to establish graduated reserve ratios for demand deposits. 
By authorizing the imposition of lower reserve ratios againsu some or 
all of such deposits (say, the first $5 or $100 million), the Board 
would be able to develop a rational and equitable reserve requirement 
system consistent with the effective implementation of monetary policy 
As in the past in recommending extension of Federal Reserve 
reserve requirements to nonmember banks, the Board believes that all 
institutions subject to such requirments should have access to 
Federal Reserve credit facilities on the same basis as member banks. 
A draft bill based on the foregoing considerations is 
enclosed. The Board urges its introduction and enactment. 
Sincerely yours, 
u 
Enclosures 

74 
TABLE 1 
Dollar Changes in Money Supply Components as a Per Cent 
of the Dollar Changes in Total Money Supply 1960-1970^' 
Period 
Member bank 
demand deposits 
Nonmembcr bank 
demand deposits 
, 2/ 
n. d. 
Currency 
and coin 
^ 2/ 
n f d 
1960 
150.0 
Nonmembcr bank 
demand deposits 
, 2/ 
n. d. 
Currency 
and coin 
^ 2/ 
n f d 
1961 
67.4 
19.6 
13,0 
1962 
9.1 
45.5 
45.5 
1963 
39.3 
26.G 
33.9 
1964 
51.4 
23.0 
25.7 
1965 
44.9 
28.2 
26.9 
1966 
21.1 
26.3 
52.6 
1967 
63.2 
18.8 
40.6 
1968 
55.4 
23.6 
20.9 
1969 
15.6 
43.G 
40.6 
1970 
55.3 
16.G 
27.4 
1/ Based on December to December dollar changes not 
seasonally adjusted for each component. 
2/ Not definable. 

TABLE 2 
1305 
Components as a Percentage of Total Honey 
Supply ~ 1960-19701/ 
Last-month- 
Member bank 
Nonmember bank 
Currency 
of-year 
demand deposits 
demand deposits 
and coin 
1960 
65.4 
14.3 
20.3 
il 
1961 
65.4 
14.5 
20.1 
H 
-1 
1962 
64.6 
14.9 
20.5 
1963 
63.7 
* » • 
15.3 
21.0 
• 
|| 
•J 
1964 
63.2 
• <,».» 
-j „ if 
15.7 
21.2 
jfi 
4 
1965 
62.3 
16.2 
21.4 
k -1 
1 
1966 
61.4 
16.4 
22.1 
1 
jfr 
1967 
61.6 
16.6 
21.8 
si 
1960 
61.1 
17,1 
21.8 
H 
1969 
59.7 
17.9 
22.4 
tj 
1970 
59.5 
17.9 
22. * 6 
10 
i If 
i<] 
'h 
A 
Based on lant-month-of-year not seasonally adjusted data. 
i 1
' .1

1306 
TABLE 3 
Per Cent Annual Rate of Change in Components 
of the Honey Supply ~ 1960-1970J/ 
Period 
Total 
Member bank 
Money Supply 
demand denosits 
Wonmeraber bank 
demand deposits 
1.5 
Currency 
and coin 
1960 
~0.5 
-1.2 
Wonmeraber bank 
demand deposits 
1.5 
0.4 
1961 
3.2 
3.3 
4.3 
2.0 
1962 
1.5 
0.2 
4.6 
3.3 
1963 
3.7 
2.2 
6.6 
6 a 
1SC4 
4.7 
3.8 
7.0 
5.7 
1965 
4.7 
3.4 
8.5 
6.0 
1966 
2,2 
0.7 
3.6 
5.4 
] 967 
6.6 
6.3 
7.6 
5.4 
1968 
7.8 
7.1 
11.2 
7.5 
1969 
3.1 
0.8 
8.0 
5.9 
1970 
5.4 
5.0 
5.1 
6.6 
i./ December to December changes based on 
data for each component. 
not seasonally adjusted 

1307 
A 
G I L L 
To extend Federal Reserve reserve requirements to all checking 
accounts and to make Federal Reserve credit equally available 
to all institutions subject to those requirements. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America In Congress assembled, That section 
19 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 374, 461, 464, and 465) is 
amended in the following respects: 
(a) by adding at the end of subsection (a): "For the 
purposes of this section, the term 'depositary institution' 
means any institution organized under the laws of the United 
States, a State, the District of Columbia, any territory of 
the United States, Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, or the 
Virgin Islands that engages to any extent in the business of 
receiving deposits subject to withdrawal by check, excepi 
any organization operating under section 25 or section 25(a) 
of this Act or any organization that does not do business 
within the United States except as an incident to its 
activities outside the United States." 
(b) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows: 
"(b)(1) Every depositary institution shall maintain 
reserves against its demand deposits in such ratios and accord-
ing to such reasonable basis or bases as shall be determined 
by the Board subject to the following1: 

(i) The average required reserve ratio for 
aggregate deposits not exceeding $5,000,000 shall 
be not less than 7 per centum nor more than 14 per 
centum; 
(ii) The average required reserve ratio or 
ratios for aggregate deposits exceeding $5,000,000 
and not exceeding $100,000,000 shall be not less 
than 8 per centum nor more than 20 per centum; 
(iii) The average required reserve ratio or 
ratios for aggregate deposits exceeding $100,000,000 
shall be not less than 10 per centum nor more than 
22 per centum. 
(j.v) The $5,000,000 figure may be increased by 
the Board to not more than $10,000,000 or decreased 
to not less than $2,500,000, and the $100,000,000 
figure may be increased to not more than $500,000,000 
or decreased to not less than $50,000,000. 
"(2) Every member bank shall maintain reserves against 
its deposits other than demand deposits in such ratios and 
according to such reasonable basis or bases as shall be 
determined by the Board, except that the average required 
reserve ratio or ratios for such deposits shall be. not less 
than 3 per centum nor more than 10 per centum. 

- 3 - 
1 3 0 9 
"(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing limitations, 
the Eoard may prescribe any reserve ratio with respect to 
any indebtedness of an office of a depositary institution in 
any State of the United States or the District of Columbia 
that arises out of a transaction in the ordinary course of 
its banking business with respect to either .funds received 
from or credit extended by such institution to an office 
outside the States or District of Columbia of a bank organized 
under the law of a foreign country or a dependency or insular 
possession of the United States, except that the average 
required reserve ratio or ratios applicable to such indebt-
edness shall not at any time exceed 22 per centum. 
"(4) Every depositary institution subject to this 
subsection shall make reports concerning its required reserves 
to the Board at such time and in such form as the Board may 
require, in the event that the Board determines that a 
depositary institution has violated any provision of this 
section applicable to it, in addition to the penalties that 
may be authorized by other provisions of law, such institution 
shall be subject to a penalty not exceeding $1,000 per day for 
each day during which such violation continues. 
Such penalty 
may be assessed by the Board in its discretion and, when so 
assessed, may be collected by suit or otherwise by the Federal 
Reserve bank of the district in which such depositary institu-
tion is located. Whenever it. shall appear to the Board that 

- 
It 
-
1310 
a depositary institution has willfully violated the provisions 
of this section regarding required reserves or reports with 
respect thereto, the Board, after having warned the institution 
to discontinue such violations, may report such facts to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Savings and 
Loan Insurance Corporation, or any State authority that insures 
the institution's deposits, which shall immediately commence 
proceedings to terminate the status of the institution as an 
insured institution. 
(c) in subsection (c) by changing (1) "member bank" to 
read "depositary institution subject to subsection (b) of this 
section" and (2) "of which it is a member" to read "of the 
Federal Reserve district in which its head office is located". 
(d) in subsections (J:) and (g) by changing wherever they 
appear therein (1) "member bank" to read "depositary institution 
subject to subsection (b) of this section" and (2) "member banks" 
to read "depositary institutions subject to subsection (b) of 
this section". 
SEC. 2. Section 11(e) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
248(e)) is repealed. 
SEC. 3. Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act is amended by 
adding at the end thereof the following paragraph: 
"Each Federal Reserve bank may discount paper for, and 
make advances to, any depositary institution in its district 

1311 
- 5 -
whose deposits are subject to the provisions of this Act 
regarding reserves, to the same extent and subject to the 
same limitations as such Federal Reserve bank may discount 
paper for, and make advances to member banks under the 
provisions of this Act." 

82 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
May 21, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends legislation to encourage 
member banks to participate in the improvement of their communities. 
As leading members of their communities, banks are expected to parti-
cipate in community programs. In some cases this responsibility can 
be fulfilled by contributing funds or services. In others, the appro-
priate form of participation is an investment in stock of a corporation 
established for a particular purpose. 
An example of the kind of investment the Board has in mind 
would be in a corporation to promote the economic, rehabilitation and 
development of low-income areas. The Congress has specifically provided 
for some participation by banks in corporations for this purpose. The 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 amended section 5136 of the 
Revised Statutes to authorize member banks to purchase stock in community 
development corporations established pursuant to Title IX of that Act. 
The Congress lias also enacted legislation that serves as a 
asis for bank supervisory agencies to permit member banks to partici-
pate in community improvement by indirect means. For example, under 
the recent amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act the Board is 
authorized to permit a holding company to engage in activities that 
a^e so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. 
onununity improvement is one of several activities the Board has 
decided meets that test. 
Some banks, however, prefer to participate in community 
°Srams directly rather than through a collateral affiliate in a 
ding company. Some prefer to participate through investments in 
rPorations established pursuant to provisions of State laws enacted 
Pecially for the purpose of promoting community development. Some 
or to use their initiative and establish the type of corporation 
Gy believe will best serve the particular needs of their community. 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
1313 
In view of the strong public interest supporting partici-
pation by banks in aiding their communities achieve our national goals, 
the Board recommends that the Congress enact legislation specifically 
authorizing national banks to invest in community corporations, whether 
chartered or sponsored by the federal or state government and whether 
or not pursuant to a particular statute dealing with community develop-
ment. 
Such legislation would not itself authorize state member 
banks to invest in community corporations, because the corporate power 
of a state-chartered bank is a matter of state law. Nonetheless, it 
would encourage investments by banks in those states that do not pro-
hibit banks from making such investments. It should also encourage 
states that do prohibit such investments to reexamine their position. 
To assure that such investments do not adversely affect the 
soundness of the individual institution, the Comptroller of the Currency, 
as to national banks, and the Board of Governors, as to state member 
banks, should be authorized to impose limitations on the nature and 
scope of such investments. 
A draft bill for this purpose is enclosed. The Board urges 
its introduction and enactment. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

1311 
A 
B I L L 
To encourage member banks of the Federal Reserve System to Invest 
in community corporations. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 
5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24) is amended by adding 
at the end thereof the following: 
"Tenth. To acquire shares of one or more corporations 
engaged solely in promoting community welfare, such as the 
economic rehabilitation and development of low-income areas: 
Provided, That in no event shall a bank's aggregate invest-
ment in such shares exceed 2 per centum of its capital stock 
and surplus. Every investment pursuant to this paragraph 
shall be subject to such definitions, requirements, and 
restrictions as may be prescribed in regulations or orders 
issued by the Comptroller of the Currency in the case of 
national banks, or by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System in the case of State member banks." 

•^fSgffP-T-' 
1315 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
May 21, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In some areas of the United States, many of the commercial 
banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve System make charges 
the payment of checks drawn on themselves when the checks are 
Presented by mail. These charges are generally known as "exchange 
charges" and the banks that impose such charges are referred to as 
'nonpar banks" because they do not pay at par, that is, at face 
value, all checks drawn on them. 
Deposits in checking accounts constitute the bulk of our 
country's money supply. The efficient operation of our economic 
machine requires that checks, like currency, be interchangeable at 
their face value. Present provisions of the Federal Reserve Act 
^Pressly prohibit the making of exchange charges against the Federal 
Reserve Banks and, as a practical matter, all checks drawn on member 
banks and collected through the Federal Reserve collection system are 
Paid at par. Whatever reasons may have once existed for the making of 
exchange charges, it is the Board's opinion that, under today's highly 
developed system of check collection, there is no sound reason for any 
b a nk, whether member or nonmember, to pay less than the face amount of 
°becks drawn upon it. Any expense that a bank incurs in the payment of 
eJtecks should be absorbed by the bank or borne by its customers—the 
|fPositors who drew the checks—rather than by the payees or indorsees, 
fts is the practice followed today by most banks. 
It is obvious that nonpar banking involves inequities. For 
^ampi e j a seller of goods or services who is willing to accept checks 
Payment may receive less than the price agreed upon if the purchaser 
ra*s his check on a nonpar bank. On the other hand, he may receive 
*»g 

±316 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
full payment even if the check is drawn on a nonpar bank, because some 
such banks follow a discriminatory practice of "parring" items only for 
certain persons. In any event, as long as banks are permitted to impose 
exchange charges, a seller cannot be certain that he will receive full 
Payment for checks that he accepts for his goods or services. 
In addition to such inequities, nonpar banking involves 
unjustified costs and inefficiencies. For example, where a collecting 
bank presents a check to a drawee nonpar bank and pays an exchange 
charge and the charge is passed back through other collecting banks to 
the payee's bank and ultimately to the payee, each of the banks as well 
as the payee must make appropriate reversing entries in its books to 
take account of the fact that the item was not paid at its face amount. 
The unjustified costs and inefficiencies of nonpar banking 
often take a somewhat different form. Some banks are willing to "absorb 
exchange charges on checks cleared through them in return for the main-
tenance of a minimum deposit by the forwarding bank. To pass a check 
through such a bank frequently involves circuitous routing, perhaps to 
Places quite distant from the drawee bank, thereby unnecessarily delay-
ing the time of payment of the check. 
While nonpar banks today obtain substantial income from charg-
exchange, banks that have shifted from a nonpar to a par status have 
been able to operate profitably through the substitution of an appropri-
ate system of service charges levied against their depositors for the 
e*pense of handling transactions in their accounts. Thus, while the 
elimination of exchange charges will greatly facilitate the efficient 
°Peration of our nation's banking system, the loss of exchange income 
should not be detrimental to individual banks. 
For the reasons indicated above, the Board, beginning in its 
Annual Report to the Congress for 1965, has annually recommended enactment 
of legislation that would require all insured banks to pay checks drawn on 
them at par, that is, without deduction of exchange charges. 
The trend of legislation in this area at the State level has 
e en toward requiring banks to pay the face amount of checks drawn upon 
them. i n recent years, Georgia, Florida, Minnesota, Mississippi, Missouri, 
°rth Dakota, South Dakota, and Tennessee have enacted legislation along 
these lines. However, nonpar banks still exist in Alabama, Arkansas, 
l°uisiana, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas. 

±87 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
Accordingly, despite the progress in the direction of par clear-
ance that has been made at the State level, the Board continues to favor 
enactment by the Congress of a requirement that all insured banks pay at 
par all checks drawn on them. In order to afford nonpar banks a reasonable 
time within which to adjust their practices, it is recommended that such 
legislation be made effective one year after the date of its enactment. 
A draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

A 
B I L L 
To require all insured banks to clear checks at par. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 18 of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828) is amended by adding the 
following subsection: 
"(k) No insured bank shall pay any check drawn on it at 
less than its face amount or make any charge, by exchange or 
otherwise, against a person in his capacity as payee or 
indorsee for the payment of such checks and remission of the 
proceeds thereof. For each violation of this subsection, the 
offending bank shall be subject to a penalty of not more than 
$100, which the Corporation may recover for its use." 
SEC. 2. The first paragraph of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 342) is amended by striking ": Provided 
-farther, That nothing in this or any other section of this Act shall 
be construed as prohibiting a member or nonmember bank from making 
reasonable charges, to be determined and regulated by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, but in no case to exceed 
cents per $100 or fraction thereof, based on the total of checks 
and drafts presented at any one time, for collection or payment of 
checks and drafts and remission therefor by exchange or otherwise; 
no such charges shall be made against the Federal reserve banks". 
SEC. 3. The amendments made by this Act shall become 
effective one year after the date of the enactment of this Act. 

1319 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
May 21, 1971 
w 
i'v'i 
e < v 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
°ear Mr. Chairman: 
Since February 1962, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has 
engaged in foreign currency operations on behalf of the System Open 
Market Account and under directions of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
These operations have been encouragingly successful in accomplishing 
their basic purposes, and have thus helped to safeguard the value of the 
dollar in international exchange markets. 
These operations have been implemented in part by the establish-
ment of reciprocal credit balances or "swap" arrangements between the 
New York Reserve Bank and foreign central banks. The authorization for 
Astern 
foreign currency operations adopted by the Federal Open Market 
Committee requires that foreign currency holdings in excess of minimum 
irking 
balances be invested insofar as practicable, and that such invest-
ments be in accordance with the provisions of section 14(e) of the Federal 
reserve Act. 
Under section 14(e), idle amounts held by the Reserve Bank in 
account with a foreign bank may be invested in bills of exchange and 
acceptances that arise out of actual commercial transactions and have 
Maturities 
of not more than 90 days, or they may be placed in an interest-
earing time account with the same or some other foreign bank. However, 
l n certain instances there has been a scarcity of such paper for invest-
m e nt, time deposit facilities have not always been conveniently available, 
, under present law, such idle funds could not be invested in obliga-
lons of foreign governments, such as foreign treasury bills. On the other 
and> a foreign central bank having a balance or reciprocal credit or "swap" 
-^tangement with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York may invest idle funds 
its 
account with the Reserve Bank in interest-bearing United States 
C r i t i c s . 

±1320 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
X 
vJ * 1 f ^ ^ ' ** * * ' ' * "* 14 f^ " 
^ f ' • ' * ' ' 
J ' -i , 
} * 
'r* 
«• • 
The disadvantage in this respect under which the Reserve Bank 
must operate would be remedied by an amendment to section 14(e) of the 
Federal Reserve Act that would specifically authorize Federal Reserve Banks 
to buy and sell securities with maturities not exceeding 12 months that are 
issued or guaranteed by foreign governments. 
^fc * tl * ) * ^ . , / ' * ^ » , 
ITT 
'-Tne Board recommends the enactment -o'f such an amendment to ttie 
law. A suggested draft of a bill for this purpose is enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
: J ' 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

1321 
A B 
L L 
To enable Federal Reserve banks to invest in certain obligations of 
foreign governments. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That section 14(e) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 358) is amended to read as follows: 
"(e)(1) With the approval or upon the direction of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and subject 
to such regulations as the Board may prescribe: 
"(A) to establish and maintain accounts in 
foreign countries and to appoint correspondents and 
establish agencies in such countries: 
"(B) to buy and sell through such correspondents 
or agencies (i) bills of exchange and acceptances 
arising out of actual commercial transactions that 
have not more than ninety days to run, exclusive of 
days of grace, and that bear the signatures of two 
or more responsible parties, and (ii) any securities 
that are direct obligations of, or fully guaranteed 
as to principal and interest by, any foreign govern-
ment or monetary authority and that have maturities 
from date of purchase of not exceeding twelve months 
and are denominated payable in any convertible cur-
rency; and 

i 
j 
1322 
"(C) to establish and maintain accounts for such 
I . 
foreign correspondents or agencies, for foreign banks 
I •' •; 
or bankers, or for foreign states as defined in sec-
tion 25(b) of this Act. 
"(2) Whenever any Federal Reserve bank establishes an 
account or agency or appoints a correspondent pursuant to 
this section, any other Reserve bank, with the approval of 
the Board, may be permitted to conduct, through the Reserve 
bank establishing such account or agency or appointing such 
correspondent, any transaction authorized by this section, 
subject to such regulations as the Board may prescribe." 

93 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
May 21, 1971 
The Honorable John Sparkman, Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
The Board of Governors recommends repeal of the dollar 
limitation on the cost for construction of Federal Reserve bank 
branch buildings. 
Under section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act, the aggregate 
costs incurred by the Reserve Banks for the construction of branch 
buildings after July 30, 1947, is limited to $60 million. This 
amount has been almost fully utilized, and the remaining amount will 
be sufficient to permit construction of only a relatively small pro-
portion of the facilities for which we now see a need. 
Repeal of the limitation would not mean that the Reserve 
Banks could construct whatever branch buildings they consider appro-
priate. Under the third paragraph of section 3 of the Act the Reserve 
Banks would still need the Board's approval of their branch building 
programs. The Board would continue to consider the proposed construc-
tion or improvement in the light of the needs of the branch, the type 
of proposed construction, the reasonableness of the costs, and whether 
the construction is generally in keeping with the prevailing economic 
situation. 
Repeal of the limitation would mean that the Federal Reserve 
System would be in a position to continue to provide increases in 
services that are necessary to keep the System responsive to the needs 
of the public. As our population grows and shifts it is necessary to 
increase the quantity and quality of our services and in some 'cases 
shift the performance of some functions from one locality to another. 
While technological improvements in the method of handling many 
Federal Reserve operations have helped to stem the need for additional 
space, volume increases have more than offset the savings. 

1324 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
Some idea of the growth in the workload of Reserve bank 
branches is indicated by the volume increases in the following 
activities from 1959 through 1969: 
Currency operations: Increased from 1.5 billion 
items to 2.1 billion items, or 39 per cent. 
Coin operations: Increased from 3 billion items 
to 5.2 billion items, or 74 per cent. 
Check collections: Increased from 1.4 billion 
items to 2.7 billion items, or 89 per cent. 
The Board would be glad to furnish you with more detailed 
information concerning the operations of the Reserve bank branches 
and the recent and planned costs for construction of such facilities, 
either in conjunction with a hearing on the enclosed draft bill or 
at such other time as you may consider more appropriate. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

A 
B I L L 
To eliminate the dollar limitation on the cost for construction 
of Federal Reserve hank branch buildings. 
Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives 
of the United States of America in Congress assembled, That the 
ninth paragraph of section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
522) is repealed. 

1326 
B D A R D • F* G O V E R N O R S 
. :ovVoV,y. 
nr T H E 
Item No. 13 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5/20/71 
t "St > 1 A: 
V i ; * ) • 
K^rrfifi^/sr 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D O R E B B OFriCIAL C D R O E B P O N C E N r i 
^ 
• 
TO T H E UtJAHD 
May 26, 1971 
Mr. David C. Melnicoff 
First Vice President: 
federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Do ar Mr. Melnicoff: 
The Board of Governors apologizes for its oversight in replying to 
Vour letter of August 17, 1970, in which you requested Board approval to: 
increase retroactive to July 1967 and January 1970 the Bank's supplemental 
*etircment payment to retired President Alfred H. Williams, and 
(2) further 
the existing contract entered into by your Beard of Directors and 
4'r« Williams to provide future periodic adjustments in the Bank's supplemental 
ctire.raent payments to him. 
Upon receipt of your letter of April 29, 1971, the Board carefully 
c°nsidered your request and concluded that it would be inappropriate to ap-
prove either an increase in the Bank's supplemental retirement payment to 
Williams or a revision in the existing contract between Mr. Williams and 
Philadelphia Reserve Bank. The Board's decision was based on the following 
c°nsiderations: 
1. The purpose of these Agreements is to assist in recruiting 
short service Presidents who could not earn a career-
service pension. From the standpoint of the Federal Reserve 
System one of these contracts will have served its purpose 
when a person has agreed to accept the presidency of a Reserve 
Bank. Therefore, since the Agreements do not provide for 
increasing payments after the President has entered retire-
ment, and since the S y s t em w ould not benefit from such 
increases, it would be difficult legally and otherwise to 
justify upward revisions. 
2. A retired President's pension from the Retirement System 
may, of course, be increased along with general supplements 
to pensions of other retirees, and in fact since Mr. Williams' 

97 
Mr. David C. Melnicoff 
• 
-2-
retirement in 1958, his pension has been increased about 32.5 
per cent in three adjustments (July 1967, January 1970, and 
January 1971). 
3. The supplemental retirement payments by the Reserve Banks 
are not reduced when pensions are, increased from the Retire-
ment System even though the combined pension and contract 
payments thereafter exceed the amount provided for at the time 
the President retired. 
4. If an increase such as your Bank proposes were to be approved, 
revisions would have to be made in the formula for and con-
ditions of all existing similar Agreements, if the System 
were to maintain equity among Reserve Banks. While this 
might not be an insurmountable hurdle, no entirely satis-
factory and equitable basis for such adjustments has occurred 
to the Board. 
' 
Because of the possible interest of other Reserve Banks, the Board's 
on this subject are being transmitted to the Chairmen and Presidents of 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
Yours sincerely, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 

Wk: 
m
m
-
' 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
nr t h e 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
s-2163 
WASH INGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D M H S S Q F r i C I AL e n w ^ E S P O N Q E N C E 
T(] T H E (JDAHO 
May 26, 1971 
The Board of Governors recently considered the first 
request from a Federal Reserve Bank to increase the Bank's payment 
of a supplemental allowance to a retired President above the amount 
provided for under the Agreement that was in effect between the Bank 
and the President at the time he retired. The Board disapproved this 
request for the following reasons: 
1. The purpose of these Agreements is to assist in recruiting 
short service Presidents who could not earn a career-service 
pension. From the standpoint of the Federal. Reserve System 
one of these contracts will have served its purpose when a 
person lias agreed to accept the presidency of a Reserve Bank. 
Therefore, since the Agreements do not provide for increasing 
payments after the President has entered retirement, and since 
the System would not benefit from such increases, it would be 
difficult legally and otherwise to justify upward revisions. 
2. A retired President's pension from the Retirement System may, 
of course, be increased along with general supplements to 
pensions of other retirees. As a matter of fact, substantial 
supplements to pensions of Federal Reserve retirees as a whole 
have been provided in the past few years, including those of 
retired Presidents. 
3. The supplemental retirement payments by the Reserve Banks are 
not reduced when pensions are increased from the Retirement; 
System even though the combined pension and contract payments 
thereafter exceed the amount provided for at the time the 
President retired. 

1329 
-2-
4. If an increase such as that proposed were to be approved, 
revisions would have to be made in the formula for and 
conditions of all existing similar Agreements, if the System 
were to maintain equity among Reserve Banks. While this 
might not be an insurmountable hurdle, no entirely satis-
factory and equitable basis for such adjustments has 
occurred to the Board. 
The Board asked that its views regarding this subject be 
transmitted to the Chairmen and Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
in order that they may understand the reasons for its conclusion that 
payments to be made under a supplemental retirement allowance Agreement 
should be strictly in accordance with the conditions stated in the 
Agreement as in effect at the time of retirement. 
Yours sincerely, 
1 
Kooert u. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 
TO THE CHAIRMEN AND PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
