Minutes for April 4, 1969. 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of minutes commencing 
on the page and dealing with the subject referred to below: 
Page 2 Amendment to Regulation A, Advances and 
Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, it 
will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Other-
wise, please initial below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, 
your initials will indicate only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 S 0 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 4, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Williams, Eckert, 
Keir, Baker, Beck, Burns, Ettin, Fry, 
Kelty, and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, 
Gemmill, Bradshaw, and Gekker, and 
Mrs. Junz of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports by Mr. Kelty on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry 
on bank credit, and by Mr. Bradshaw on the foreign exchange and gold 
markets. Copies of the documentation prepared for the purpose of 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Winkler of the Office 
of the Secretary 

1205 
4/4/69 
-4-
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, Partee, Axilrod, and Reynolds then withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Dahl, Goodfellow, and Lanier of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Application of Continental International Finance Corporation. 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated March 24, 1969, pertinent to the application 
of Continental International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
for permission to acquire the shares of Continental International 
Finance S.A., to be formed in Luxembourg. 
Consideration of the matter was deferred at the suggestion of 
Governor Robertson to permit further study of implications of the 
proposed transaction. 
Amendment to Regulation A (Items 1 and 2). There had been 
distributed memoranda from the Legal Division dated February 7 and 
March 25, 1969, regarding the eligibility of Commodity Credit Corpo-
ration certificates of interest as collateral for Reserve Bank advances. 
It was recommended that Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal 
Reserve Banks, be amended to delete specific reference to such certif-
icates in section 201.2(a) and that such certificates be added as a 
new category in the Board's 1968 interpretation on Federal agency securi-
ties. 

4/4/69 
-3-
Mr. Doyle commented that since it had been ascertained that 
the certificates of interest were "fully guaranteed" by Commodity 
Credit Corporation the Legal Division felt that in the interest of 
clarity and consistency the certificates should be treated the same 
as any other Federal agency obligation having the same characteristics 
and that Regulation A should be amended accordingly. The New York 
Reserve Bank had raised some objection to this procedure, mainly on 
the basis that a technical amendment to the Regulation and to the 
Board's Federal agency interpretation at this time might be confusing 
to member banks since the Regulation presumably would soon be revised 
as a result of the discount study. 
The ensuing discussion focused on whether to amend the 
Regulation or to defer such action and perhaps in the meantime send 
a letter to the Reserve Banks clarifying the status of the certificates 
of interest. Mr. Holland reported that none of the other discount 
officers appeared to share the qualms of the New York Bank, and 
Mr. Doyle noted that the CCC apparently would prefer the regulatory 
amendment. It developed to be the consensus that the better procedure 
would be to amend the Regulation. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the proposed 
amendment to Regulation A, effective April 4, 1969. A copy of the 
amendment in the form transmitted to the Federal Register is attached 
a s Item No. 1. A copy of the amendment to the 1968 interpretation is 
attached as Item No. 2. 

1207 
4/4/69 
-4-
Citizens Bank & Trust Company matter (Item No. 3). For reasons 
stated in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated March 25, 1969, 
unanimous approval was given to a letter to Citizens Bank & Trust Company, 
Park Ridge, Illinois, requesting the bank to eliminate certain mislead-
ing interest rate statements from its advertisements and to notify the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago of the action taken in this regard. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Foreign credit restraint guidelines. Governor Brimmer reported, 
with regard to the Government's balance of payments modification program, 
that it had been his understanding that the announcement would not be 
released until 3:00 p.m. today. However, he had just received word 
that an announcement had been made by the President this morning. The 
Treasury had scheduled a press briefing at noon today with Under 
Secretary of the Treasury Volcker scheduled to discuss the program, 
and he (Governor Brimmer) had been invited to attend the briefing to 
answer questions on the changes in the Federal Reserve program. Mr. Molony 
was prepared to issue the Board's statement at noon, in the form pre-
viously agreed upon by the Board. 
Meeting of Treasury consultants. Governor Mitchell and Mr. Brill, 
who had attended yesterday's meeting of the Treasury's academic con-
sultants, summarized the highlights of that meeting. During a discus-
sion based on their comments, it was noted, among other things, that 
the meeting had been attended by Mr. Holmes, Manager of the System Open 

4/4/69 
-3-
Market Account, and Mr. Andersen, Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis, who was currently working with the Council of Economic 
Advisers on a part-time basis. Governor Brimmer reported that it had 
come to his attention that there might be some inclination to try to 
make the meetings of the Treasury consultants a forum for debate of 
open market policy, with Federal Reserve participation, and he urged 
that the System resist such a tactic. It was noted in this connection 
that the Secretary of the Treasury had written to Chairman Martin 
requesting that Mr. Axilrod appear at a forthcoming consultants' meeting 
at which the so-called even keel policy was to be discussed and that 
consent had been given. 
briefly on the meeting of economists and central bank-finance ministry 
officials held last week in Lugano, Switzerland. On this occasion, in 
contrast with the past, he felt that the discussions were not particularly 
productive. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
International economists meeting. Governor Daane reported 
Secretary 

1209 
Item No. 1 
4/4/69 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. A] 
PART 201 - ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
1. Effective immediately § 201.2(a) is hereby amended to 
read as follows: 
§ 201.2 Advances to member banks 
(a) Advances on obligations or eligible paper. Reserve 
Banks may make advances to member banks for not more than 90 days if 
secured by obligations or other paper eligible under the Federal 
Reserve Act for discount or purchase by Reserve Banks. 
* * * * 
* 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delete the 
unnecessary reference in § 201.2(a) to Commodity Credit Corporation 
certificates of interest, which are now designated as eligible 
collateral for Reserve Bank advances in § 201.108(b)(15) without 
regard to the maturities of loans in the pool in which such certificates 
represent an interest. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United 
States Code, relating to notice and public procedure and to deferred 
effective date with respect to changes in substantive rules were not 

-2-
1210 
followed in connection with this amendment because the Board found 
that such actions would result in delays that would have consequences 
contrary to the national interest. 
, 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 4th day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Assistant Secretary. 

1211 
Item No. 
1 
4/4/69 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. A] 
PART 201 - ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Obligations Eligible as Collateral for Advances 
The following subparagraph (15) is hereby added to 
§ 201.108(b): 
(15) Commodity Credit Corporation certificates of interest 
in a price-support loan pool. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 347) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 4th day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

./jl 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/4/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 7, 1969. 
Mr. Roderick MacArthur, 
Citi zens Bank & Trust Company, 
One Northwest Highway, 
Park Ridge, Illinois. 60068 
Dear Mr. MacArthur: 
This relates to your letter of February 25 with respect 
to the claim, used by Citizens Bank in advertising its United 
Security Accounts, that such accounts guarantee to the depositors 
"the very highest rate of savings interest paid by any bank in 
the United States". 
As you know, a number of banks in the United States are 
currently paying, on savings deposits, a rate that is substantially 
higher than the rate paid on savings deposits in Citizens Bank. 
The Board understands that you regard the above-quoted statement 
as "truthful" on the ground that the advertisement refers to 
"interest". Perhaps it is your impression that all banks that pay 
rates higher than the rate paid by Citizens Bank do so in the 
form of "dividends" rather than "interest". 
Even if that impression were correct, in the Board's 
judgment advertising of the kind under discussion would be mis-
leading. Among the hundreds of thousands of persons to whom your 
solicitation has been and is being addressed, there must be many 
who are unaware that banks in some parts of the country pay 5 per 
cent on savings deposits (in contrast to the 4 per cent rate 
available at Citizens Bank), and such persons would be led by 
your bank's advertising to believe that it would be fruitless to 
seek a higher ,rate at other banks. 
A statement that is literally true may nevertheless be 
objectionable if its effect is to give readers an incorrect im-
pression. To mention a prominent example of the recognition of 
this principle, the Federal securities laws are directed against 
not only "any untrue statement of a material fact" but also 

1213 
Mr. Roderick MacArthur 
-2-
"any omission to state a material fact necessary in order 
to make the statements made, in the light of the circum-
stances under which they were made, not misleading . . . ." 
For the reasons indicated, Citizens Bank
fs advertising 
that it pays "the very highest rate of savings interest" would be 
misleading to many prospective depositors even if all banks that 
pay more than 4 per cent on savings actually did so in the form of 
'dividends". As a matter of fact, however, in some States (includ-
ing Alaska, Pennsylvania, and Washington) mutual savings banks are 
permitted by law to use the term "interest" in describing the re-
turn they pay on savings, and banks actually do pay interest, so 
designated, at the rate of 5 per cent. Accordingly, the statement 
in the b a n k ^ advertising does not appear to be defensible even on 
the narrow ground you have advanced. In other words, the statement 
appears to be false in a literal sense, as well as misleading. 
Citizens Bank is aware, no doubt, that the Act of 
September 21, 1968 amended section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve 
Act to authorize the Board of Governors to "prescribe rules govern-
ing the . . . advertisement of interest on deposits". Attention is 
directed also to the fact that savings accounts, being evidences 
of indebtedness on the part of the issuer, constitute securities 
within the purview of the Securities Act of 1933. Although securities 
issued by banks are exempted from the registration requirements and 
certain other provisions of the Securities Act, they are subject 
to the provisions of section 17(a), entitled "Fraudulent Interstate 
Transactions", which makes it unlawful to obtain money from the 
public in exchange for such securities 
"by means of any untrue statement of a material fact or 
any omission to state a material fact necessary in order 
to make the statements made, in the light of the circum-
stances under which they were made, not misleading". 
The Board expects Citizens Bank to eliminate from its 
advertising statements of the kind quoted in the first paragraph 
of this letter. Citizens Bank is requested to keep the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago informed currently of the actions taken 
in this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
