MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 10, 1971 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 5 Amendments to Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies. 

2343 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 10, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 3/ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance _4/ 
Mr.^Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 4_/ 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was pre-
sented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed matters of interest to the Board 
The f;o.»i'<; 
cov.id crujairjouaiy c. ho tu 
' - 
t :l 
presently being considered by the Congress, after which members of 
the staff who had attended the meeting for the purpose of the economic 
V;\ 
a;; Cjvont'. 
Ol^'Un ' ... 
: • . 
: • ., 
i r Attended afternoon session only. 
2/ 
Withdrew from afternoon session at point indicated in minutes. 
3/ Attended morning session only. 
4j Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2344 
9/10/71 
- 2 -
and financial review left the room along with certain others who with-
drew temporarily. 
During a limited session Governor Brimmer reported on the 
preliminary reaction of the Treasury Department to his letter of 
August 27, 1971, to Mr. Volcker, Under Secretary for Monetary Affairs, 
relating to the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
The following then joined the meeting: 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Sanders and Crews and Mrs. Heller 
of the Legal Division 
Mr. Chase of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood of the Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Solomon and Lyon of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, 
New York, granting consent (1) to acquire stock of First National 
Finance Limited, a company being formed in Kingston, Jamaica, and 
tiviiti'.i I or ck-vj viv;pl jcjicwu, i'r^ 
a w> fc^iuvi .-it: j v 
v.: if. 
(2) to continue to hold that stock after First National Finance 
Limited issues certain debt instruments. A copy of the letter is 
•siyjf/Vjr u £ £ vli.U. £V V • 
3 
UO > «„"?; /. V .. 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Barnett 
Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
aiwcncr •I:k.,!UHVH\JUU5 dacud --U^u-M;. i;>, zUv 
l 
Ou 
^^fi-ii an 
American Bank at Ormond Beach, Ormond Beach, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 2) reflecting that 
decision. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 

9/10/71 
- 3 -
Boatmen's Bancshares. The application of Boatmen's Banc-
shares, Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of 
O'Fallon, O'Fallon, Missouri, had been considered previously by the 
Board, most recently on August 19. The staff had recommended 
approval, but several members of the Board expressed concern that the 
applicant's tender offer to stockholders involved payment of a pre-
mium of 120 per cent over book value, and that this was substantially 
greater than premiums offered in comparable cases that had been 
considered by the Board. A question was raised as to whether the 
premium reflected a payment for monopoly power and, if so, whether 
it might be desirable to deny the application in the hope of encour-
aging de novo entry. The staff was asked to study the case further 
and submit its findings to the Board. 
In a memorandum dated September 7, the Division of Research 
and Statistics concluded that the high premium was no cause for 
denial of the application. The premium was attributable to the 
rapidly growing area in which the bank is located, combined with 
severe regulatory barriers to de novo entry. 
A draft order covering approval of the application was trans-
mitted with a memorandum from the Legal Division dated August 9. In 
another memorandum, dated August 18, the Legal Division suggested an 
addition to the order that would cover the question raised about the 
high premium; a possible revision of the proposed addition was dis-
tributed at today's meeting. 

9/10/71 
- 4 -
There followed a general discussion, during which there were 
several suggestions for further revision of the order to make it 
clear that the Board in its administration of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act was concerned with excessive premiums, and in this instance 
the premium was greater than that ordinarily offered. Reference was 
made to a study that the Division of Research and Statistics planned 
to make regarding the determinants of acquisition premiums. Although 
this study was scheduled for 1972, the staff was asked to begin it 
this year in order to provide a more satisfactory basis for deter-
mining the appropriateness of premiums offered in proposals for 
holding company acquisitions. 
The Board then unanimously approved the application, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, with the 
understanding that the suggested revisions would be made. A copy of 
the order, as issued, is attached as Item No. 3. 
•f i. 
. r 
at 
v/ Ac.{ 
\? /est :<iay 
Banks of Iowa. After discussion, the Board approved unani-
mously the application of Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, a 
one-bank holding company, to acquire shares of Union Bank and Trust 
Company, Ottumwa, Iowa, with the understanding that an order and 
statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
7 
\ -T/>. .'i'lfv^d- 
'i baa !.->•- for 
d i s c u a t - 
that 
In considering this application, question was raised as to 
the banking structure trend in the State of Iowa. The staff was 
requested to prepare a report for the Board on this matter. 

2m 
9/10/71 
- 5 -
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
at 2:15 p.m. with all members of the Board except Governor Sherrill 
in attendance, along with the following staff: 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and f Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of Research and 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Control provisions of Holding Company Act. At yesterday's 
meeting the Board considered proposed revisions in Regulation Y, 
Bank Holding Companies, in the form of a series of presumptions, to 
define circumstances that may be found to constitute control of a 
bank or other company in the light of the 1970 amendments to the 
Bank Holding Company Act. A memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
September 7, 1971, served as a basis for the discussion at that 
meeting. Three of the proposed presumptions of control covered in 
the September 7 memorandum were discussed at yesterday's meeting 

2348 
9/10/71 
- 6 -
and, as recommended by the Legal Division, it was agreed (Governor 
Robertson dissenting) to add to section 222.2 of Regulation Y as a 
conclusive presumption of control the "stapled-shares rule" and, as 
a rebuttable presumption, the "interlock and family attribution rules" 
and to include in the guidelines for the Reserve Banks the "multi-
bank stock ownership rules." 
At today s meeting the Board proceeded to consider the other 
presumptions of control, which are quoted hereafter as they appeared 
in the September 7 memorandum. 
Shareholder restriction rule. 
A company that enters into any agreement or understanding 
under which the rights of a shareholder of a bank or other 
company are restricted in any manner presumably controls 
the shares involved, unless the agreement or understanding 
is incident to a bona fide loan transaction, or the 
restrictions are on transferability and continue only for 
such time as may reasonably be necessary to obtain Board 
approval :of the acquisition by the company of such shares. 
The Legal Division recommended modification of the rule to 
permit mutual agreements among shareholders granting to each other 
a right of first refusal as to their shares. After discussion, it 
w a s agreed to accept the recommendation, Governor Robertson dissent-
ing. 
Management contract rule. 
A company that enters into any agreement or understanding 
with a bank or other company pursuant to which the company 
or any of its subsidiaries exercises significant influence 
with respect to the management or overall operations of the 
bank or other company presumably controls such bank or other 
company. 

23413 
9/10/71 
- 7 -
The Legal Division recommended addition of a "such as" 
clause to clarify the fact that the rule covers management contracts 
but not investment advice agreements. After discussion, during which 
other changes in wording were suggested, it was agreed to accept the 
recommendation, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Convertible securites rule. 
A company that owns directly or indirectly securities that 
are immediately convertible at the option of the holder or 
owner thereof into voting shares presumably owns the shares 
into which such securites are convertible. 
The Legal Division recommended that the rule be adopted as 
proposed. After discussion, it was agreed to accept the recommen-
dation, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Common partner rule. 
If a partnership controls a bank, that partnership and all 
other partnerships in which one of the partners is a partner 
are presumably under common control by a "partnership" or 
similar organization for the purposes of the Act. 
The Legal Division recommended that the rule be eliminated 
in favor of including partnerships in the interlock and family attri-
bution rules. After discussion, there was agreement with that recom-
mendation, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Having discussed all of the presumptions, the Board by 
majority vote approved their adoption either as a part of Regulation Y 
or as guidelines to the Reserve Banks as recommended by the Legal 
Division, Governor Robertson dissenting. Governor Robertson's 
dissent was based on the view that adoption of these regulations was 

2350 
9/10/71 
- 8 -
beyond the powers conferred on the Board by the Bank Holding Company 
Act, and that at least some of the presumptions were not in harmony 
with the realities of corporate control. 
(Note: A copy of Governor 
Robertson's dissenting statement is attached as Item No. 4.) 
It was understood that the Federal Register document and 
the press release reflecting the action taken would be submitted to 
the Board for review prior to their issuance. 
(Note: Attached under Item No. 5 are copies of the press 
release issued on September 20 and of the amendments to Regulation Y 
as subsequently published in the Federal Register.) 
American Security and Trust. During discussion at the Board 
meeting on June 28, 1971, of proposals to amend Regulation Y by 
including presumptions of control a question was raised about the 
relationship of American Security and Trust Company to American 
Security Corporation, both of Washington, D. C. 
In 1957, American Security and Trust Company established 
American Security Corporation, with the chief executive officer of 
the bank also serving as the chief executive officer of the corpo-
ration. The relationship between the bank and the corporation had 
been perpetuated by a stock stapling device, which resulted in the 
corporation's stock always being held, share for share, by the bank's 
stockholders. Almost continuously since 1968 the corporation had 
held 25 per cent or more of the stock in a bank outside the District 

2351 
9/10/71 
- 9 -
of Columbia, although it had never held more than 25 per cent of the 
stock of more than one bank at any one time. Since December 21, 1970, 
the corporation had held the majority interest in Fairfax County 
National Bank, Seven Corners, Virginia. 
(By law, American Security 
and Trust Company would not be permitted to acquire a bank outside 
the District of Columbia.) 
The Board's action today in amending Regulation Y to include 
a conclusive presumption that control exists whenever 25 per cent or 
more of any class of voting securities of another company are stapled 
or otherwise joined together would cover the type of relationship 
existing between American Security and Trust Company and the corpo-
ration that it created. Under the amended regulation, the corporation 
would now be required to file a registration statement with the 
Federal Reserve. 
The question was whether the Board should initiate proceedings 
for the issuance of an order to require American Security Corporation 
to divest itself of any shares of bank stock acquired by it prior to 
January 1, 1971. ; In a memorandum dated July 22, 1971, the Legal 
Division concluded that the legal question of whether the Board would 
be sustained on appeal if it were to issue such an order was too 
close to permit the Division to say there was a clear probability in 
either direction. At today's meeting Mr. Sanders recommended that 
the Board not apply the stapled-shares rule retroactively in this 
case. 

2 3 5 S 
9/10/71 
- 1 0 -
There followed a general discussion, after which the Board 
agreed unanimously not to initiate proceedings for the issuance of 
an order to require American Security Corporation to divest itself 
of shares of bank stock acquired before January 1, 1971. It was 
understood that a letter reflecting this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Guidelines to Reserve Banks concerning control provisions of 
Holding Company Act. A draft letter to the Presidents of all Federal 
Reserve Banks embodying the guidelines approved at today's meeting 
with respect to determining when a company exercises control over a 
bank or other company had been submitted with the Legal Division's 
September 7 memorandum. 
of the letter; however, there were several suggestions for editorial 
revisions. The letter was approved with the understanding that the 
> 
suggested revisions would be made and that the revised letter would 
be reviewed by the Board. 
(Note: A copy of the letter sent on 
September 17 is attached as Item No. 6.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
) 
Discussion indicated general agreement as to the content 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/10/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
E O A N D 
September 13, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of June 25, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("FNCOIC"): (1) to purchase and hold 75 per cent of 
the capital stock of First National Finance Limited ("FNFL"), 
Kingston, Jamaica, at a cost of approximately $500,000, and (2) to 
continue to hold the shares of FNFL after FNFL issues debt instru-
ments with maturities in excess of one year in an amount up to 
approximately $18,000,000. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FNFL is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FNFL if FNFL at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, could with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or' if FNFL establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Jamaica or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of FNFL as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNFL be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if FNFL were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

2354 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate, to restrictions on loans granted by FNFL in Jamaica in 
the currency of that country. 
In view of the proposed activities of FNFL, the foregoing 
consent is granted with the understanding that FNFL will only issue 
credit cards and solicit member establishments outside the United 
States. 
It is further understood that FNFL's warehousing activities 
will be restricted to the warehousing of goods in Jamaica and that 
its operations will remain an integral part of the operations of the 
branches of First National City Bank in Jamaica and that the great 
majority of goods to be stored in warehouses will be financed in one 
form or another by those branches. 
Your attention is also directed to a recent interpretation 
issued by the Board relating to leasing activities. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the. Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of FNFL. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its subsidiaries, 
and that full consideration is being given to the priorities for 
U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit needs of developing 
countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

2355 
Item No. 2 
9/10/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
' 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
' 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
f 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
American Bank at Ormond Beach, Ormond 
' 
Beach, Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the 
board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of American Bank at Ormond Beach, Ormond Beach, 
plorida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Commissioner 
Banking and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
responded that he recommended approval of the application. 

o o c r 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 22, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13639), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
^ e banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant has 27 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
t>f approximately $785 million, representing 5.6 per cent of the 
Commercial bank deposits in Florida. 
(Banking data are as of 
December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board through August 19, 1971.) Approval 
'Of the acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's percentage share 
•Of such deposits in Florida by less than one tenth of one per cent. 
Although Applicant presently has one subsidiary bank, 
fiarnett Bank of Daytona Bcach ("Daytona Beach Bank") in the Daytona 
Beach area, this subsidiary was not opened until January 18, 1971, 
and ranks as the smallest bank in the area. Bank itself was opened on 

2357 
- 3 -
June 26, 1970, and ranks as the next to smallest bank in the Daytona 
Beach area with only 1.3 per cent of area deposits. In addition to 
their small size, Daytona Beach Bank and Bank are separated by the 
downtown Daytona Beach business district and the Halifax River, which 
further restricts present competition and the development of any future 
competition between the two. Moreover, two large holding companies 
together have over 43 per cent of the deposits in the area so that 
there is little danger that Applicant will become the dominant organi-
sation in the Daytona Beach area even with the addition of Bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory 
consistent with approval. Considerations related to the convenience 
needs of the community are also consistent with approval. It is 
the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

235 
- 4 -
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 10, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[SEAL] 

Item No 
9/X0/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
BOATMEN'S BANCSHARES, INC., 
st. Louis, Missouri, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Bank of 
Fallon, 0'Fallon, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc. 
('Applicant"), St. Louis, Missouri, a registered bank holding 
°0lr'pany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 
p G r cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of O'Fallon ("Bank"), 
Fallon, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
^i^ance for the State of Missouri, end requested his views and 
rGc°mmendation. The Commissioner responded that his office had no 
ejection to approval of the application. 

2360 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 26, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12192), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
an<3 all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
Gffect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a n d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
e banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o be served, and finds that: 
Applicant has three subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
o f $328.8 million, representing 2.9 per cent of the total commercial 
deposits in the State and, on the basis of deposits, is the 
Sl*th largest banking organization and sixth largest bank holding 
COfrPany i n Missouri. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 
l97°, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions and formations 
aPproved by the Board through July 31, 1971.) 
Bank ($8.7 million of deposits), the only bank in O'Fallon, is 
Seated 35 miles northwest of St. Louis, and ranks sixth among the 
ight banks in St. Charles County and second among the five banks 
°4$Peting in its primary service area, which is approximated by the 
^ 
o f O'Fallon and environs. Bank holds 31.7 per cent of the 

- 3 -
2361 
commercial bank deposits in its primary service area. Each of Applicant's 
Present subsidiary banks is located more than 23 miles from Bank, and 
none of them appears to compete with Bank to any significant extent. 
It appears, therefore, that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
Would not eliminate any meaningful competition. Moreover, in light 
°f the facts of record, including the distances separating Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries from Bank, Missouri's restrictive branching 
and the availability of numerous banking alternatives, it does 
not appear that any significant potential competition would be 
foreclosed by the consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area nor have undue adverse 
effects on other banks in the area involved and, in fact, may 
enhance competition in the service area by enabling Bank to become 
a more effective competitor. The financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are 
generally considered satisfactory and consistent with approval of 
the application. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
°f the communities to be served lend some weight in support of approval 
°f the application. Applicant proposes to expand many of Bank's 
existing services and to assist Bank in establishing several new 
services, including data processing and trust services. The residents 
'of Bank's service area should benefit from the added convenience 
Resulting from the broader range cf services offered by Bank. 

- 4 -
Iri considering this application the Board noted that the 
Applicant's tender offer to stockholders of Bank is in an amount 
greater than twice the per share book value. The premium is equal 
to 13 per cent of deposits, and is greater than premiums ordinarily 
offered in cases that have been considered by the Board. As a 
latter of policy in its administration of the Holding Company Act, 
the Board is concerned with excessive premiums. Such premiums raise 
the question whether holding companies are making sound business 
judgments; they also tend to weaken the earning power of holding 
companies. An even more serious question is whether a bank is 
being acquired because of a dominant market position that will be 
exploited further by affiliation with a strong holding company. If 
50> the public interest would ordinarily require a holding company 
to enter the market de novo. In the present case, however, in view 
the size of the community and the bank involved and the Board's 
Valuation of other relevant circumstances in the record, including 
the fact that another holding company has applied for a new charter 
O'Fallon, the Board has concluded that the premium involved, 
although a matter of concern, is not such as to require denial of 
the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 

- 5 -
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 10, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors 24itchell, Daane, Ilaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

f 
2364 
Item No. 4 
9/10/71 
September 16, 1971 
Memorandum: 
To: 
Secretary's Office 
Subject: Reasons for my 
vote against proposed 'con-
From: 
Governor Robertson 
tvol" 
regulations under 
Hoi ding Company Act LRe&.__jjJ_ 
In my view, adoption of these regulations is beyond 
the powers conferred on the Board by the Holding Company 
Act. 
In addition, some, at least, of the presumptions are 
not in harmony with the realities of corporate control. 
1. From the legal standpoint, it must be noted 
that Congress has specifically defined (in section 2(a) 
i 
(2)) the circumstances that constitute "control" of a bank 
or company for purpose* of the Act. The first is control 
of 25 per cent or more of voting shares. The second is 
C. " 
control of the election of a majority of directors. The 
tVo! .. 
i/i ... 
third is a Board determination, "after notice and oppor-
tunity for hearing, that the company ... exorcises a con-
trolling influence" over another company. 
v\: . 
\ 
• c: \ K lo 
b 1:.'; 
: • Y 
The Board has not been empowered to expand the 
number or the coverage of these categories, prescribed 
by Congress. Section 5(b) of the Act authorises the 
Board to issue regulations necessary to "prevent evasions" 
•x k 
w 

2365 
Memorandum: --#2 
(9 /16 / 71 > 
of the Act's purposes, but this does not authorise expansion 
of the Act's scope. 
The foregoing views apply with particular force to 
the proposed "Conclusive presumption of control51 whenever 
25 per cent of the voting securities of each of two companies 
are stapled or otherwise joined together (section 222.2(a)). 
Under this regulation, the fact of such stapling ipso facto 
will establish the existence of a holding company. As X 
understand it, the Board does not claim authority to add 
additional categories to section 2(a)(2) of the Act, con-
tending that its adoption of section 222.2(a) is a permissible 
extension of clause (C) of section 2(a)(2).* But both the 
terms and the history of clause (C) show that it was intended 
only to authorize the Board to determine, "after notice and 
opportunity for hearing", that the company under considera-
tion as a matter of fact "exercises a controlling influence" 
over a specific bank or company. Under the new regulation, 
there will be no such determination. 
If stock of a bank and 
* Congress may, of course, extend the scope of clause (C) 
through the use of such conclusive presumptions. 
It ac-
tually did so in section 2(g)(2) of the Act, which provides 
that shares held by trustees for the benefit of a company, 
its shareholders, or its employees "shall be deemed to be 
controlled by such company". 

236G 
Memorandum:—#3 
(9/16/71) 
another company la stapled or otherwise joined together 
for purposes of transfer and ownership, the Board's regu-
lation rules that the stockholders constitute a bank hold-
ing company, even though it would be impossible to establish 
the existence of actual control. 
Although the new section 222.2(a) describes the 
Board's new rule as a "conclusive presumption of control", 
the provision actually is an expansion of the definition 
of "company" in section 2(b) of the Act. 
If anything is 
clear about the Holding Company Act, it is its inapplicabilit; 
to individuals. However, if two men, each o w i n g 15 per 
cent of the stock of two corporations, agree to sell shares 
of one corporation only in combination with shares of the 
other, under the new section 222.2(a) those two men are 
ruled to be a "company", a term defined in the Act to exclude 
individuals. 
Legal weaknesses inhere also in the five "rebuttable 
presumptions of control" listed in section 222.2(b). 
In a 
proceeding under section 2(a)(2)(C) of the Act, the Board 
intends to be in a position to make the required determina-
tion by doing no more than pointing to a rebuttable pre-
sumption set up by its own regulation. 
It will be under DO 

236 
Memoraudiim: - -'//4 
(9/16/71) 
obligation to find evidence that control actually exists 
in the particular case, as contemplated by clause (C). 
The company in question will bear the burden of rebutting 
the presumption. Unless it discharges, to the Board1s 
satisfaction, the difficult burden of proving a negative 
proposition - that control does not exist - the Board may 
lawfully make a determination of control, relying on no 
more than the presumption it has established. 
This does not comply with the provisions of section 
2(a)(2)(C), which, as noted, calls for a finding of actual 
control in each case, based on the facts of the particular 
situation. 
2, Even if the Board were legally justified in 
establishing such regulatory presumptions, most of these, 
if not all, would be of questionable validity because they 
do not jibe with business reality. 
I will not attempt to 
enumerate all of their shortcomings, but a few examples 
seem called for. 
Rebuttable presumption number (1) takes the position 
that a corporation is a holding company if it owns more than 
5 per cent of a bank's stock and has a director on its 
board (if no other person owns 5 per cent of such stock). 

2 3 b 8 
Memorandum: 
(9/16/71) 
It is quite usual, and reasonable, for an Investment company 
or other corporation that oims over 5 per cent of a bank's 
stock to have one of its officers serving on the bank's 
board of perhaps 25 directors. After decades of experience 
in bank supervision, I say with conviction that in such cases 
the corporate holder of, let us say, 6 per cent of the bank's 
stock usually does not "exercise a controlling influence 
over the management or policies of the bank" simply because 
one of its officers is also a director of the bank. 
As previously noted, the Holding Company Act: does not 
apply to an individual who controls one or more banks. 
But 
if an individual who owns most of a banl& stock elects to 
place 8 per cent of it, let us say, in a family corporation, 
rebuttable presumption number (2) states that that corporation 
controls the bank - "exercises a controlling influence over 
[its] management or policies". 
In such cases this presump-
tion verges on the absurd, since control unquestionably con-
tinues to be held solely by the individual who continues to 
own directly the majority stock. 
The true nature of these presumptions - that they are 
administrative amendments of a legislative enactment - is 

• 
• 
• 
2369 
Memorandum: 
•'•6 
(9/16/71) 
particularly clear in number (3), under which a corpora-
tion, in certain circumstances, would be a holding company 
if it exercised "significant influence with respect: to the 
0v"r ' •• 
PuUs It will L)\ • 
•...••• u>.• i 
management ... of the bank". 
In other words, although the 
statute explicitly provides that holding company status, 
under section 2(a)(2)(C), depends on exercise of "con-
I 
M trolling influence", the Board by regulation lias decided 
that .'something less ("significant influence") shall be suf-
-M'-.r U > j tliK) o.li'ctiui! or. a 
}>:. c i 
i 
v. 
ficient. 
• 
, 
• t ••;.: tiv It ii tu h Ulkii 
;; 
; * mj Cr.i \j 
ii } ::oat ;:•;> 11 j. 
fcu.lo to dfetIn-. < u a c< 
'-•••> ci"ry 
the con£rf t p 
>i 
p.-', et•••.»}? >: >•;•>• Ivi-sjUji i-.. I 
, % 
" - t » COiltXcU of il-'bi-TiU 'or- ochcr-c 
till .r UK: . A-- -fc , 0, • .;•> 
' 
Li, * , i.o i.it'; im- J r; 
iV.nV: „Y. t 

Item No. 5 
9/10/71 
itr.raedi.ate release. 
September 20, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced the rules it will follow in determining when a company 
exercises control over a bank or other company, in the light of the 
l970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Under the original Bank Holding Company Act of 1936, only 
those holding companies that controlled 25 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of a bank holding company or of two or more banks, or 
c°ntroiled the election of a majority of the directors of each of two 
0 r more banks, were required to register with the Federal Reserve and 
l]mit their activities to banking and closely related activities. 
The 1.970 amendments, in part, extended the provisions of the 
to holding companies controlling only one bank and gave the Board 
heater latitude to determine when control exists. 
To carry out the control provisions of the Act, the Board has 
Gst"-abiished as part of its Regulation Y a scries of presumptions re-
garding control of a bank or other company, based on its 15 years ex-
perience in administering the Act. These presumptions, with certain 
Exceptions, are generally those that were proposed by the Board on 
J u ]y 1. The proposals not included in the Regulation will serve as 
guidelines to the Reserve Banks for investigation of control in indi-
Vidual cases. The Regulation also reflects the control provisions of 
original Act and the 1966 amendments. 

Under the Act and Regulation, it is a conclusive 
that a company controls a bank or other company, if; 
1. It directly or indirectly owns, controls or has the 
Power to vote 25 per cent or more of any class of voting securities 
the bank or other company. 
2. It controls in any manner the election of a majority of 
tli 
le directors or trustees of the bank or company. 
The Act and Regulation also state that shares owned or con-
°Ued by any subsidiary of a bank holding company are indirectly 
Ued or controlled by the holding company itself, and that shares 
Kld by trustees for the benefit of a company, its shareholders or its 
^Ployec, are controlled by that company. 
In addition the Board has determined that common control 
,sts whenever 25 per cent or more of any class of voting securities 
company are stapled or otherwise joined with 25 per cent or more 
Q ny class of voting securities of another company whether pursuant 
to nn 
utl agreement, by-law, article of incorporation or other means. 
The Board also listed a series of rebuttable presumptions 
°utlined the procedures to be used for determining control in such 
UlJvj;i or in any other case where it appears to the Board that control 
sts« 
The Board emphasized, however, that the existence of control 
iri n 'ny fciven instance, whether found on the basis of one or more pre-
:ion on any 
r'Ptions or otherwise, would not prejudice the Board's act: 
< 
••-cation for approval of the acquisition of shares by the company 

o o ^ y o 
<<J^J 4 f*w 
- 3 -
baving control. In other words, a company having control of a bank 
has no automatic ri^ht to acquire shares in the controlled bank without 
the approval of the Board. In any application for such approval, the 
existence of such control would merely be one of the factors which the 
Board would take into consideration, not necessarily favorably, in 
reaching its decision, 
The Act itself establishes a rebuttable presumption of control 
vhere ownership of shares was transferred after January 1, 1966, by n 
bank holding company-~or by a company that would be a bank holding com-
pany except for the transfer--in circumstances in which the recipient of 
the shares can be regarded as under the control of the company making the 
transfer. 
In addition, the Board's Regulation will establish the follow-
ing rebuttable presumptions of control of a bank or other company: 
1.. Where a company controls more than 5 per cent of any class 
of voting securities of a bank or other company if either of the follow-
ing conditions exist: 
(a) The company has an interlock with the bank or other 
company through one or more directors, trustees, partners, or officers 
or employes with policymaking functions, and no other person controls 
as much as 5 per cent of any class of voting securities of the bank or 
°ther company. 
(b) Additional voting securities are controlled by 
individuals (or members of their immediate families) who are directors, 

23 r 3 
- A-
officers, trustees,or partners of the company, and the individual 
securities plus those held by the company total 25 per cent or more of 
any class of voting securities of the bank or second company. Directors, 
officers, trustees, or partners who own 25 per cent or more of any class 
°f voting securities of the bank or other company would also be covered 
by this presumption. 
(Ihe above presumption does not apply when voting securities 
a bank or other company are held in a fiduciary capacity and the com-
pany does not have sole discretionary authority to exercise the voting 
rights). 
2. Where a company, or any of its subsidiaries, which, by 
virt.ue of an agreement or understanding, exercises a significant in-
fluence over the management or over-al l operations of a bank or other 
company. 
3. Where a company enters into an agreement--which involv.es 
shares constituting control- - restrict ing in any manner the rights of a 
nolder of voting securities of a bank or other company, except that the 
Resumption does not: apply to agreements among shareholders granting 
Gach other a right of first refusal with respect to their shares, agree-
ments incident to a bona fide loan transaction or agreements restricting 
transfers temporarily while awaiting approval of'an acquisition by a 
federal bank supervisory agency. 
4. Where a company owns securities that are immediately con-
Ve*'t.ible at the option of the holder or owner into voting securities and 

2374 
- 5 -
the amount of the voting securities involved would constitute control 
of the bank or other company under the criteria of the regulation. 
Under procedures spelled out in the regulation, the Board 
will inform a company by letter that a preliminary determination of 
control, has been made. The company has 30 days--or longer if permitted 
ky the Board-- to (a) indicate its willingness to end the control re-
lationship and furnish a specific plan to do so, (b) state that it will 
seek Board approval to retain the shares, register, report the controlled 
company as a subsidy or otherwise comply with the Act, or (c) set forth 
any facts and circumstances to support its contention that control does 
not exist. 
A company may request a hearing to contest the Board's pre-
liminary determination of control. 
Several rebuttable presumptions that were proposed by the Board 
v'ill serve as guidelines to the Reserve Banks for ascertaining possible 
areas of control, although they are not formally a part of the regulation. 
The Reserve Banks will conduct investigations to determine the 
question of control in the following situations: 
1. Whenever a partnership has significant interests in a bank 
or bank holding company. 
2. Where a company controls at least 10 per cent of the shares 
each of two banks or 5 per cent of the shares of each of three or 
more banks. 
3. Where a bank makes loans secured by bank stock at terms more 
favorable to the borrower than should otherwise be expected. 
A copy of the amendment, which is effective tomorrow, is attached. 
-0-

2375 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Control of a Bank or Other Company 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Agister on July 9, 1971 (36 F.R. 12915), the Board of Governors proposed 
to implement its regulatory authority under sections 2 and 5 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act by establishing a series of presumptions regarding 
control of a bank or other company, based on the Board's 15 years of ex-
perience in administering the Act. 
Upon consideration of the comments received, the Board has 
decided that the proposed presumptions, with certain exceptions, should 
be adopted. 
The proposed exemptions that have not been included in the 
regulation as adopted will serve as some of the guidelines to the Reserve 
Banks as indicia of control that may require investigation. 
Specifically, 
tb-e Reserve Banks will make appropriate inquiry into situations where a 
company controls at least 10 per cent of the shares of each of two banks 
° r 5 per cent of each of three or more banks, and whenever a partnership 
has significant interests in a bank or bank holding company. They will 
also investigate where a bank makes loans secured by bank stock at terms 
*ore favorable to the borrower than should be expected in the circumstances. 

- 2 -
237r 
Where a company owns 5 per cent or more of a bank or other 
company, the Reserve Banks will investigate to determine whether it has 
instrumental in the following: hiring or firing a person or persons; 
establishing policies or places for branches; establishing hours of busi-
n(-ss; deciding on rates, terms, or acceptance of loans or deposits; fol-
lowing uniforu. advertising practices or using a common telephone system; 
°r in any other respects directing the activities of management or estab-
lishing the policies of the bank or company. 
To Implement its decision in this matter, § 222,2 of Regulation 
V -j 
is amended to read as follows: 
^ 222,2 Pete .nninati ons record In p. control. 
(a) Conclusive presumptions of control. Conclusive presump-
tions that a company controls a bank or other company are established 
hy section 2(a)(2)(A) and (B) and by section 2(g)(1) and (2) of the 
^ct. In addition, the Board has determined that, whenever the transfer-
ability of 25 "per cent or more of any class of voting securities of a 
c°mpany is conditioned in any manner, whether pursuant to an agreement, 
ky-law, article of incorporation, or otherwise, upon the transfer of 25 
cent or moTe of any class of voting securities of another company, 
^ e holders of the securities affected by the condition (that is, those 
who hold both the securities whose transferability is so conditioned and 
securities whose transfer can be required to satisfy the condition) 
constitute, in their capacity as such, a "company" for the purposes of 
Act unless, one of the issuers of such securities is a subsidiary of 
other and is so identified in an order of the Board or in a registra-
tion statement or report accepted by the Board under the Act. 

(b) Rebuttable presumptions of control, A rebuttable presump-
tion that a company controls a bank or other company is established by 
section 2(g)(3) of the Act. In addition, the Board has established, for 
use in proceedings instituted in accordance with the procedures of para-
graph (c) below, the following rebuttable presumptions: 
(1) A company that owns, controls, or has power to vote more 
than 5 per cent of any class of voting securities of a bank or other 
company (except where such securities arc held in a fiduciary capacity 
the company does not have sole discretionary authority to exercise 
the voting rights) presumably controls that bank or other company if 
(i) one or more of the company's directors, trustees, or partners, or 
°fficers or employees with policymaking functions serves in any of these 
Opacities with the bank or other company, and (ii) no other person owns, 
e°ntrol3, or has power to vote as much as 5 per cent of any class of 
v°ting securities of that bank or other company. 
(2) A company that owns, controls, or has power to vote more 
t^an 5 per cent of any class of voting securities of a bank or other 
c°mpany (except: where such securities are held in a fiduciary capacity 
atld the company does not have sole discretionary authority to exercise 
the voting rights) presumably controls that bank or other company if 
additional voting securities are owned, controlled, or held with power 
t o vote by individuals (or members of their immediate families as defined 
§ 206.2(k) of this chapter (Regulation F)) who are directors, officers, 
trustees, or partners of the company (or own, directly or indirectly, 25 
P^r cent or more of any class of voting securities of the company) and, 
together with the company's securities, aggregate 25 per cent or more 
any class of voting securities of that bank or other company. 

- It -
237° 
(3) A company that enters into any agreement or understanding 
wi-th a bank or other company (other than an investment advisory agreement) , 
s^ch as a management contract, pursuant to which the company or any of its 
subsidiaries exercises significant influence with respect to the general 
Management or overall operations of the bank or other company presumably 
c°strols such bank or other company. 
(4) A company that enters into any agreement or understanding 
Ur*tfer which the rights of a holder of voting securities of a bank or other 
c°^pany are restricted in any manner presumably controls the shares involved, 
unless the agreement or understanding (i) is a mutual agreement among 
shareholders granting to each other a right of first refusal with respect 
t o their shares, or (ii) is incident to a bona fide loan transaction, or 
(iii) relates to restrictions on transferability and continues only for 
such time as may reasonably be necessary to obtain approval from a Federal 
b 
supervisory authority with respect to acquisition by the company of 
B^ch securities. 
(5) A company that owns directly or indirectly securities that 
a 
ircmedlately convertible at the option of the holder or owner thereof 
i h c ° voting securities presumably owns or controls the voting securities, 
(c) Procedures for determining control. 
(I) In any case in 
a presumption established by paragraph (b) applies, or in any other 
c 
where it appears to the Board that a company exercises a controlling 
"^fluence over the management or policies of a bank or other company, and 
tp 
company has not complied with the provisions of the Act, the Board may 
in£orm the company that a preliminary determination of control has been 
o n tjlQ k a s £ s cf the facts summarized in the communication. Such 

5 _ 
2379 
company shall within 30 days (or such longer period of time as may be 
permitted by the Board) (1) indicate to the Board its willingness to ter-
minate the control relationship and to furnish promptly its specific plan 
to do so; or (ii) state that it will promptly seek Board approval to retain 
the control relationship, or, if the control relationship has existed con-
tinuously since prior to December 31, 1970 (in a manner not covered by 
§ 2(a)(2)(A) or (B)), that it will register as a bank holding company or, 
if already a holding company, report the bank or other company as a subsi-
diary, or otherwise comply with the applicable provisions of the Act-
or (iii) set forth such facts and circumstances as may support its conten-
tion that there is not a control relationship. 
(2) A company may request a hearing to contest the Board's pre-
liminary determination of control. In the event a hearing is held, any 
applicable presumptions established by paragraph (b) shall be considered 
in the usual manner in accordance with the rules of evidence, and the 
Board will by order, on the basis of the record of the hearing, decide the 
issues involved and direct such action as may be necessary or appropriate 
in the circumstances. In the event no hearing is held, but the preliminary 
determination of control is contested, the Board will decide the matter on 
the basis of the evidence available to it, relying on the presumptions 
established in paragraph (b), and will by order direct such action as 
may be necessary or appropriate in the circumstances. 
Effective date: September 21, 1971. The effective date was not 
deferred because the amendments, with one known exception, do not require 
action by any person until the Board informs that person that it has made 
a preliminary determination of control. The exception is with respect to 

2380 
- 6 -
a company that has filed written materials regarding its situation, and 
the amendments reflect the Board's decision on the matter. In these cir-
cumstances , the Board found that deferral of the effective date would 
serve no useful purpose. 
To avoid unnecessary repetition of statutory provisions in its 
Regulation, the Board has deleted § 222.3(c) and (d). Such action is also 
effective September 21, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 10, 1971. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

238: 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
9/10/71 
$•-2173 
A O D P l ' S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N 
T O 
T H E 
d U A R D 
September 17, 1971 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed in Federal Register form is a copy of amendments to 
the Board's Regulation Y establishing a series of presumptions to be 
used by the Board In making findings regarding control of a bank or other 
company for purposes of determining whether a company is a bank holding 
company within the meaning of section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act 
and whether a bank holding company has nonbanking interests in violation 
the general prohibition in section 4 of the Act. The amendments are 
^ a c t i v e September 21, 1971. 
The Board regards the circumstances described in the rebut-
table presumptions as constituting sufficient le~al bases (unless evidence 
C u t t i n g the presumptions is offered) upon which to make determinations 
control and impose the sanctions of the Act upon the companies involved, 
•"•here are a number of other circumstances that, standing alone, might not 
Supp0rt valid presumptions of control but nonetheless are indicia of con-
trol and may call for further investigation to uncover facts that may 
support, a determination of control. Such circumstances include, but are 
n°t limited to, the following: 
(1) A company owns at least 10 per cent of each of two banks or 
a t least 5 per cent of each of three or more banks. 
(2) A company owning 5 per cent or more of a bank or bank 
folding company has been instrumental in: hiring or firing a person or 
Persons; establishing policies or places for branches; establishing hours 
busi .ness; deciding on rates, terms, or acceptance of loans or deposits; 
following uniform advertising practices or using a common telephone 
system; or in any other respects directing the activities of management 
017 establishing the policies of the bank or company. 
(3) A company lends to enable the borrower to acquire voting 
shares of a bank or other company ou terms more favorable to the borrower 

- 2 -
than the bank usually requires for loans to persons with comparable credit 
standing. 
(4) A partnership has significant interests in a bank or bank 
holding company. 
Trie Board expects that a Reserve Bank will search its records 
with resppct to registered bank holding companies to determine whether 
any of the rebuttable presumptions or guidelines described above apply 
to relationships involving such companies. An investigation should also 
be initiated in connection with any holding company application received 
by a Reserve Bank. With respect to banks that are not now, or proposing 
to become members of a holding company system, it is expected that .he 
applicability of the presumptions or guidelines will be investigated 
in connection with regular bank examinations. 
A major reason the Board has amended § 222.2 of Regulation Y 
is to furnish guidance to the public so that benefits may "suit to the 
extent that companies will avoid entering into the kinds of relationships 
described or will comply with provisions of the Act by applying to the < 
Board'for approval of the relationships involved. The foregoing guidelines 
for use by the Reserve Banks have been included in the Federal Register 
document amending § 222.2 as a further effort along this line. 
The Board anticipates that its action will minimize demands 
on its time, and the Reserve Banks should keep this objective m m m a 
When recommending action on control situations. Upon discovery <u a 
control situation, a Reserve Bank should make every effort to resolvethe 
Problem with the company without resorting to the procedures set out in 
§ 222.2(c). Whenever possible and appropriate, informal discussions with 
the companies involved should bo initiated to bring the problem to then 
attention and encourage them to terminate the control situation or comply 
With the applicable provisions of the Act. 
If a Reserve Bank believes that Board action with respect to 
a particular control situation is necessary, it should send all relevant 
evidence to the Board, together with an evaluation of the importance oi 
the control situation, the likelihood of its existence in otner cases, 
and a statement indicating the efforts between the Bank and the company 
to cure the problem. Additionally, the Reserve Banks are encouraged at 
any time to submit suggestions for additional presumptions or guidelines. 
Please print and make appropriate distribution of the amendments 
in the usual slip-sheet form. 
Very truly yours, 
A Tynan Smith 
/ 
Secretary 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
