MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 17, 1969 

543 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 17, 1969. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Mitchell 
Mr. Ma i s e1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
M r . Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' Offices 
M r . Bernard and M r s . Winkler of the Office of the 
Secretary 
• 
; , rcM'V 
' I, • 
. 
- .L-; 
Money market review. 
Today's review included reports on the 
Government securities market, on bank credit, and on the foreign 
exchange and gold markets. 
Copies of the several charts and tables 
distributed for the purpose of the review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
After general discussion based on the staff presentation, 
members of the staff concerned with the weekly review left the room 
1J 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

544 
2/17/69 
-12-
and several representatives of the Legal Division and the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation entered, including Messrs. O'Connell, 
Egertson, and Lyon. 
First Citizens Bank of Billings. 
Consideration was given to 
a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
February 12, 1969, relating to the application of First Citizens Bank 
of Billings, Billings, Montana, a new bank in process of organization, 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The application for a charter was originally submitted to 
the State Banking Department in December 1967 and was denied by the 
Superintendent of Banks in July 1968. 
The organizers then sought 
favorable action through the court, and the Superintendent was ordered 
to issue a certificate of authority to the proponents. 
The court order 
required deposit insurance but included no other minimum standards. 
As directed by the court, the Superintendent issued a certificate of 
authority in September, and the application for membership was submitted 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis in October. 
A copy of the application submitted to the Reserve Bank, with 
related material, was sent to the Superintendent of Banks with a request 
for his views, and he stated that the stock ownership plan was a serious 
enough weakness to warrant disapproval. 
As proposed, applicant would be a subsidiary of a one-bank 
holding company—Citizens Development Company, Billings, Montana. 
The 

t* 11— 
545. 
2/17/69 
-3-
seven directors of First Citizens would also be directors of Citizens 
Development Company. 
The holding company would have no income other 
than dividends from applicant. 
The reasons given for the proposed ownership structure were: 
(1) additional leverage available to majority stockholders, (2) tax 
advantages, (3) postponement of need by individuals who were to own 
stock of the holding company to raise cash either through personal 
borrowings or sale of other assets, and (4) assurance that control 
of the bank would not be acquired by others through acquisition of 
small blocks of stock. 
The memorandum pointed out that the proposed bank would have 
adequate capital, satisfactory earnings prospects, and satisfactory 
growth potential, and would make available to the Billings area another 
banking alternative without creating adverse competitive effects. 
Concern regarding management involved primarily lack of depth. 
The 
greatest reservation involved ownership of the bank by a holding 
company which would acquire considerable debt and the fact that the 
company would, in turn, be owned by seven individuals. 
The Federal Reserve Bank and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended approval of the application, although noting 
with concern the weaknesses of the application and the likelihood 
that the bank would require more than the usual degree of supervisory 
i V - V i. • > • ' V \ 
Hi-,; 
I \J '.h; 
C- il 
i V j e r 
O t 
,<ci 
11 H..2 t o n 
:' 'I * •.: O . 
attention. 

546 
2/17/69 
-12-
Following comments by the staff, Governor Mitchell said that 
in his opinion the memorandum covered the case well and he would 
approve the application. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concern over the use of the one-
bank holding company device in this situation. 
In his opinion, this 
was bad banking practice and the kind of precedent the Board should 
avoid. 
Therefore, he would deny the application. 
Governor Robertson said he would also deny the application. 
He noted that the holding company would have no income except from 
the bank. 
Failure to approve the application did not mean the bank 
would be unable to operate, if it could obtain deposit insurance, and 
he doubted the wisdom of granting membership, which automatically 
provided insurance in such a situation. 
Governor Maisel said he would approve the application, though 
he agreed it was marginal. 
Chairman Martin said he felt that the staff had outlined the 
problem clearly. 
He could not see what the Board would achieve by 
denying the application. 
The application was then approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter 
sent to applicant. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Washington Street National 

547 
2/17/69 
-12-
Bank, Columbia, South Carolina, with The First National Bank of 
South Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation 
of the proposed merger (designed to facilitate acquisition of the 
existing bank by a newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
Letter to Congresswoman Sullivan. 
Pursuant to the understand-
ing at the meeting on February 11, there had been distributed a revised 
draft of reply to Congresswoman Sullivan's request of January 10, 1969, 
for information concerning the financing of real estate speculators. 
The letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
First Virginia Bankshares. 
Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, 
granting consent to the acquisition of all of the stock of First Trust 
Company, a proposed "pure" trust company, under the provisions of 
section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The substance of the letter was sent to 
the Federal Reserve Banks for their information. 
Antitrust matter. 
There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated February 11, 1969, concerning evidence 
of an antitrust violation involving banks operating in the areas 

7 
2/17/69 
-12-
relevarit to the application of First Bankshare Association, Lewiston, 
Maine, to become a bank holding company. 
The analysis of that application prepared by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston contained certain information with respect to an apparent 
lack of competition between and among banks located in Farmington, 
Rumford, and Livermore Falls, Maine. 
Those conclusions were premised 
on statements made to Reserve Bank investigators by the president of 
First National Bank of Farmington, an institution located in the same 
town as one of applicant's proposed subsidiaries, that "agreements" 
existed between banks as to their respective market areas and banks 
did not compete in each other's area. 
These statements suggested 
violations of antitrust law such as to require, in the Legal Division's 
judgment, reporting the matter to the Department of Justice. 
The Reserve Bank's General Counsel had been advised of the 
Legal Division's intention to recommend to the Board that the substance 
of the interview be made known to the Antitrust Division. 
He had been 
assured that every effort would be made to preserve the anonymity of 
the reporting source, hopefully guarding against any impediment to 
future investigatory efforts. 
President Morris concurred in the proposed 
action. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Depart-
ment of Justice. 

2/17/69 
-7-
Chairman Martin suggested that as a matter of courtesy the 
letter be sent to the Comptroller of the Currency for his views, since 
the banks involved were national banks, before sending it to the Depart-
ment of Justice, and there was agreement with his suggestion. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether a precedent existed for 
proceeding in the manner recommended, and M r . O'Connell replied that 
to his knowledge the Board had never before come across direct infor-
mation such as this. 
M r . Hexter recalled that the Board had always 
felt an obligation to report to the Department of Justice occurrences 
that indicated a violation of law. 
It was then the Department's 
responsibility to decide whether the situation should be investigated 
further. 
In this particular case, he felt that the Board's obligation 
was fairly clear. 
The letter to the Department of Justice was then approved 
unanimously, with minor changes. 
It was understood that a copy would 
be sent to the Comptroller of the Currency for his comments prior to 
sending the letter to the Department of Justice. 
(Secretary's Note: 
On February 19, 1969, the Comptroller stated that he concurred in the 
Board's position and had no suggestions. 
Accordingly, the letter was 
sent to the Justice Department. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 4.) 
First Bankshare Association. 
There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 

550 
2/17/69 
-12-
January 31, 1969, and other papers pertinent to the application of 
First Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of First-Manufacturers 
National Bank of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, Maine, and The Peoples 
National Bank of Farmington, Farmington, Maine. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consid-
eration. 
Nationwide Investment Corporation. 
There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
February 6, 1969, concerning representations made by Nationwide Invest-
ment Corporation, Beverly Hills, California, a Regulation G registrant, 
as to the results of a Board-authorized inspection, made for the purpose 
of ascertaining whether Nationwide's operations were in violation of 
the margin regulations. 
Mr. Solomon commented that the investigation had disclosed 
practices that, while not perhaps technically in violation of the 
regulations, were very close. 
He went on to say that the investiga-
tors had told the corporation that its records were quite complete 
and the corporation had apparently attempted to capitalize on that 
fact. 
It had written to one bank, and possibly others, that the 
inspection constituted an audit by the Board of Governors and that 
the inspectors had approved the procedures, books, and records of 
Nationwide. 

551 
2/17/69 
-12-
Section 26 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 forbids any 
representation that an action or failure to act by the Board constitutes 
approval of any transaction in a security, or a finding that any state-
ment filed with or examined by the Board pursuant to the Act or any 
rule or regulation thereunder is true and accurate on its face or not 
false and misleading. 
Since the procedures of Nationwide included 
recommending mutual funds to customers and purchasing shares in the 
funds on their behalf, and the inspection related to a registration 
statement and quarterly reports filed with the Board through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the letter from Nationwide appeared to 
constitute an unlawful representation. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter instructing 
Nationwide to cease and desist from making such representations and 
to take affirmative action to correct any false impressions that may 
have resulted from representations already made. 
Governor Robertson suggested omitting the last paragraph of 
the proposed letter. 
He felt that little would be gained by attempting 
to require that the corporation contact persons who had received 
material containing apparent representations. 
Mr. Solomon agreed. 
The inclusion of such a paragraph could 
possibly lead to debates that the Board would not want to pursue. 
There being agreement that the paragraph in question should 
be deleted, the letter was approved unanimously with the understanding 

552 
2/17/69 
-12-
that copies would be sent to the Reserve Banks for their information. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Revision of Form F.R. U-l. 
There had been distributed a memo-
randum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated January 31, 
1969, submitting for the Board's consideration a revised Form F.R. U-l, 
the "purpose statement" banks must obtain from borrowers in connection 
with every stock-secured loan. 
The revision had been worked out in consultation with a group 
of officials of Robert Morris Associates. 
The Reserve Banks had been 
invited to comment, and the Division believed that the proposed revision 
met almost all of the objections that had been noted. 
It was believed 
that the new form, which mainly involved changes in style and language, 
would be easier for banks and their customers to work with than the 
present one. 
It was suggested that the new form, if approved, be made 
optional for a period of one year and compulsory thereafter. 
Reproduc-
tion proofs would be sent to the Reserve Banks so that an initial 
supply could be made available to the commercial banks, who would 
thereafter be expected to make arrangements to obtain their own supplies. 
It was also recommended that the Board authorize similar action 
with respect to Form F.R. G-3, 
used in connection with Regulation G. 
The revision of the forms was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that a notice would be published 
in the Federal Register. 

553 
2/17/69 
-12-
Oral presentation. 
Mr. Holland reported that question had 
been raised concerning the scheduling of oral presentation with respect 
to proposed amendments to Regulations G and U regarding margin require-
ments on loans made on mutual fund shares. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the presentation would 
be scheduled for February 26, 1969, with the understanding that a 
notice would be published in the Federal Register, a press release 
would be issued, and the parties directly involved in the presentation 
would be contacted. 
Request of Senator Proxmire. 
Governor Robertson reported that 
he had received a letter from Senator Proxmire dated February 5, 1969, 
regarding closing costs in connection with the purchase of homes. 
The 
Senator urged the Board to include standards in the truth in lending 
regulations to protect the home purchaser and requested that an investi-
gation be made by the Board into the operations of title insurance 
companies. 
Governor Robertson then read a proposed reply. 
The reply stated, 
among other things, that it would be inappropriate for the Board to 
undertake an investigation such as proposed. 
Governor Maisel commented that information of the kind sought 
by the Senator should more appropriately be supplied by the Department 
of Housing and Urban Development. 

554 
2/17/69 
-12-
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the Board should 
strongly resist the tendency to assign to it additional duties in 
the area of consumer protection and that this position should be 
clearly stated in the reply to Senator Proxmire. 
It was then agreed that the draft reply would be revised 
along the lines suggested for the Board's further consideration. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. 
It was noted that the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis had acted, subject to review and determina-
tion by the Board of Governors, to establish a discount rate of 6 per 
cent (rather than 5-1/2 per cent) and that the directors of the Dallas 
Bank had acted to establish a discount rate of 5-3/4 per cent. 
Letters 
had been received from the two Banks and were being made available to 
the members of the Board. 
Members of the staff reviewed current financial developments 
against the background of the objectives of monetary policy, the essence 
of their comments being that developments seemed to be consistent, for 
the most part, with those objectives. 
They cited several reasons why 
it appeared to them that discount rate action at this particular time 
might not be appropriate. 
The Chairman then suggested that consideration of the discount 
rate proposals that were before the Board be held in abeyance, and there 
was agreement with this suggestion. 

2/17/69 
-13-
Unanimous approval was given to the establishment without 
change by the Federal Re serve Bank of Boston on February 10 and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and Kansas City on February 13, 1969, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Euro-dollars. 
Governor Brimmer reported a recent conversation 
in which a prominent European central bank official and representatives 
of the Bank for International Settlements had expressed concern about 
the extent to which U.S. banks might engage in the borrowing of Euro-
dollars as an offset to the loss of certificates of deposits and had 
suggested that consideration might be given to a relaxation of the 
interest rate ceilings on large-denomination CD's. 
Governor Brimmer said he did not share that view. 
He favored 
retention of the current ceilings and would prefer to attack the problem 
of Euro-dollar borrowings by direct action. 
There followed some discussion of the likely reaction to a 
move along such lines and the manner in which it might be announced. 
Chairman Martin urged that the matter be thought through carefully. 
The objective, as he saw it, was to disinflate without deflating, and 
a delicate and difficult operation was involved. 
Market response to 
actions that might be taken by the Board required consideration, 

5 5 6 
> VsO'f 
• : • 2/17/69 
-14-
along with all other aspects of the situation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
D F T
H
E 
Item N o . 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/17/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2 0 , 1969 
Organization Committee, 
First Citizens Bank of Billings, 
Billings, Montana. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of First Citizens Bank of 
Billings, Billings, Montana, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis, effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of its 
depositors, and except with the permission of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such bank 
shall not cause or permit any change to be made in the 
general character of its business or in the scope of the 
corporate powers exercised by it at the time of admission 
to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $320,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$480,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H , regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

First Citizens Bank of Billings 
2. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this 1 etter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. 
The board of directors should also adopt, 
at the same time, a resolution ratifying the action which has been 
taken in the bank's behalf in making application for membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
A certified copy of each resolution, 
together with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. 
When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
Reserve Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will 
be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with the 
Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives 
of your bank means for making the services of the System most useful 
to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
0 F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , P . C. 
5 0 5 5 1 
Item N o 
2/17/69 
O F F I C E OF T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 19, 1969. 
The Honorable Leonor K . S u l l i v a n , 
Committee on Banking and C u r r e n c y , 
House of R e p r e s e n t a t i v e s , 
W a s h i n g t o n , D . C . 
20515 
Dear M r s . Sullivan: 
In my letter of January 2 2 , 1969, I stated that we 
would ask the Federal Reserve Banks if they knew of abuses such 
as described by the Washington Post in a series of a r t i c l e s , 
copies of which you provided with your letter of January 1 0 , 1969. 
A copy of the letter you sent to M i . Robert L . R a n d , Acting 
Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank B o a r d , was also sent to 
Reserve Banks and their comments requested. 
With the one exception 
described b e l o w , our canvass of the Reserve Banks has revealed no 
situations involving State member banks comparable to those listed 
in the Washington Post. 
A t the same time, we recognize the 
limitations of the information available to us on this subject. 
Examinations of State member banks may not reveal abuses of this 
kind. 
They do reveal loans for real estate investment, but they 
will not necessarily reveal whether the investments are for 
worthy purposes or questionable p u r p o s e s . 
With respect to the questions raised in your letter to 
M r . R a n d , the following answers are submitted, formulated in 
relation to State member b a n k s , as to which the Board has 
regulatory r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s . 
For convenience the question is 
r e p e a t e d . 
Q l . 
How prevalent in the savings and loan institutions 
over which the Home Loan Bank Board and/or the FSLIC has 
jurisdiction are there cases like the actions involving the now 
defunct Republic Savings and Loan Association? 
A l . 
As stated e a r l i e r , cases involving State member 
banks that m i g h t be comparable to those involving the Republic 
Savings and Loan Association a r e , with the one e x c e p t i o n , unknown 
to us. 

The Honorable Leonor K . Sullivan 
- 2 -
sw 
Q 2 . 
Within the examination and supervisory procedure 
of the Home Loan Bank Board, what standards are set, and what 
instructions are given to the examiners to detect such abuses 
and when discovered what remedial or punitive measures are taken? 
A 2 . 
While the Reserve Banks issue instructions to 
examiners on methods of analyzing bank loans, these instructions 
are aimed primarily at determining credit quality and conformity 
with the provisions of applicable Federal and State statutes. 
Examiners are instructed to inquire into and comment on "all 
unsatisfactory aspects of the bank's policies and practices 
regarding real estate loans, including those pertaining to: 
(a) the size of both individual loans and the total portfolio; 
(b) geographic distribution; (c) major trends in the account; 
(d) recent significant changes in equity requirements, repayment 
terms, or other provisions; (e) junior liens; (f) potential other 
real estate; (g) methods of obtaining appraisals; (h) adequacy of 
supporting documents; (i) conformance with provisions of law; 
(j) availability of financial information where commercial 
properties are involved; (k) volume and severity of delinquencies; 
(1) weaknesses in collection procedure; and (m) adequacy of the 
overall administration of the portfolio." 
As we have mentioned, 
we cannot be sure that the examination process will automatically 
alert us to any participation by a State member bank in exploiting 
home buyers in slum areas. 
But loans for that purpose, in addition 
to being socially undesirable, are often of inferior or marginal 
credit quality or in violation of law, and bank examination does, 
therefore, offer some protection against such abuses. 
Banks 
generally are responsive to criticisms and take steps to dis-
continue unsatisfactory lending procedures. 
Q 3 . 
What are the existing laws or regulations which 
authorize the Home Loan Bank Board and the FSLIC to prevent these 
situations from occurring and what are the penalties? 
A 3 . 
Aside from the examination procedures discussed 
above, cease-and-desist proceedings under the Financial Institutions 
Supervisory Act of 1966 are available to prevent banks from 
engaging in unsafe or unsound practices or violations of law. 
The Act does not specify a penalty for violations of such orders, 
but authorizes the Board to apply to the local Federal District 
Court for an order compelling compliance. 
Q 4 . 
Please provide me with a detailed analysis of all 
instances in the last five years where your examiners have found 
abuses similar to those uncovered here in Washington. 

The Honorable Leonor K . Sullivan 
-3-
A 4 . 
One case comparable to those noted in the articles 
involved a medium-sized bank which for several years actively 
financed various home improvement operations and finance companies 
that were aiding speculators to dispose of ghetto properties at 
inflated prices. 
The financing took a variety of forms: 
some 
real estate loans were arranged by brokers and made directly to 
the borrower with the speculator taking junior liens on the 
property for an amount representing the difference between the 
sale price and the bank's loan. 
Other real estate loans were 
made to the speculators with liens on properties sold on land 
contracts held as collateral; others represented debt consolidation 
loans collateraled by junior liens that had originated as part of 
the purchase price. 
Many home improvement loans purchased by the 
bank and collateraled by junior liens originated as part of 
package deals in the sale of deteriorated properties. 
These 
loans were criticized by examiners, the bank incurred substantial 
losses and no longer engages in such financing. 
To guard against 
a repetition of this experience, the bank is kept under close 
surveillance. 
Q 5 . 
If there is other lack of adequate legal authority 
to cope with this problem as far as your agency is concerned, what 
recommendations would you make to prevent these situations from 
reoccurring? 
A 5 . 
We believe that the most promising approach would 
be to increase flows of private capital into poverty areas. 
We 
are now considering possible draft legislative proposals to revise 
the Federal banking laws so as to enable member banks to establish 
wholly-owned subsidiary corporations to assist in meeting the 
special financing needs of poverty areas, including needs for 
equity capital and long-term credit to provide job opportunities 
and housing. 
Q 6 . 
Provide me with a copy of all instructions to your 
examiners and supervisors which direct them to make inquiry into 
the books and records of the savings and loan under examination 
that would determine when situations such as described in the 
enclosed articles exist. 
A 6 . 
Standard examination practice requires that loan 
documentation be checked to determine conformity with the statutes. 
With respect to real estate loans, this involves checking the note, 
lien instrument, title search insurance, and signed appraisal report 
which must antedate and support the loan. 
A bank's records rarely 
contain information as to race, religion, or color of the borrower. 
See also answer to question 2. 
Sincerely yours, 
W m . M c C . Martin, Jr. 
J 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item N o . 3 
2/17/69 
of cow-
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
^LRtsf: 
February 17, 1969 
M r . Herman P . Eberharter, Jr., 
Associate General Counsel, 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, 
2924 Columbia Pike, 
Arlington, Virginia. 
22204 
Dear M r . Eberharter: 
This refers to your letter of January 14, 1969, transmitting 
an application for a determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 respecting the planned acquisition by 
First Virginia Bankshares Corporation ("First Virginia") of the stock 
of First Trust Company, a proposed "pure" trust company - that is, a 
fiduciary corporation that will not accept deposits of any kind. 
It is understood that First Trust Company would be a Virginia 
corporation and you have informed the Board that under Virginia law a 
"pure" trust company cannot be chartered; to engage in the trust business, 
a company's corporate powers must include the power to engage in deposit 
banking as well as the trust business. 
However, First Trust Company 
would perform only those functions authorized to the trust departments 
of banks organized under the law of Virginia, and its sole office would 
be on the authorized banking premises of one of First Virginia's sub-
sidiary banks. 
Since First Trust Company would not be " . . . a n institution 
that accepts deposits that the depositor has a legal right to withdraw 
on demand . . . .", it would not be a "bank" as defined in section 2(c) 
of the Bank Holding Company A c t , and therefore acquisition of its stock 
by First Virginia would not be subject to section 3 of the A c t . 
The Board has ruled that, insofar as Federal law is concerned, 
a member bank (including a national bank) may purchase for its own 
account all of the shares (but not less than all) of a corporation to 
perform, at locations at which the bank is authorized to engage in 
business, functions that the bank is empowered to perform directly. 
1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 681-82. 
Thus, insofar as Federal law is 
concerned, a bank may incorporate its trust department, provided the 

563 
M r . Herman P . Eberharter, J r . 
-2-
trust company subsidiary performs its functions exclusively at locations 
at which the parent bank is authorized to engage in business. 
Section 4(c)(5) of the Holding Company Act permits a holding company 
to acquire and hold "shares which are of the kinds and amounts eligible 
for investment by national banking associations under the provisions of 
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes." 
Accordingly, the Board concludes 
that section 4(c)(5) permits First Virginia to acquire and hold all of 
the stock of First Trust Company. 
This conclusion, of course, is 
limited to the effect of Federal law on the situation. 
It is emphasized that this interpretation of the Holding 
Company Act is based on the facts summarized herein. 
If these facts 
should change in any material respect, the exemption provided by 
section 4(c)(5) from the prohibition of section 4 might no longer be 
applicable. 
Thus, it would be advisable for First Virginia to inform 
the Board in advance of any significant proposed changes in the 
operation of First Trust Company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
564 
Item N o . 4 
2/17/69 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 19, 1969. 
The Honorable Richard W . McLaren, 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Antitrust Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D . C . 
20530 
Dear M r . McLaren: 
This refers to an application filed with the Board of 
Governors on behalf of First Bankshare Association, Lewiston, Maine, 
pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), for the Board's prior approval of action 
whereby Applicant would, become a bank holding company. 
Notice of 
the Board's receipt of this application was contained in the Board's 
letter to the Antitrust Division, dated January 13, 1969. 
Pursuant to established practice, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston conducted a field inquiry with respect to certain of 
the competitive aspects involved in the application. 
In the course 
of this inquiry, interviews were had with officials of banks 
considered to be in competition with the proposed bank subsidiaries 
of the Applicant holding company. 
Since one of the banks proposed 
to be acquired by Applicant - The Peoples National Bank of Farmington -
is located in Farmington, the President of First National Bank of 
Farmington was interviewed. 
We are advised that this individual 
stated that there were in existence, or in prospect, agreements between 
and among banks in Farmington and banks in Rumford and Livermore Falls 
as to their respective market areas and as to the areas in which the 
banks would or would not compete. 
The President of First National 
Bank of Farmington is reported to have stated that a determination as 
to whether his bank would open a branch office in Livermore Falls 
would depend on the outcome of discussions with the bank in that city 
and on any agreement reached on how expected business growth in the 
area would be divided. 
He reportedly added that his bank would not go 
into Livermore Falls unless it was invited. 

5i:S 
The Honorable Richard W . McLaren 
-2 
It should be noted that, with respect to First Bankshare 
Association's application now pending before the Board, we have no 
evidence indicating that Applicant or its proposed subsidiary banks 
are involved in any market sharing or trade restriction agreement 
that may exist. 
The possible antitrust implication involved in the 
reported conversation is the basis for the Board's report of this 
matter. 
Regarding this report, we wish to advise that field inquiries 
of the nature conducted on this application are undertaken with the 
understanding made known to interviewees that, where considered appro-
priate, comments and opinions solicited in aid of the System's proces-
sing of an application will be retained in confidence. 
For this 
reason we urge that any investigation that your office may undertake 
in this matter be conducted so as to assure, to the extent consistent 
with your statutory responsibilities, cooperation of interviewees in 
future cases where facts and views are sought by System representatives. 
Should any investigation you may initiate in the subject case neces-
sitate discussion with System representatives, it is suggested that 
you contact M r . Laurence H . Stone, Vice President and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, who has knowledge of this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C . Holland 
Robert C . Holland, 
Secretary. 

5 t ] 6 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• 
F 
T H E 
Item N o . 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/17/69 
UJ 
I • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 18, 1969. 
M r . James C. H a y e s , President, 
Nationwide Investment Corporation, 
404 North Roxbury Drive, 
Beverly Hills, California. 
90210 
Dear M r . Hayes: 
It has come to the attention of the Board of Governors that 
Nationwide Investment Corporation, in a letter over your signature, 
as President, has made certain representations regarding the outcome 
of an inspection of its business operations, conducted during the 
week of October 14, 1968, by personnel authorized by the Board of 
Governors pursuant to § 17(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78q(b)), and regarding the quality of such operations. 
Specifically, it was represented that 
"[a]pproximately a month ago, we were through a full 
Federal Reserve Bank Board [sic] audit and, on comple-
tion of same, every indication was given as to the 
correctness of our procedures. 
We w e r e , in fact, 
complimented on having the best records and controls 
that such auditors had seen to date." 
Section 26 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 
§ 78z) makes it unlawful to represent that action or failure to act by 
the Board of Governors, with respect to transactions, statements, or 
reports it has examined, is to be construed to mean that such transac-
tions have been approved or that such statements or reports are true 
on their face or not false or misleading. 
As explained to you by the personnel who visited your premises, 
the Board's inspection related, among other matters, to transactions in 
mutual fund shares, and to the registration statement and quarterly re-
ports filed by Nationwide with the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
and was conducted for the purpose of gatheiing information that is 
necessary in order to enable the Board to perform its functions under 
the A c t . 

Mr. James C. Hayes, President 
-2-
5 0 7 
As you are aware, a willful violation of any provision of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any rule or regulation there-
under may subject a person to criminal liability under the Act. 
Accordingly, since the above-quoted language appears to constitute 
a representation that is unlawful under section 26, Nationwide 
Investment Corporation, its directors, officers, employees, and 
agents are hereby requested to cease and desist from the making of 
these or similar representations. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
