MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 24, 1968 

0"% 
- 
M 
fr^t 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 24, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 

8548 
9/24/68 
-2-
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Donovan, and Kline of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. After a discussion during which 
Governor Mitchell expressed some doubt, based on statements he had 
heard at a recent meeting of Latin American central bank governors, 
that the proposed investment would be favorably regarded by the 
Argentine authorities, even though their formal approval apparently 
was not required, unanimous approval was given to an application by 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, 
for permission to acquire, directly or indirectly, stock of Banco 
Argentino de Comercio, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
Unanimous approval also was given to a request by Chase 
that its subsidiary, Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
New York, New York, be permitted to acquire the stock of a finance 
company to be formed in Argentina. 
A copy of the letter sent to Chase pursuant to the foregoing 
actions is attached as Item No. 1. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, had applied for approval to 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting stock to be issued by 
First Wisconsin National Bank of Greenfield, Greenfield, Wisconsin, 
a proposed new bank. 
The Comptroller of the Currency had given preliminary approval 
to the establishment of the new bank and therefore recommended that 

O . J 1 / 
9/24/68 
-3-
the application be approved. The Research Department of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago likewise recommended approval, but the 
Reserve Bank's Bank Examinations Department recommended denial, as 
did the Board's Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking 
Markets Section. 
The recommendations for denial were based largely on the 
dominance of First Wisconsin in the greater Milwaukee area and the 
view that organization of an independent bank at or near the proposed 
location would be beneficial from the competitive standpoint. 
Such 
an application had in fact been filed with the Comptroller of the 
Currency by an independent group. However, the Board was informed 
at the beginning of today's meeting that the application had been 
denied, reportedly on the ground that there was no need for more than 
one bank at the location in question at this time. The staff expressed 
the view, however, that the area was sufficiently attractive that 
another application was likely to be forthcoming. 
The arguments for and against the application were debated 
at some length, and several members of the Board noted that in their 
opinion the case was a close one. It was pointed out, on the one 
hand, that establishment of the proposed bank would seem justified 
on the basis of convenience and needs and that it was a serious step 
to deny the right of expansion de novo, as contrasted with expansion 
through acquisition of existing banks. 
It was suggested that the 

9/24/68 
-4-
proposed move by First Wisconsin might be likened in some respects 
to the establishment of a branch, and it was also suggested that 
according to some measures, stressing smaller deposits in a more 
localized area, the degree of dominance of First Wisconsin might be 
regarded as less than would appear from the use of conventional 
standards. Further, the case for denial was argued to be weaker 
than it would have been if a worthy competing application was now 
pending. 
On the other hand, it was brought out that the degree of 
dominance of First Wisconsin, measured by almost any standard, could 
not be ignored and that potential competition would be enhanced by 
the establishment of a bank of different ownership at the location 
in question, whereas approval of the current application might fore-
close the opportunity for establishment of such a bank. Since the 
area appeared to be attractive according to available evidence, 
including the findings of the Comptroller, it was judged likely that 
a new banking office would soon be forthcoming, perhaps by a refiling 
of the application that had been denied, so that the needs of the 
public would be served. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the application was 
denied. Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration and that a dissenting statement also 
would be prepared. 

' 
> ' 
-
kJO1 
9/24/68 
-5-
Discount study. Pursuant to Mr. Holland's suggestion in a 
memorandum of September 20, 1968, unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks (except Kansas City, 
in view of other communication with that Bank) requesting that reports 
be submitted to the Board, and copies exchanged among the Reserve 
Banks, with respect to comments received following publication of the 
Steering Committee Report on the Fundamental Reappraisal of the 
Discount Mechanism. Analysis of the usability of the proposed seasonal 
borrowing privilege by various categories of member banks, along the 
lines of a study by the Chicago Bank, was also suggested in the letter, 
a copy of which is attached as Item No. 2. 
There was, in this connection, also some discussion of the 
projected time schedule for publication for comment of a draft 
revision of Regulation A , Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve 
Banks, particularly in light of an indication of Congressional 
interest, and it was generally agreed that the idea of publishing such 
a draft for comment around the end of this year appeared reasonable. 
Operations subsidiaries and loan production offices. There had 
been distributed copies of a statement to be presented by Chairman 
Martin before the House Banking and Currency Committee on September 25, 
1968, with reference to the announcement by the Board in August of its 
conclusion that Federal law does not prohibit a State member bank from 
establishing operations subsidiaries and its position that a loan 

9/24/68 
-6-
production office established by a State member bank would no longer 
be considered a branch if the office engaged solely in preliminary 
and servicing functions in connection with loans approved and dis-
bursed at the bank's main office or a branch. 
The statement was regarded as generally satisfactory and 
the suggestions made with respect to it were principally of an 
editorial nature. It was understood that the statement would be 
reviewed in the light of those suggestions and it would then be 
presented in a final form satisfactory to the Chairman. 
(Note: A 
copy of the statement as presented has been placed in the Board's 
files.) 
Governor Robertson stated that he would make available to 
the other Board members shortly copies of the statement he intended 
to present (in which Governor Brimmer would join) reflecting the 
minority position. 
Minneapolis building program. In a letter of August 14, 1968, 
sent following a meeting with members of the Board's Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, President Galusha of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis requested guidance on four 
basic questions relating to the Bank's head office building program. 
These had to do with the general design concept of the proposed new 
building, the proposed budget, the timing of capital expenditures, 
and the terms of sale of the present building. 

viii 
9/24/68 
-7-
Pursuant to recommendations in a memorandum from the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated September 13, 1968, 
unanimous approval was given to a telegram to President Galusha in 
the form attached as Item No. 3 covering the questions that he had 
raised. 
Foreign credit restraint program. Governor Brimmer summar-
ized for the information of the Board a discussion with regard to 
the foreign credit restraint program that had occurred at a meeting 
of the executive committee of the Cabinet Committee on the Balance 
of Payments. He noted particularly that some sentiment still existed 
for an exemption for credits over one year extended for the financing 
of exports, but in his opinion such an exemption was not likely to be 
endorsed by the Cabinet Committee. 
One-bank holding company question. The Chairman caused to be 
distributed copies of a memorandum of today's date in which Mr. 
Holland outlined materials that it was felt the staff might usefully 
be asked to prepare in contemplation of further consideration by the 
Board of the one-bank holding company question. 
It was generally agreed that the materials described would be 
helpful and the staff was requested to proceed with their preparation, 
it being suggested that consultants might be utilized to supplement 
staff resources. 

9/24/68 
-8-
Governor Maisel mentioned three other aspects of the matter 
that he considered worthy of study, and the Chairman requested that 
those items be added to Mr. Holland's list. 
Salary structures at Cleveland Bank. On July 2, 1968, the 
Board had approved adjustment of grades 1 through 11 of the salary 
structures applicable to employees of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland and its branches but deferred action in respect to grades 
12 through 16 pending additional discussion between the Bank and the 
Division of Personnel Administration. A revised proposal for those 
grades had now been submitted and approval was recommended by the 
Division in a memorandum of September 19, 1968. 
Pursuant to that recommendation, unanimous approval was 
given to the revised proposal. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

, of C.OUj 
•f^LRE^' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/24/68 
A D D R E S S 
D F f l C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 24, 1968 
The Chase Manhattan Bank, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the requests contained in your letter of 
June 28, 1968, the Board of Governors, pursuant to Section 25 and 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, grants consent (1) for The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), ("CMB"), New York, to purchase and hold, directly 
1
L
 
^
C t l y
' through Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
( CMOBC ), New York; Arcturus Investment and Development Limited, ("Arcturus") 
Montreal, Canada; Overseas Shares Corporation, ("Overseas"), New York; Pan 
American Shares Corporation, ("Pan American"), New York; and one or two new 
corporations, ("New Corporations"), to be organized under New York law, up 
to 80 per cent of the stock of Banco Argentino de Comercia, ("Banco"), Buenos 
ALres, Argentina, and (2) for CMOBC to acquire up to 100 per cent of the 
stock of a finance company, ("finance company"), to be organized in Argentina, 
at a total cost of approximately $7,750,000, provided that approximately 
$2,600,000 be invested in such shares within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of shares 
of Banco by CMB is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CMB shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any shares 
of stock in Banco if Banco at any time fails to restrict 
its activities to those permissible to a corporation in 
which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Fede ral Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if Banco establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Argentina or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMB will fur-
nish the Board with such reports regarding the activities of 
Banco as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Banco be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the same 
manner as if Banco were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

O u t } 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
-2-
(4) That CMB and its subsidiaries shall not carry on their 
books the shares of Banco at a net amount in excess of 
their proportionate share of the book capital accounts 
of Banco, after giving effect to the elimination of all 
known losses. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of shares 
of finance company by CMOBC is granted subject to the same conditions pre-
scribed above relating to the purchase of shares of Banco by CMB. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) above so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Banco or finance company in 
Argentina in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested that 
the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, with copies of Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws 
of Banco. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of shares 
of Banco by Overseas, Pan American, and New Corporations is granted subject 
to the condition that Overseas, Pan American and New Corporations will 
restrict their activities to the holding of shares of foreign banks pursuant 
to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M 
and that, when required by the Board, CMB will cause Overseas, Pan American 
and New Corporations (a) to permit examiners selected or auditors approved 
by the Board to examine Overseas, Pan American and New Corporations, and (b) 
to furnish the Board with such reports as it may require from time to time. 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the further condition that CMB will 
dispose of its shares of Overseas, Pan American, and/or New Corporations if 
CMB is advised by the Board that their holding is inappropriate. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investments now being approved will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of CMB and its subsidiaries and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item 
9/24/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
^TreS^.' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 25, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
We expect that your Bank has been receiving a variety of 
comments from member banks and others on the recently published report, 
"Reappraisal of the Federal Reserve Discount Mechanism." 
Preparatory 
to final consideration of the proposal contained in this report, it 
would be helpful if your staff could prepare and forward to us a 
report on the comments received in order that we can be aware of these 
in our deliberations. 
It might also be worthwhile if each Reserve 
Bank would send copies of its report to the other District Banks, so 
that we can all see the scope of comment being received around the 
country. 
In this connection, it might be noted that on September 12, 
1968, a number of leading academic economists met with the Board to 
discuss, among other subjects, their views on the discount study. As 
soon as a suitable summary of that discussion can be completed, copies 
will be supplied to each of the Reserve Banks. 
One of the comments we here at the Board have heard from a 
number of sources has concerned the definitional limits on the seasonal 
borrowing privilege. In an attempt to focus on how various adaptations 
of the current proposal would affect its usability by various categories 
of member banks, the research staff of the Chicago Bank has recently 
completed a report summarizing and analyzing the results of a number of 
empirical tests. A copy of this report is enclosed. If your District 
is one of those in which seasonal credit problems are fairly common and 
you have the operational capability to do so, it would be most helpful 
if your staff could prepare a report similar to that enclosed. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
EXCEPT KANSAS CITY 

KJO 
Item No. 3 
T E L E G R A M 
9/2U/68 
' , r r5G 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
September 25, 1968. 
GALUSHA - MINNEAPOLIS 
Reur August 14 letter raising questions on your building program. 
A. In light of your assurance that proposed structure is 
entirely feasible from an engineering point of view, Board 
notes without objection the general design concept. If 
extensive use of glass is being considered for tower building, 
we would be interested in knowing how various associated problems 
such as temperature control, waterproofing, cleaning, and differ-
ential maintenance costs will be resolved. 
B. Although the proposed building will be moderately more expen-
sive than other recently completed Federal Reserve buildings, 
cost does not appear unreasonable. Every effort should be 
made to hold costs down at least to budget now proposed, and 
economies may be possible during subsequent planning phases. 
C. In view of conditions associated with purchase and construction 
contracts for this project and impending sale of existing build-
ing, Board authorizes you to proceed in accordance with present 
time schedule subject to subsequent approval procedures covered 
in outstanding instructions. 
D. Board notes without objection possibility of your accepting 
installment payments for present building. Bank is free to 
make any prudent arrangement regarding payment for existing 

GALUSHA - MINNEAPOLIS 
- 2 -
D. 
(continued) 
building which is acceptable to your Board of Directors. It 
might be well to note in any sale contract involving installment 
payments that full amount of balance referred to in item D-4 of 
your letter would be due and payable no later than a specified date 
regardless of the percentage of building that is rented at that 
time. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

0 D 0 5 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
9/24/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 24, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
As requested in your letter of September 12, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minima and maxima salaries for Grades 12 
through 16 of the Head Office and Branch employee salary structures, 
effective October 1, 1968: 
Cleveland 
Cincinnati Branch 
Pittsburgh Branch 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
12 
$ 8,723 
$11,765 
$ 8,294 
$11,180 
$ 8,359 
$11,323 
13 
9,724 
13,156 
9,230 
12,506 
9,347 
12,623 
14 
10,790 
14,612 
10,283 
13,871 
10,400 
13,988 
15 
11,973 
16,185 
11,401 
15,379 
11,505 
15,561 
16 
13,234 
17,914 
12,623 
16,991 
12,727 
17,173 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees within 
the limits specified for the grades in which their respective positions 
are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minimum of 
their grades as a result of these structure increases should be brought 
within appropriate ranges by January 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
