MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 4, 1968 

123 G 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Thursday, April 4, 
1968. The meeting was held in the Board Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Plotkin, Porter, and Shuter 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Eisenbeis and Lawrence of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Administra-
tion 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 

1237 
4/4/68 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets and 
assumption of liabilities of The Evans Savings Association, Akron, 
Ohio, by The Barberton State Bank, Barberton, Ohio. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of The 
Evans Savings Association, Akron, Ohio, by The Barberton 
State Bank, Barberton, Ohio, would eliminate present and 
potential competition between them for time and savings 
accounts and mortgage loans. At the same time, the sub-
stitution of a full-service bank for the present savings 
association might stimulate competition in the areas 
currently served by offices of the latter institution. 
The overall effect on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Governor Maisel noted that Transcontinental Investing Corpo-
ration, New York, New York, a diversified financial corporation, owned 
more than 90 per cent of the outstanding stock of Evans Savings Asso-
ciation. He recalled that in 1967, during the Board's consideration 
of the proposal of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire 
The Springfield Bank, Springfield, Ohio, it was brought out that 
Springfield Bank had previously been controlled by Transcontinental 
Investing Corporation, which had pursued certain questionable practices 
with respect to that bank. This raised the question whether the 
corporation should be permitted to acquire control of another bank. 
(As a first step in the current proposal, Transcontinental would 
acquire the stock of Barberton State Bank.) He wondered whether the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was aware of this background. 

1238 
4/4/68 
-2-
It was understood that the staff would develop additional 
information, following which the report on competitive factors would 
be considered further. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, New 
1 
York, granting consent to the acquisition 
by that bank and by Banca d'America e d1 
Italia, Milan, Italy, of additional shares 
of Financial Corporation for Overseas Coun-
tries, Geneva, Switzerland. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
2 
relating to whether section 32 of the Banking 
Act of 1933 would prohibit individuals who 
were directors of member banks from serving 
at the same time as directors of a newly 
organized open-end investment company that 
reportedly did not intend to make additional 
offerings of its shares after an initial pub-
lic offering. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
3 
Francisco authorizing changes in proposed 
real estate transactions approved on Janu-
ary 5, 1967. 
Letter to the Civil Service Commission sub- 
4 
mitting revised Board rules regarding employee 
responsibilities and conduct for approval by 
the Commission prior to publication in the 
Federal Register. 
Let ter to the Secretary of the Retirement System 
5 
of the Federal Reserve Banks approving an amend-
ment to the Rules and Regulations of the Retire-
ment System. 

1239 
4/4/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia approving a revision of the 
employee salary structure. 
6 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York noting the assignment of Spencer S. 
Marsh, Jr., Market Adviser, to undertake 
a mission to the Philippines. 
7 
In connection with Item No. 2, it was understood that the 
substance of the Board's letter would be transmitted to all Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
proposed amendment would raise from $6,600 to $7,800 the wage base 
in excess of which Bank Plan members would be required to contribute 
to the Retirement System. This upward adjustment would follow the 
pattern set by the Social Security amendments of 1967, which became 
effective January 1, 1968. The ad hoc committee appointed by the 
Presidents' Conference for the purpose of studying the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks had before it recommendations 
of a firm of consulting actuaries selected to review the Retirement 
System, and it was possible that action on those recommendations 
could revise the entire concept of the Retirement System. However, 
Governor Maisel said, he would go along with the recommendation that 
the present amendment to the Rules and Regulations be approved at 
this time. 
Entry of Bank of America into Virgin Islands. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated March 29, 1968, from the Division of 
With respect to Item No. 5, Governor Maisel noted that the 

1240 
4/4/68 
-2-
Examiriations relating to a request from the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency for a competitive factor report on a proposed merger of Bank 
of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, and New St. Croix Savings Bank, Christiansted, St. Croix, 
U.S. Virgin Islands. Bank of America had requested permission to 
establish two branches incident to the merger. Letters of protest 
against the proposed merger and against the entry of Bank of America 
into the Virgin Islands by any other means had been received from the 
Virgin Islands National Bank and its parent, First Pennsylvania Bank-
ing and Trust Company. The Government Secretary, who was also Chair-
man of the Banking Board of the Virgin Islands, had requested that a 
survey of the local banking situation be conducted to assist the 
territorial government in its decision on the proposed merger. In 
addition, the Comptroller had inquired whether the Board was prepared 
to approve the two branches of Bank of America. 
The memorandum reviewed the banking situation in the Virgin 
Islands and commented on the various alternatives available. 
Mr. Dahl indicated that it was difficult to see the need for 
an on-the-spot survey of banking conditions in the Virgin Islands in 
view of the similar study made in 1963. There appeared to be no firm 
reason to object to the entry of Bank of America into the Virgin 
Islands, and its entry would increase the number of banking alterna-
tives. He suggested that the Board defer action on Bank of America^ 
application for branches pending a decision by the Comptroller on the 
proposed merger. 

12-11 
4/4/68 
-6-
Discussion revealed agreement on the part of the Board members 
that an additional survey of banking conditions in the Virgin Islands 
would add little to the information presently available. It was under-
stood that a letter to the Chairman of the Banking Board reflecting 
this viewpoint would be prepared for Board consideration as well as a 
draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger. 
Policy record entry. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Broida dated April 3, 1968, submitting the policy record entry 
covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on January 9, 
1968. The entry had been approved by the Board on March 25, 1968, and 
no further suggestions for changes had been received. It was proposed 
to release the entry to the press on Monday, April 8. 
The release of the entry on April 8 was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On April 2, 1968, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
March 13, 1968, recommending that Fred B. Ruckdeschel, Economist 
in that Division, be granted up to four months' leave with pay, 
to enable him to devote full time to the completion of his doctoral 
dissertation. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Robert D. Heyde as Attorney, Legal Division, with basic annual 
salary at the rate of $13,507, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 

' y 
/w 
4/4/68 
-7-
Appointment 
Bernard E. Munk as Economist, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $14,857, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Reemployment following maternity leave 
Kathleen Thomas, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,123, effective March 18, 
1968; and transfer to the position of Secretary, Task Force-Special 
Regulations, with no change in salary, effective March 24, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Sylvia Stroman, Stenographer, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, effective April 1, 1968. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memo-
randum from the Controller and the Director 
of the Division of Personnel Administration 
dated April 2, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board on April 3 
the following policy relating to the pay-
ment of fees to consultants assigned to 
the Task Force-Special Regulations: 
(a) No fee payable while traveling to and from residence, 
although per diem will be paid in accordance with the 
Board's travel regulations; 
(b) No additional compensation for work beyond the normal 
8-hour day; 
(c) For work on weekends, fee will be paid if the consultant 
is officially requested to work. 
With respect to consultants already engaged, 
Governor Robertson also approved the recom-
mendation that travel to and from the city 
of residence be authorized, at Board expense, 
at reasonable intervals during any extended 
period of service in Washington. As to future 
consultant appointments, it was understood 
that the approximate frequency of trips home 
at Board expense would be noted at the time 
the arrangements were made. 

1213 
4/4/68 
-8-
On April 3, 1968, Governor Robertson 
noted on behalf of the Board memoranda 
advising that applications for retire-
ment had been filed by Wilson L. Hooff, 
Assistant General Counsel, and Raymond J. 
Collier, Assistant to the Director of the 
Division of Data Processing, effective 
April 27 and April 30, 1968, respectively. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board acceptance of the 
resignation of Jeannie Chipouras, 
Personnel Clerk in the Division of 
Personnel Administration, effective 
the close of business April 6, 1968. 
On the dates shown actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
On April 2, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Michael J. McEnroe 
as examiner and Peter N. Thomson as assistant 
examiner. 
8 
Letter to Bank of Sturgeon Bay, Sturgeon Bay, 
Wis consin, approving the establishment of a 
branch in the Village of Brussels. 
9 
On April 4, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to First Trust & Savings Bank of Kankakee, 
Kankakee, Illinois, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish an in-town branch. 
10 

1214 
• 
.1 r>.* f 
4/4/68 
-9-
On April 4, 1968 
• 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Item No. 
Letter to Farmers State Bank of Clifton, 
11 
Clifton, Texas, waiving the requirement of 
six months' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 

O c;r-
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1245 
4/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1968. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 3, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for: 
(1) Bank of America to purchase and hold approximately 
2,370 additional shares of Financial Corporation 
for Overseas Countries ("FCOC"), Geneva, Switzerland, 
at a cost of approximately US$574,000; and, 
(2) Banca d'America e d'Italia, Milan, Italy, to purchase 
and hold approximately 1,214 additional shares of 
FCOC at a cost of approximately US$293,000, provided 
such additional shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board has noted that as of February 29, 1968, the for-
eign loans and investments of your Corporation, Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation, and Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the for-
eign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is 
given with the understanding that those foreign loans and investments 
will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the 
guidelines; that the investment now being approved for Bank of America 
will be made within those guidelines; and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

of C.Ow •. 
*AL RES^r 
BOARD CDF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/4/68 
A O D R E S 9 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1968 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone, Vice President 
and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Stone: 
Reference is made to the request of Sullivan & Worcester, 
counsel to Omega Fund, Inc. (Fund), for the Board's views as to 
whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, as amended, prohibits 
two individuals, who are directors of member banks, from serving at 
the same time as directors of the Fund. Counsel's request and addi-
tional information were transmitted with your letters of March 8 and 
March 25, 1968. 
The Fund, a newly organized open-end investment company with 
an authorized capitalization of 10 million shares of Common Stock, 
$1.00 par value, has filed a registration statement with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission, under the Securities Act of 1933, which con-
templates the public offering of 3,500,000 shares through a group of 
underwriters headed by The First Boston Corporation. The shares will 
be issued to the underwriters at a closing to take place 10 to 14 days 
after the registration statement becomes effective. The Fund is an 
open-end" investment company, as defined in section 5(a)(1) of the 
Investment Company Act of 1940, since it will accept shares of its 
common stock for redemption at any time at net asset value. However, 
unlike most other open-end investment companies, it is represented 
that the Fund does not intend to make any further offerings of its 
shares. It is understood that this representation applies to both 
authorized but unissued shares and shares that may be redeemed by the 
Fund. First Boston has advised that upon completion of the under-
writing, it intends to make a wholesale market in such shares for 
brokers, dealers, and selected institutions so that such shares will 
be available for purchase and sale in the over-the-counter market. 
The Fund does, however, reserve the right to issue additional shares 
in connection with the acquisition of other investment companies or 
trusts whose assets consist of securities or cash, provided that no 
such acquisition may cause the net assets of the Fund to exceed 
$100 million. 

J
* > <f 
< 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone 
-2-
Section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, as amended, provides 
in relevant part that: 
"No officer, director, or employee of any corpor-
ation or unincorporated association, no partner or 
employee of any partnership, and no individual, pri-
marily engaged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, 
public sale, or distribution, at wholesale or retail, 
or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, 
or other similar securities, shall serve [at] the 
same time as an officer, director, or employee of any 
member bank. . 
For many years, the Board's position has been that an open-
end investment company is "primarily engaged in the issue . . . public 
sale, or distribution, . . . of securities" since the issuance and sale 
of its stock is essential to the maintenance of the company's size and 
to the continuance of operations without substantial contraction, and 
that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits an officer, director, 
or employee of any such company from serving at the same time as an 
officer, director, or employee of any member bank. However, the Board 
has further stated that "if . . . the company has ceased to issue or 
offer any of its stock for sale, the company would not be engaged in 
the issue or distribution of its stock and, therefore, the prohibition 
contained in section 32 would be inapplicable unless the company were 
primarily engaged in the underwriting, public sale or distribution of 
securities other than its own stock." 1951 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
645; 12 CFR 218.101. Moreover, the Board has also stated that the pro-
hibition contained in section 32 is not applicable where the company is 
only issuing its own stock for the limited period ordinarily required 
for corporate organization. 1961 Federal Reserve Bulletin 156; 12 CFR 
218.104. 
Accordingly, on the basis of the information presented, the 
Board has concluded that section 32 does not prohibit the individuals, 
who are directors of member banks, from serving at the same time as 
directors of the Fund. If, however, the Fund should subsequently pro-
pose to offer for sale additional shares with some frequency, the above 
conclusion might be inapplicable and it would be necessary for the Board 
to reconsider the matter. 
Counsel has also raised the question as to the applicability 
of section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 to this matter. Irrespective 
of the conclusion of the Board just expressed, there has been no infor-
mation presented which would suggest an "affiliate" relationship between 

Mr. Laurence H. Stone 
fV J ' ' 
-3-
i 
1248 
a member bank and the Fund as described in section 2(b) of the Banking 
Act of 1933. Accordingly, in the absence of additional information 
that might lead to a contrary conclusion, it appears that section 20 
is inapplicable to this situation. 
It would be appreciated if you would transmit the substance 
of these views to counsel to the Fund. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
Item No ! i V J 
L « A « D *,R E « P V , c i 
4/4/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 4, 1968. 
Merritt - San Francisco 
Reurlet March 12, 1968, Board authorizes your Bank's purchase 
of proposed property, about 4,440 square feet, at a price of 
$50 per square foot,, or approximately $222,000, instead of 
the price of $45 per square foot authorized by the Board on 
January 5, 1967. Board also authorizes sale of about 314 square 
feet of the Bank's parking lot at $50 per square foot. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

O c;r-
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
O F T H E 
Item No. 1250 
4/4/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1968. 
Mr . John Bowler, 
Office of the General Counsel, 
Civil Service Commission, 
Washington, D. C. 20415 
J : it- r 1 i. 
. i ' W. 
Dear Mr. Bowler: 
Submitted herewith is a copy of the Board's revised 
rules regarding Employee Responsibility and Conduct for 
approval by the Commission prior to publication in the Federal 
Register. 
You will note that two changes, both on page 15, 
have been made from the previous submission of December 13, 
1967, pursuant to the request of Mr. Thomas Templeton: 
(1) the phrase "at GS-13 and above, or equivalent" has been 
added to section 264.735-8(a), and (2) the phrase "each year, 
except when the Civil Service Commission authorizes a differ-
ent date upon a showing by the Board of the necessity there-
for" has been deleted from section 264.735-8(d). 
In addition, the Board's financial reporting form 
for consultants (Form F.R. 264.B) will be revised to require 
a statement as to estimated total days of government services 
as requested by Mr. Templeton. A copy will be furnished when 
available. 
Upon receipt of your approval, these regulations 
will be submitted to the Federal Register. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

1251 
BDARD DF 
GOVERNORS 
I T E M NO> 5 
• F T H E 
4 / 4 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1968 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, Secretary, 
Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
The Board of Governors has approved the amendment to 
paragraph (a) of Subdivision (1) of Section 5 of the Rules and 
Regulations of the Retirement System as approved by the Board 
of Trustees and reported in your letter dated March 18, 1968, 
as follows: 
(a) Each member of the Retirement System 
shall contribute at the rate of four per centum 
of that part of his basic salary received in a 
payroll period which is in excess of a rate of 
seventy-eight hundred dollars on an annual basis, 
for all service rendered to age sixty-five, sub-
ject to the provisions of Subdivision (3) of this 
section. 
It is understood that prior to becoming finally effec-
tive, this change will be referred to the District Director of 
the Internal Revenue Service for a determination that it does 
not adversely affect the current qualification of the Retirement 
System under Sections 401 (a) and 501 (a) of the Internal Revenue 
Code. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BDARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
4/4/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
As requested in your letter of March 21, 1968, the Board 
of Governors approves the re-establishment of grade one and the 
following minimum and maximum salaries for the employees' salary 
structures at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, effective 
April 1, 1968: 
Grade 
Minimum Salary 
Maximum Salary 
• 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
$ 3,340 
3,440 
3,660 
3,930 
4,250 
4,600 
5,000 
5,435 
6,015 
6,635 
7,315 
8,045 
8,935 
9,940 
11,080 
12,340 
$ 4,350 
4,650 
4,950 
5,310 
5,740 
6,210 
6,750 
7,340 
8,125 
8,960 
9,880 
10,865 
12,065 
13,430 
14,960 
16,660 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respective 

To: Mr. Karl R. Bopp 
-2-
positions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below 
the minimums of their grades as a result of the structure increase 
should be brought within appropriate ranges by July 1, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
* 1254 
Item No. 7 
4/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 4, 1968. 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board has considered the request of the Central Bank 
of the Philippines for the assignment of Spencer S. Marsh, Jr., 
Market Adviser, of your Bank to undertake a mission to the 
Philippines as described in the attached letter from Deputy 
Governor Brinas. It is understood that the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York is willing to make Mr. Marsh available for this 
assignment, and the Board approves such an arrangement on terms 
substantially the same as those mentioned in the letter from the 
Central Bank of the Philippines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Attachment. 

J3* 
O c;r-
BDARD OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
4/4/68 
••f^lRES^* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of March 27, 1968, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointments of Michael J. McEnroe as an examiner and 
Peter N. Thomson as an assistant examiner for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the 
effective dates of the appointments. 
It is noted that Mr. Thomson owns approximately 
120 shares of stock of the Bank of America, NT&SA, which 
is to be delivered to him in about six months. Mr. Thomson 
plans to dispose of this stock when he receives it, and 
his appointment is given on condition that he dispose of 
the stock no later than 30 days after receipt. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 8, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Sturgeon Bay, 
Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by Bank of Sturgeon Bay, Sturgeon Bay, 
Wisconsin, in the unincorporated village of Brussels, Door County, 
Wisconsin, provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of 
the community and that establishment of the branch will not tend 
to create an undesirable competitive situation. It is noted that 
the last examination of your bank by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago revealed a fairly high volume of criticized loans and it 
is urged that steps be taken to strengthen loan and collection 
Policies. 
Very truly yours, 
• 
. ' 
. 
'' t! 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
or-
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60M0 
(J 12) HA 7-2320 
Item No. 10 
4/4/68 
April 4, 1966 
Mr. C. J. Houds, Assistant Vict President 
first Trust A Savings Kink of e ^ - V i W 
South flohuyJsr Avsuue 
fcmkakas, Illinois 60901 
Dear Hr. Houdss 
On hshslf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
grants an sxteesica of tins of six aoaths ftta 
April 20# 19oB# within which your bank say establish a branch 
(drive-in, valk-up facility) at 5 ® last Court 8treet, Kankakee. 
Illinois. 
Vary truly yours, 
I. 0* lUlts 
Assistant VIos President 
*CBT:rk 
cc - Board of Governors 
Caanlsslotier of Banks and Trust Companies 
Examiner's file 
( , 
••1 i 
C O P Y 

c o p y 
1 2 5 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
75222 
Item No. 11 
4/4/68 
April k, 1968 
Board of Directors 
farmers State Bank of Clifton 
Clifton, Texas 766jl 
Gentlemeni 
Reference is mode to President Hulen C. Mrs' letter of March 28, 
1968, together with the accompanying resolution dated March 19, 1968, sig-
nifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System and requesting vaiver of the six months' notice of such withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank haa waived the requirement of six months1 notice of 
^tbdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 208.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your institution may accomplish termination of its member-
ship at any time within eight months from the date that notice of inten-
tion to withdraw fran membership was given. Upon surrender to this bank 
atock issued to your institution, such stock will be cancelled and appro-
priate refund will be made thereon. 
When you have been advised by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation of the continuance of deposit insurance, please forward us 
f°r refund the stock of this bank held by you and also your certificate 
°f meatbership in the Federal Reserve System, thereby terminating your 
®*®*>ership. Tour letter transmitting this stock should contain instruc-
tions as to the disposition of your reserve account balance and the trans-
f e r of securities, if any, which are held in safekeeping for the account 
o f your bank by us. 
If we can be of auoy further assistance, please feel free to 
C * U on us. 
President 
Board of Governors of the 
^ 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
