Minutes for March 13, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 
Revision of Regulation M under the title 
Foreign Activities of National Banks; 
and adoption of conforming amendments 
to Regulation K, Corporations Engaged 
in Foreign Banking and Financing under 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

931 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem on Monday, March 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs* Leavitt, Dahl, and Egertson, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Langham, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Mr. Fisher of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Poundstone of the Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made available 
to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the respective 
ltem numbers indicated. 

932 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of Smithfield, Smithfield, 
1 
Virginia, approving the establishment of 
an in-town branch. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget commenting 
2 
on a draft bill to be cited as the Housing and 
Urban Development Amendments of 1967. 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated March 7, 1967, from the Division of 
Examinations recommending approval of the application of The Detroit 
Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan, to establish a branch in 
Harrison Township, Macomb County. 
Governor Brimmer observed that strong protests against the 
establishment of the branch had been received, that the applicant did 
not expect to be able to operate the proposed branch profitably for six 
years, and that there were already numerous banking offices within a 
relatively short distance from the site. He believed these circum-
stances raised questions whether the applicant was merely pre-empting 
a branch site and whether there was need to open another banking office 
in the area. 
After discussion of the points raised by Governor Brimmer, there 
was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Robertson that the matter 
be deferred until inquiry could be made of the Chicago Reserve Bank and 
the State banking authorities regarding certain aspects of the applica-
tion. 

4 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Call report (Item No. 3). There had been distributed a draft 
of letter transmitting to the Federal Reserve Banks the forms to be 
used by State member banks and their affiliates in submitting reports 
as of the next call date. 
During comments on the variations between the forms proposed to 
be prescribed by the Board and by the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mr. Veenstra called attention 
to an indication in the draft letter that for this call a special item 
would be included in the memorandum section on the back of the report 
to collect information on "Dollar amount of loans outstanding under 
credit card, check credit, and similar revolving credit plans," primarily 
to identify banks that now had such plans in use. The report form for 
national banks also would include such a memorandum item, but there was 
a question whether or not the form used by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation would do so. The Corporation's forms had already been printed, 
and an overprint would be necessary if the item were to be included. Con-
ferences at staff level had indicated that the Corporation was reluctant 
to use such an overprint, but would probably consent if the Board felt 
strongly that the item was important. 
Governor Brimmer stated that the item had been included at his 
Su8gestion. He considered the information important as a benchmark for 
the study of credit card plans now in progress. 
In response to an inquiry by Governor Mitchell regarding the 
^asibility of a size limit on the banks that were asked to report the 

934 
.3/13/67 
-13-
item, in view of the fact that probably only the larger member banks 
operated such plans, Governor Brimmer noted that a negative response by 
other banks would not impose an undue reporting burden. 
There was general agreement with a suggestion by Governor 
Brimmer that the staff continue its efforts to have the Corporation 
include the item and that, if it appeared agreement could not be reached, 
Governor Robertson, in his role as Board representative on the Coordi-
nating Committee on Bank Regulation, would take the question up with 
Chairman Randall. 
Governor Brimmer then referred to the statement in the draft 
letter that because of the difficulty and high cost of processing State 
member and national bank condition reports to achieve comparable statis-
tics for all member banks and all insured commercial banks, it was not 
Planned to keypunch and tabulate the face of the spring condition report. 
He inquired about the reasons for not processing the data, and also about 
the reasons for the lag of from six to nine months before call report 
results were available to the Board. He believed the Board had been 
handicapped in discussions preceding recent policy actions by the lack 
°f current call information. 
Discussion brought out that a principal factor in both the time 
lag and the high cost of processing was the large amount of manual edit-
ing that was necessary to convert to a comparable basis figures for 
items that were defined differently by the several supervisory author-
ities . 

6 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Governor Maisel commented that the items not uniformly defined 
must be relatively few in number. He asked if it would not be worth 
while to tabulate those for which there was no such problem. 
Staff responses indicated that several items were defined 
differently, and the view was expressed that lack of tabulation of the 
spring and fall call reports involved no great loss to statistical pro-
grams . 
Question was then asked why, if the spring and fall reports 
were limited in scope and the data not adaptable for machine processing, 
the reports could not be eliminated. Response was made that the law 
required four calls each year and that the figures from them were used 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for assessment purposes. 
Other staff comments reviewed the development in recent years 
°f a statistical approach in which fewer censuses would be made of the 
full detail on the back of the call report but the June and December 
reports would be supplemented by more refined sample series to provide 
the necessary intervening indicators for such items as bank credit, 
earning assets, and deposit liabilities. 
Governor Brimmer noted that nothing had thus far been devised 
to provide a satisfactory substitute for the discontinued details from 
the spring and fall calls. He asked whether sufficient progress was 
being made in obtaining the information that was apparently needed. 
Governor Robertson suggested the desirability of not pressing 
f°r procedural changes at the present time. A problem had arisen because 

936 
.3/13/67 
-13-
of disparity of reporting requirements of the supervisory agencies. 
Work was now in progress to develop an agreement that would bring about 
uniformity in call reports and disclosure reports. He believed the need 
at the present time was for the Board's staff to go through the call 
report to see what could be eliminated and what should be added, with a 
view to obtaining the best information on a uniform basis. Once unifor-
mity had been achieved, all of the data should be processed. 
Governor Maisel commented that an additional need was for explo-
ration of the question whether the usefulness of information from the 
spring and fall calls was in fact so marginal that tabulating costs were 
not justified. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the letter of transmittal 
was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Messrs. Egertson, Langham, and Veenstra then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Release of discount data. There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated March 10, 1967, from Mr. Holland recommending that the 
Board authorize release of data, requested by the American Bankers 
Association, on the number of member banks using the Federal Reserve 
discount window, by Reserve districts, for each reserve period and 
month during the years 1956-1966. The information would be used in 
connection with a study of the discount mechanism currently being under-
taken by the Association. The figures requested, by reserve period but 
n°t monthly, were contained in statements that had been prepared weekly 

937 
.3/13/67 
-13-
for reserve city banks and biweekly for country banks for the time span 
requested, except for a short period in 1958. Although the statements 
had been distributed regularly only within the System, aggregate numbers 
of banks borrowing had been referred to in a number of public statements 
recently, and it did not seem likely that supplying the Association with 
a district breakdown would pose any confidentiality problems. It was 
suggested that the first three lines of the statements be reproduced 
for the use of the Association. Although those lines included informa-
tion regarding the amount of borrowings, which had not been requested 
by the Association, including it would ease reproduction problems and 
the figures were already made public in another statement. 
After comments by Mr. Holland on the probable nature of the 
Association's discount study, Governor Brimmer expressed the view that 
if the information was to be furnished to the Association it should also 
be made available for use by other analysts. It would be unfortunate 
if at about the same time the Federal Reserve's current study of the 
discount mechanism was completed the Association published a study based 
°n data that had not been made available to others who might be inter-
ested in doing research in that field. 
The release of the information to the American Bankers Associa-
tion was then authorized, with the understanding that a notice that 
such data were available upon request would be published in the Federal 
Reserve Bulletin. 

938 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Unencoded checks (Item No. 4). Pursuant to the understanding 
at the meetings on March 3 and 8, 1967, there had been distributed a 
revised draft of letter to General Motors Corporation (for Governor 
Mitchell's signature) regarding the desirability of using checks capable 
of being handled on high-speed electronic equipment. 
After a discussion during which Governor Mitchell described 
conversations he had had with officials of General Motors Corporation, 
the letter was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Messrs. Brill, Holland, Partee, and Fisher then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Regulations M and K (Items 5-7). Two drafts of a proposed 
revision of Regulation M, to be entitled Foreign Activities of National 
Banks, had been published in the Federal Register for comment, the second 
one in January 1967 pursuant to action by the Board on January 17. The 
Proposed revision was designed to implement the amendment to section 25 
of the Federal Reserve Act approved July 1, 1966, (Public Law 89-485), 
that broadened the latitude of national banks to invest in or make loans 
to foreign banks, subject to such regulations as the Board might prescribe. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 9, 1967, 
from the Legal Division and the Division of Examinations submitting a 
new draft reflecting staff appraisal of the second round of comments 
received. 
The memorandum brought out that the only provision that had 
elicited important objections was one stating that "When requested by 

939 
.3/13/67 
-13-
the Board, a national bank shall cause any foreign bank controlled by 
it (i) to make reports to the Board at such time and in such form as 
the Board may prescribe; and (ii) to submit to examination by examiners 
selected or auditors approved by the Board. The cost of such examina-
tions shall be fixed by the Board and paid by the national bank." This 
provision had not been included in the first version of the proposed 
revision; it had been inserted in the second draft for the purpose of 
conformity with a similar provision in Regulation K, Corporations 
Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act. 
In submitting the second draft of the proposed Regulation M to the Board 
the staff had indicated that the question whether the Board should reserve 
in its regulations the right to examine foreign institutions was to be 
considered in the special study of foreign banking currently in progress; 
if the Board decided on the basis of that study that these provisions in 
Regulations M and K were undesirable, they could be deleted. 
In light of the comments received regarding the second draft 
revision of Regulation M, however, it was believed that the issue should 
be decided immediately. The Department of State had first recommended 
that the provisions be amended to indicate that they would not be used 
if their use would be inconsistent with the laws of the particular for-
eign country. However, after formal representations were received from 
the Canadian and Swiss Governments, the Department now recommended that 
the provisions be deleted from both regulations, and it had requested 

940 
.3/13/67 
-13-
an opportunity to make an oral presentation on the matter if the Board's 
view was in favor of retaining them. 
The memorandum set out at some length considerations bearing 
upon the retention or deletion of the provisions and the possible 
embarrassment to foreign relations they might engender. In essence, 
foreign governments regarded the presence of the provisions as contain-
ing a danger of possible encroachment on their sovereignty. It was 
emphasized that the Board had never invoked the right of examination 
reserved in Regulation K, and it seemed improbable that the Board would 
attempt to exercise such a right in the face of opposition by a foreign 
government. Moreover, it had always been possible to obtain from the 
parent institution the information regarding subsidiaries that was 
necessary for the Board's purposes under Regulation K, and there was 
no reason to suppose that the same procedure would not be satisfactory 
under Regulation M. 
The analysis of the question concluded by suggesting several 
alternative procedures: (1) to eliminate the provisions entirely and, 
a s a matter of general policy, not require direct reports from or exam-
inations of foreign institutions (this was the alternative recommended 
by the staff); (2) to eliminate the provisions from the proposed regula-
tion but impose these requirements as a condition to consent to make 
the investment; (3) to amend the language of the provision so as to 
ttake clear that reports from and examinations of foreign institutions 

941 
.3/13/67 
-13-
would not be required if prohibited by the laws or regulations of the 
country of incorporation; or (4) to insert general language in the 
regulations that would, in effect, require compliance with Board requests 
for reports or examinations but without referring to them specifically. 
The staff also recommended, in the light of comments received, 
that the provision in the published draft that would require a United 
States bank to obtain prior Board consent to accept stock rights on 
stock already held be changed to indicate that prior consent of the 
Board was not required for the acquisition and exercise of stock rights 
that were declared on shares already held and that did not result in an 
increase in percentage ownership. If the Board accepted this recommenda-
tion, a conforming amendment to Regulation K was also recommended. 
The memorandum also called attention to the need for an amend-
ment to section 211.9(d) of Regulation K, which prescribed loan limita-
tions to foreign institutions controlled by Edge and agreement corpora-
tions, inasmuch as the limitations on loans to foreign banks had been 
eliminated from the proposed Regulation M as published in the Federal 
Register. 
In addition to the draft regulation in the form recommended by 
the staff, there was attached to the memorandum a draft of a press 
release. It was noted that the conforming amendments to Regulation K 
need not be published for comment, since they were liberalizing in 
nature. 

942 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Mr. Forrestal commented on the changes proposed for incorpora-
tion in the draft regulation and on other suggestions that had been 
received but were not recommended by the staff. In regard to the 
reservation of the right to require reports from and to examine foreign 
affiliates, he brought out that in addition to the objections expressed 
by the Canadian and Swiss Governments, the Governor of the Bank of 
England had sent a letter to Chairman Martin containing an opinion that 
the presence of the provision in the regulation might prove to be a 
source of difficulty. 
Governor Mitchell stated that, while he did not have a strong 
opinion regarding the provision for requiring reports and examinations, 
he believed the third alternative mentioned in the memorandum would 
recognize the problem adequately. However, if the Board should prefer 
another alternative, that also would be acceptable to him. 
Governor Brimmer asked Governor Robertson whether, if a review 
were being made of Regulation K at the present time, he would recommend 
omitting the provision regarding reports and examinations, and Governor 
Robertson responded in the affirmative. 
Further discussion indicated a consensus in favor of deleting 
the provision from both regulations. 
Question was raised whether it would be desirable to limit the 
to which stock rights could be exercised without the Board s 
Prior consent to a certain percentage of the capital increase in the 

943 
.3/13/67 
-13-
foreign bank represented by the stock issue. However, discussion of 
this point revealed a preference for limiting the privilege to stock 
rights declared on shares already held that would not result in an 
increase in percentage ownership. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the draft press release be 
reviewed in an effort to make it less legalistic, and it was understood 
that he would work with the staff to that end. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved unani-
mously, effective March 15, 1967, the revision of Regulation M and the 
conforming amendments to Regulation K in form reflecting the agreement 
reached on points considered at this meeting. Copies of the notices 
sent to the Federal Register regarding these actions are attached as 
.Items 5 and 6. A copy of the press release issued is attached as 
.Item No. 7. 
Mr. Fauver then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Company for Investing Abroad. After discussion 
° n November 8, 1966, of the application of The Company for Investing 
Abroad, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a section 25(a) corporation, for 
consent to purchase between 20 and 35 per cent of the stock of Balthex 
International, Inc., also of Philadelphia, the Board requested the 
staff 
to analyze the policy aspects of the application. The general 
Policy question was to what extent it was appropriate for United States 
banks, through Edge and agreement corporations, to invest in companies 

15 
.3/13/67 
-13-
engaged directly or indirectly in nonfinancial activities in the United 
States. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 7, 1967, 
from the Division of Examinations reviewing the experience of Edge and 
agreement corporations in acquiring interests in nonfinancial enter-
prises, the relevant statutory and regulatory provisions, and certain 
general considerations bearing on the activities of the corporations. 
This background material was followed by an examination of the policy 
issues implicit or inherent in direct investments or in indirect acqui-
sitions of interests in nonfinancial enterprises by Edge and agreement 
corporations. The principal conclusions regarding the policy issues 
were as follows: 
1. The acquisition of a majority interest in such a 
company is, as a rule, not appropriate for a corporation. 
Such interests are not normally necessary to the conduct of 
a United States bank's international business and such inter-
ests might tend to lessen the intended financial character 
of the corporations. The specific consent of the Board 
should be required prior to such an acquisition. 
2. The acquisition of a minority interest in a non-
financial enterprise operating abroad is clearly an appro-
priate exercise of a corporation's powers. Such an acquisi-
tion accords with the broad public purposes to be served by 
the corporations. 
3. The acquisition of a minority interest in a foreign 
company engaged through an office or subsidiary in nonfinan-
cial activities in the United States is appropriate so long 
as the statutory tests are satisfied. (The statute prohibited 
investments in companies engaged in the general business of 
buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise, or commodities 
in the United States. Thus, investments in companies oper-
ating in the United States were limited to companies providing 

945 
.3/13/67 
-13-
financial and commercial services in the United States. 
The services provided in the United States must meet the 
further statutory test of being, in the judgment of the 
Board, incidental to the international or foreign business 
of the company.) 
4. The acquisition of a minority interest in a domes-
tic company engaged in nonfinancial activities in the United 
States would be appropriate where the statutory tests ap-
peared satisfied and where the activities were of the sort 
often associated with a bank's international department. 
Close scrutiny should be given to companies engaged in 
other activities as to (1) whether the focus of those activ-
ities was indeed international, and (2) whether a proposed 
investment in a domestic company was likely to produce bene-
fits to the foreign commerce of the United States that could 
outweigh the consequences of possibly placing corporations 
in competition with domestic commercial companies. 
An annex to the memorandum set forth the essential facts regard-
ing the activities of Balthex International, with arguments for and 
against granting consent to the proposed investment by The Company for 
Investing Abroad. 
After introductory comments by Mr. Dahl, Governor Robertson 
asked the Legal Division to review the basis for its conclusion,set 
forth in a memorandum distributed prior to the discussion in November, 
that approval of the application could be justified. 
Mr. Shay observed that Balthex was not engaged in buying and 
Selling merchandise in this country as a general business, but only in 
filling orders for customers abroad, an activity that seemed essentially 
related to international operations. Whether or not that activity was 
1ncidental to international operations involved a question of interpre-
tation. While that was debatable, he believed that to hold that as a 

946 
3/13/67 
-16-
technical, legal matter it was not incidental would amount to taking a 
narrow view. 
Mr. Forrestal commented further on the Division's view that the 
activities of Balthex could be regarded as incidental to international 
operations, and on similarities between this situation and the one 
involved in a 1965 application by Mellon Bank International to acquire 
shares of Bank of London & South America, London, England, which the 
Board had approved. Mr. Forrestal added that if the Board should con-
sider that from the policy standpoint the activities of Balthex made 
an investment in that company not appropriate for Edge corporations, a 
denial of the application could be supported from the legal point of 
view. 
Governor Robertson asked if it was correct to say that the 
Legal Division had based its conclusion largely on the action taken by 
the Board in the Mellon case. Mr. Forrestal replied that the Legal 
Division had not used the Mellon case simply as a precedent but thought 
the action taken was supportable legally. Mr. Shay expressed the opin-
lQn that, while it was possible to decide the current question either 
Way, the liberal view was probably easier to support. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the subsidiary of Bank of London 
^ South America had discontinued some of the activities in the United 
States that had been in question, and the ensuing discussion brought 
0ut that it was not known definitely why it had done so. 

18 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Governor Brimmer then observed that a distinction had been 
drawn in that the subsidiary in question in the Mellon case had offices 
abroad, whereas Balthex dealt through agents. He asked if the question 
of dealing through offices or agents was considered significant in judg-
ing the appropriateness of an investment. 
Mr. Shay responded that it was difficult to differentiate 
according to the letter of the law between the acceptability of an 
investment in a State-chartered corporation conducting its business 
through agents and one in a foreign corporation that conducted opera-
tions through agents in the United States. 
Mr. Dahl expressed the view that there might be a possible 
distinction between conducting business abroad through the company's 
°wn units and through casual agents or distributors. 
Chairman Martin said it was his feeling that if a case like the 
Present one was not prohibited by law, it would be better for the Board 
to give consent than to deny the application. If the proposal of The 
Company for Investing Abroad would encourage additional exports, that 
would be in the public interest. 
Governor Maisel remarked that he had found the staff analysis 
°f the policy issues valuable. In his mind the critical question was 
whether U.S. banks, through Edge and agreement corporations, should be 
allowed to have a special relationship with firms with which they would 
n°t otherwise be permitted to be affiliated. 

948 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Mr. Shay responded that the Legal Division would regard it as 
improper for an Edge or agreement corporation to acquire a majority of 
the stock of a U.S. nonbank, nonfinancial organization. The corpora-
tions were formed for the purpose of engaging in foreign banking and 
financing. They should not be permitted to get into an ownership-
management position in nonfinancial businesses. 
Governor Maisel stated that Mr. Shay's remarks made him feel 
even more strongly that Edge and agreement corporations would not seek 
investment in domestic corporations except to allow their parent banks 
to participate in management and operations that would be prohibited if 
the relationship were direct. In his view, such an acquisition could 
not be regarded as merely an investment. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the Balthex situation appeared 
to be one in which the parent bank, having a number of industrial cus-
tomers, wanted to finance their exports and wished to encourage them to 
enter the export market by putting them in touch with an export agent. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the export agent, Balthex, 
would thus be given an important competitive advantage over other export 
agents. it was his feeling that such an advantage should not be allowed. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he believed the proposed arrange-
ment was one that would promote exports and therefore was probably the 
kind of experiment the Board ought to encourage rather than discourage. 
Many export potentials had probably been lost because manufacturers 

949 
3/13/67 
-19-
needed additional expertise, and this proposal might be a useful device. 
Moreover, he would be pleased if additional banks entered into such 
arrangements. He was persuaded by the reasons presented by the staff 
for granting consent. If the Board approved the application, it should 
recognize that this was a new and basic policy decision, and therefore 
one that it would seem desirable to make known publicly. 
Governor Robertson read pertinent parts of the statute and 
expressed the view that the activities of Balthex in the United States 
apparently were not incidental to international business but were its 
entire business; Balthex was merely a conduit between manufacturers in 
the United States and purchasers abroad. In response to an observation 
by Governor Brimmer that Balthex did not act as a conduit for shipment 
of goods between points in the United States and there was always a 
foreign point of origin of orders, Governor Robertson commented that 
Balthex appeared to have no foreign business to which its domestic 
business could be incidental. 
After further exchanges of views regarding the determination 
°f an incidental relationship, Governor Brimmer requested comments from 
Mr- Sammons in regard to the possible merit of the proposal in terms of 
Promoting exports. 
Mr. Sammons stated that although he had difficulty in arriving 
a t a conclusion, he thought that at least in a sense the business of 
Balthex was purely domestic and that to approve the proposal would open 

950 
.3/13/67 
-13-
a wide gate. Although the proposed relationship might be an aid to 
exports, the statute did not cite promotion of exports as a basic 
purpose of Edge and agreement corporations. Mr. Sammons noted also 
that Internal Revenue Service gave weight in judging tax questions to 
whether sources of income were domestic or foreign; under that test, 
he thought Balthex would be considered domestic, since all of its 
income arose within the United States. 
Asked what potential danger he saw in allowing The Company for 
Investing Abroad to use Balthex as a conduit, Mr. Sammons replied that 
the danger applied to circumvention of the public policy of separating 
banks from commercial business. The Legal Division assigned weight to 
whether the investment represented a majority interest or not, but Mr. 
Sammons felt that even a minority investment was likely to carry with 
it an active interest in management. 
Mr. Shay commented that the test differentiating between owner-
ship and investment was whether control could be exercised. If control 
existed, even though the percentage of stock owned was less than 50 per 
cent, the investing company was itself engaged in the business. 
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Dahl said he 
thought it was problematic whether the Balthex arrangement would promote 
e*ports. The arrangement was an experiment on the part of The Company 
Investing Abroad, and the outcome was uncertain. The parent bank 
1ndicated that it had tried various ways to get some of its manufacturing 

951 
.3/13/67 
-13-
customers into exports and had found it difficult. It was not known 
how successful the proposed arrangement would be in producing orders 
for those manufacturers. Therefore, it was difficult to judge whether 
a positive contribution to promotion of exports would result. 
In continuing discussion several members of the Board mentioned 
particular facets of the problem that they would like to have explored 
as a basis for further discussion. Interest was expressed in particular 
in the role played by export agents in assisting manufacturers. 
It was understood that the staff would prepare additional mate-
rials along the lines that had been described. 
Messrs. Molony, Shay, Sammons, Forrestal, Goodfellow, and 
Pounds tone then withdrew from the meeting. 
Operations subsidiaries. On July 13, 1966, the Board reaffirmed 
its previous position that the provision of section 5136 of the Revised 
Statutes prohibiting the purchase by banks of corporate shares for their 
°wn account also prevented separate incorporation of particular banking 
fllnctions. (Comptroller of the Currency Saxon had issued a ruling to 
fche opposite effect.) However, the Board directed the staff to study 
the problems that would be involved if member bank acquisition of such 
operations subsidiaries was authorized by Congress and to submit a legis-
lative proposal for Board consideration. In August 1966 the Federal 
Reserve Banks were asked for their views on the basic proposal and on 
a number of specific related questions. 

952 
3/13/67 
-22-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated March 3, 1967, 
from the Legal Division reporting views expressed by the Reserve Banks 
and recommending approaches to be taken in regard to a number of ques-
tions bearing upon the structure of a possible statutory provision and 
its accompanying regulatory authority. Attached to the memorandum was 
a draft bill. 
Although time did not permit extended discussion at today's 
meeting, members of the Board indicated areas in which they believed 
questions were presented. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that it would be desirable 
to spell out carefully the recommended position that an office of an 
operations subsidiary in effect constituted an office of the parent 
bank and therefore must have the same supervisory approval that was 
needed for a branch. Also, it seemed unclear to him exactly what func-
tions could be performed by operations subsidiaries and what must be 
done by the bank proper. He believed such questions must be resolved 
largely by agreement between the bank supervisory authorities before 
legislation was proposed. 
Governor Maisel also had a question with respect to the inclu-
Slon of a grandfather clause. The recommendation of the staff was that 
member banks be given two years in which to bring into conformity with 
the new law, if enacted, their ownership of corporations acquired before 
the enactment of the Banking Act of 1933, which had imposed the prohibi-
tion of ownership of corporate stocks. He did not believe it was 

953 
.3/13/67 
-13-
reasonable to require the undoing of relationships that had been in 
existence for many years, if those relationships had not done any harm. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the inclusion of a 
grandfather clause would avoid a great deal of trouble. 
Governor Shepardson noted that the staff proposal called for 
joint regulation by the Board and the Comptroller of the Currency, 
which he believed would be unworkable. It seemed to him reasonable to 
place the authority in one agency, preferably the Board. 
Governor Brimmer joined in the view expressed by Governor 
Shepardson. He regarded the placement of regulatory authority as a 
key point in the basic approach to the whole question. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
further consideration would be given to the matter at any early oppor-
tunity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
ft_em No. 8") approving the appointment of John J. Gallagher, Peter M. 
Hanno, and Gerald P. Minehan as assistant examiners. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
intment 
Peter M. Lauriat as Assistant Operations Analyst (Summer), 
division of Bank Operations, with basic annual salary at the rate 
°f $4,776, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 

954 
.3/13/67 
-13-
Acceptance of resignations 
Sandra H. Cook, Clerk, Division of International Finance, effec-
tive the close of business March 6, 1967. 
Rosemary Ferris, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business March 17, 1967. 

955 
BDARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
I T E M 
N O ' 
1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/13/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
• F F I C I A L C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1967 
r. 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Smithfield, 
Smithfield, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Bank of Smithfield, 
Smithfield, Virginia, of a branch in the vicinity of the 
intersection of State Routes 10 and 704, Smithfield, 
Isle of Wight County, Virginia, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

956 
t: 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
THE 
3/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
' ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E I P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1967 
W. H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
lq
 
T h i s letter is in reply to your memorandum of March 2, 
asking for comments on the draft bill, "To amend and extend 
aws relating to housing and urban development, "to be cited as 
ne Housing and Urban Development Amendments of 1967. The Board's 
onsnents are confined to Sections 2 and 5 of the bill relating to 
mortgage rates and discounts. 
t, 
I n connection with the changes proposed in Section 2 of 
® bill, the Board agrees that raising to 6 per cent the statutory 
nterest rate ceiling on most FHA-insured multifamily mortgage 
Programs represents an initial step toward improving administrative 
t o
e X l b i l i t y i n a dj u s t i ng contract interest rates on these mortgages 
going yields on competitive instruments in the capital markets, 
evertheless, it must be recognized that the amplitude of fluctua-
hi°hS i n m a r k e t interest rates cannot be predicted; even the slightly 
^gner ceiling rate proposed could, at some time, prove inadequate 
of m a i n t a i n i n g the competitive attractiveness, without discounts, 
these insured mortgages. At best, therefore, the changes 
oposed might alleviate the discount problem but they cannot be 
garded as a permanent solution. 
0£ 
The Board has also considered the provisions of Section 5 
le 5 
d r a f t bill that would require all discounts realized by a 
m o
 
e r t o be deducted from the amount of the FHA settlement on 
rtgage insurance claims filed within three years after the effec-
e date of the contract of insurance. If enacted, this provision 

Mr. W. H. Rommel 
- 2 -
would prove to be inequitable, since it would force a reduction 
in the yield anticipated by a lender on discounted loans fore-
closed in the initial three-year period but would permit the 
lender to receive the yield in full if discounted loans were 
terminated during the same period by voluntary prepayment in full. 
Moreover, the uncertainties associated with investment 
under these conditions could quite likely impair the competitive 
attractiveness and marketability of FHA mortgages at all times 
and in all regions when primary-market discounts exceed amounts 
approved by HUD as eligible for settlement of insurance claims. 
To a very minor degree, the change might also encourage some 
laxity in servicing discounted loans that had defaulted, in order 
to delay foreclosure until the three-year deadline had passed 
regardless of the circumstances surrounding default. 
The Board offers no comment on other provisions of the 
Proposed legislation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

958 
'•ffcxE&t--' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/13/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 2k, 1967. 
T h e i n d i c a t e d number of copies of the following forms are 
f o r w a r d e d t o y o u r B a n k under separate cover for use of State 
, 
- h a n k s and their affiliates in submitting reports as of the 
call date. A copy of each form is attached. 
^ b e r of 
Form FR 105 (Call No. 183), Report of Condition 
of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e (Revised February 1966), Publisher^ 
copy of report of condition of State member 
banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised February 1966), Publisher's 
copy of report of condition of State member 
banks. 
Form FR 220 (Revised September I966), Report of 
affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's 
copy of report of affiliate. 
th0se
 
T h e faces of the condition report forms are identical to 
^ihtedSed f ° r t h e D e c e m b e r 
call. The some form is "being 
to itlr
 
hy tlle Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for distribution 
CoB!pt^Gd nonmember State banks. It is understood the Office of the 
to 
£Her of the Currency will distribute a form similar on the face 
~ 
U s e d a t t h e December call. This form continues to differ in 
Slid f
 GsPects from the State bank forms. As for other recent spring 
C Q l l s 
suPPortlng schedules on the reverse have been 
a1:G(i except for the items required for deposit insurance assess-
^ Purposes. 

-10- 
959 
Memoranda items on the back of the form for reporting valuation 
eserves on loans and securities have been included but items pertaining 
o averages of deposits and loans have been eliminated for consistency 
t h e forms being used for national and nonmember State banks. 
, 
T h e average deposit and loan items have been retained on the 
^lisher's c°Py of the State member form. However, since they are not 
s pertinent for this call as for the mid-year and year-end calls, when 
th + 
dressing" has been a problem, reporting banks should be advised 
at publication is optional. 
The Comptroller of the Currency is not 
equiring publication of these items for this call. 
not 
T h G n a t i o n a l b a n k report continues to include memoranda items, 
certi? 
d C d i n S t a t G b a n k r e p o r t s> t o collect information on time 
$100 n 
Q t e S ° f d e p o s i t s outstanding in denominations over and under 
L IT°°' 
A n e W i t 6 m i n t h e M e m o r a n d a section of the national form 
Q r a m o u n t o f loans sold under agreements to repurchase" will not 
e Included in State bank reports. 
Se , 
F o r 'this call a special item will be included in the Memoranda 
o f
 
o n t h e hack of the report to collect information on "Dollar amount 
-Loans outstanding under credit card, check credit, and similar revol-
whiSv1
Credlt p l a n s*" 
T h i s i t e m i s intended primarily to identify banks 
Vili fn°W h a V G S U C h p l Q n s i n u s e > 
T h e l i s t o f b a n k s derl-ved therefrom 
inciri 1711 t h G b a S i S f° r l a t e r s u r v ey s t o collect more detailed information 
a m ^ 
t 0 t h e S y s t e m , s P^ns to study the impact of these activities in 
tion 
° f b r ° a d Q r e a s* Although the item will provide a general indica-
u ^ 
t h e a m o u n t o f ^anc currently outstanding under such plans, it 
defi 
4 t k a t t h e d a t a w i l 1 n o t b e e n t i r e l y specific because of the 
the 
n a l p r o b l e m s involved. An identical item will be included in 
I'enu?^10^1 b Q n k C Q l 1 r eP o r t f o r m b u t there are no plans at this time to 
quire insured nonmember State banks to report similar information. 
fcemb 
Because of the difficulty and high cost of processing State 
Com^er Q n d n a t l o n a l member bank condition report forms to achieve 
hcink a b l e s t a t i s t i c s f o r all member banks and all insured commercial 
Co
 
i-t i s not planned to keypunch and tabulate the face of the spring 
Plan i ° n r e p o r t # 
T h e existing heavy backlog of work in data processing 
h a s i 
a n d o p e r a t l n g functions at both the Reserve Banks and the Board 
M^n, 
contributed to this decision. A manual tabulation of the special 
^oranda item will be made. 
Very truly yoyrs, 
) 
Secretary 
Closures. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

960 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
3/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N Q T O N 
G E O R Q E W . M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R o r T H E 
a O A R D 
March 13, 1967 
Mr. F. H. LaRowe, Treasurer, 
General Motors Corporation, 
1775 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10019 
Dear Mr. LaRowe: 
We would like your assistance in the effort of the 
Federal Reserve System to provide the national economy with a 
more expedient and expeditious collection of checks. One of 
the problems now complicating this effort stems from the fact 
that checks issued by some business concerns, of which General 
Motors is the only sizable company, still do not bear a commer-
cial bank sorting symbol encoded in magnetic ink. 
This encoding is necessary to permit checks to be 
handled on modern highspeed electronic equipment, and was first 
sponsored nearly ten years ago by the American Bankers Association 
and the Federal Reserve System. Progress toward the adoption of 
the encoding requirements for highspeed handling has proceeded 
steadily throughout these years; at the end of January 1967 it 
permitted the Federal Reserve Banks to handle on highspeed 
equipment 97 per cent of all checks received. 
The development of electronic handling of checks has 
had a two-fold effect. On the one hand, it has enabled the 
Federal Reserve Banks to extend their closing hours for checks 
qualified for highspeed handling and thus give earlier credit 
for more checks. On the other hand, it has meant that checks 
that are not qualified for electronic handling now require 
special manual procedures which are both slow and costly. 
The Federal Reserve System announced on August 8, 1966 
that, effective September 1, 1967, the Federal Reserve Banks will 
classify all nonmachinable items as requiring special handling 
and will process them only as noncash items. This change will 

9B1 
Mr. F. H. LaRowe 
-2-
mean that such checks will be credited to the presenting bank 
(and presumably the payee of the check) only after collection 
is actually accomplished—a process that often requires several 
days--whereas cash items are credited after a maximum of two 
days. The August announcement stated that the purpose was to 
minimize the use of checks that cannot be handled by highspeed 
electronic equipment. 
The new procedure will mean that after September 1, 
1967, checks in the form of the copy enclosed will not be 
acceptable as cash items because they do not qualify for the 
regular machine processing, which is now close to universal 
acceptance. Consequently, they will be treated as noncash items. 
We are, of course, hopeful that you will see your way clear in 
the meantime to altering your procedures so that such checks 
will be drawn on a single bank and can thereby be encoded and 
become machinable. 
Should you wish to discuss any aspect of this subject 
please let me know and we can arrange to get together at a 
mutually convenient time. 
It was a pleasure to meet you in New York last week. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell 
Enclosure 

Item No, 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
3/13/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. M] 
PART 213 - FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
1. Effective March 15, 1967, Part 213 is revised to read as 
follows: 
Sec. 
213.1 Authority and sccpe. 
213.2 
Definitions. 
2 X 3.3 Foreign branches 
213 l 
Acquisition and holding of stock in foreign banks. 
213 s T 
Loans or extensions of credit to foreign banks. 
2 l 3-6 
Conditions. 

213.1 Authority and scope. 
-2-
1/ 
Pursuant to authority conferred upon it by section 25 of the 
P 
l-1 
ederal Reserve Act 
(the "Act"), as amended (12 U.S.C. 601-604a), 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Board") 
Prescribes the following regulations relating to (a) foreign branches 
of national banks, (b) the acquisition and holding of stock in foreign 
banks by national banks, and (c) loans or extensions of credit to or 
the account of such foreign banks by national banks. 
§ 213.2 Definitions. 
For the purposes of this part -
(a) "Foreign branch" means any branch established by a national 
b°nk pursuant to section 25 of the Act. 
(b) "Foreign country" or "country" means any foreign nation 
0 r 
i 
colony, dependency, or possession thereof, any overseas territory, 
Pendency, or insular possession of the United States, or the Common-
Ve*lth of Puerto Rico. 
text corresponds to the Code of Federal Regulations, Title 12, 
th^pter II, Part 213; cited as 12 CFR Part 213. The subject matter of 
s Part is in addition to that contained in 12 CFR Part 211 (Reg. K). 
1/ x 
of 
a r a s Provisions of Federal law are concerned, the provisions 
Qs "is part apply to State member banks of the Federal Reserve System 
Well as to national banks. 
^ 
Grtinent portions of this section are printed in the Appendix. 

-10-
964 
(c) "Foreign bank" means a bank organized under the law of 
a foreign country and not engaged, directly or indirectly, in any 
activity in the United States except as, in the judgment of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, shall be incidental to 
the international or foreign business of such foreign bank. 
§ 213.3 Foreign branches. 
(a) Establishing foreign branches. A foreign branch may be 
established with prior Board permission. If a national bank has estab-
lished a branch in a foreign country, it may, unless otherwise advised 
by the Board, establish other branches in that country after thirty 
days' notice to the Board with respect to each such branch. 
(b) Further powers of foreign branches. In addition to its 
°ther powers, a foreign branch may, subject to §§ 213.3(c) and 2.13.6 
3 n d -So f a r as usual in connection with the transaction of the business 
of__banking in the places where it shall transact business: 
(1) Guarantee customers' debts or otherwise agree for their 
benefit to make payments on the occurrence of readily ascertainable 
3/ 
events, 
if the guarantee or agreement specifies its maximum monetary 
liability thereunder; but, except to the extent secured with respect 
thereto, no national bank may have such liabilities outstanding (i) in 
an aggregate amount exceeding 50 per cent of its capital and surplus 
°r (ii) for any customer in excess of the amount by which 10 per cent 
& Including, but not limited to, such types of events as nonpayment 
taxes, rentals, customs duties, or costs of transport and loss or 
n°nconformance of shipping documents. 

-4-
its capital and surplus exceeds the aggregate of such customer's 
obligations" to it which are subject to any limitation under sec-
tion 5200 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 84); 
(2) Accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn upon it, which 
shall be treated as "commercial drafts or bills" for the purposes of 
Paragraphs (c), (d), and (e) of § 203.1 of Part 203 (Reg. C); 
(3) Acquire and hold securities (including certificates or 
other evidences of ownership or participation) of the central bank, 
clearing houses, governmental entities, and development banks of the 
c°untry in which it is located, unless after such an acquisition the 
aggregate amount invested by the branch in such securities (exclusive 
securities held as required by the law of that country or as 
authorized under section 5136 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. 24)) 
w°uld exceed one per cent of its total deposits on the preceding year-
eid call report date (or on the date of such acquisition in the case 
of a newly-established branch which has not so reported); 
(4) Underwrite, distribute, buy, and sell obligations of 
th 
. 
e national government of the country in which it is located; 
but 
n° bank may hold, or be under commitment with respect to, obligations 
such a government as a result of underwriting, dealing in, or pur-
"^asing f o r i t s o w n account in an aggregate amount exceeding 10 per 
Gnt of its capital and surplus; 
(5) Take liens or other encumbrances on foreign real estate 
ln connection with its extensions of credit, whether or not of first 
Su I n c l u d i n 8 obligations issued by any agency or instrumentality, and 
PPorted by the full faith and credit, of such government. 
985 

-5-
966 
Priority a n d w h e t h e r o r n Q t s u c h r e a l ^
^ 
^ 
^ ^ 
^ 
aPPi'aised, and without regard to the maturity or amount limitations or 
ionization requirements of section 24 of the Act (12 U.S.C. 371); 
(6) Extend credit to an executive officer of the branch in 
amount n o t to exceed $50,000 or its equivalent in order to finance 
the 
e acquisition or construction of living quarters to be used as his 
residence abroad, provided each such credit extension is promptly 
reP°rted to its home office; 
(7) Pay to any officer or employee of the branch a greater 
r a t e of interest on deposits than that paid to other depositors on 
S X m i l a r deposits with the branch. 
(c) L j ^ t i c ^ s . Nothing in § 213.3(b) shall authorize a 
reiSn branch to engage in the general business of producing, dis-
uting, buying, or selling goods, wares, or merchandise,or, except 
Permitted by § 213.3(b)(4), to engage or participate, directly or 
r e C t l y > l n t h e b u s i ness of underwriting, selling, or distributing 
t i t l e s . 
( d ) 
Suspending operations during disturbed conditions 
The 
0fficer in u 
~~ 
" 
charge of a foreign branch may suspend its operations during 
sturh 
conditions which, in his judgment, make conduct of such 
°PGtati 
impracticable; but every effort shall be made before and 
g such suspension to serve its depositors and customers. Full 
N a t i o n * 
t 
concerning any such suspension shall be promptly reported 
e Ranch's home office, which shall immediately send a copy thereof 
the J 
°ard through the Federal Reserve Bank of its district 
fo 
as 
indi 

-10-
967 
§ 213.4 Acquisition and holding of stock in foreign banks. 
(a) General. With the prior consent of the Board, and subject 
to the provisions of section 25 of the Act and this part, a national bank 
may acquire and hold directly or indirectly" the stock or other evi-
dences of ownership in one or more foreign banks: Provided, That the 
aggregate amount invested directly or indirectly (other than through a 
corporation operating under section 25 of the Act or organized under 
section 25(a) of the Act) in the stock or other evidences of ownership 
o f all foreign banks, taken together with investments by the national 
bank in the shares of corporations operating under section 25 of the 
Act or organized under section 25(a) of the Act, shall not exceed 
25 
Per cent of the national bank's capital and surplus. Nothing con-
tained in this part shall prevent the acquisition and holding of stock or 
°ther evidences of ownership in a foreign bank where such acquisition is 
necessary to prevent a loss upon a debt previously contracted in good 
faith; but such stock or other evidences of ownership shall be disposed 
o f within twelve months from the date of acquisition unless such time 
ls extended by the Board. 
(b) Limitatio ns. Stock or other evidences of ownership in 
foreign bank shall be disposed of as promptly as practicable if 
such bank should engage in the business of underwriting, selling, 
0 r distributing securities in the United States or (2) the national 
indiH°WeVer' p r i o r consent of the Board is not required hereunder.for 
the r G C t ac<luisit:ions in the stock of foreign banks made pursuant to 
general consent provisions of Part 211.8 (Res. 10. 
a 
(i) 

968 
-5-
bank is advised by the Board that its holding is inappropriate under 
1Qn 25 Of the Act or this part. The terms "stock", "shares", and 
it 
6 V l d e n c e s o f ownership" in this section include any right to acquire 
Stock QV, 
> snares, or evidences of ownership, except that prior Board con-
3 not required for the acquisition and exercise of stock rights 
^ ^ -
Gu of dividends which are declared on shares already held by a 
°nal bank and which do not result in an increase in percentage owner-
ShlP of the foreign bank. 
Required information. A national bank applying for the 
Gnt of the Board to acquire and hold stock or other evidences of 
°Wnershin 
c 
. 
, , 
F in a foreign bank pursuant to this section shall furnish 
t'uii . 
lnformation concerning such foreign bank including (unless pre-
S l y furnished): (1) the cost, number, and class of shares to be 
3cquirGd 
n . u 
» and the proposed carrying value of such shares on the books 
of th 
national bank; (2) recent balance sheet and income statement 
°f the f °reign bank; (3) brief description of the foreign bank's 
B
U
S
I ^
S
S 
f j 
I 
, , 
including full information concerning any direct or indirect 
business 
transacted in the United States); (4) lists of directors and 
PnnciPal 
ff 
°tticers (with address and principal business affiliation of 
and 
°f all shareholders known to the issuing bank holding 10 per 
CGflt 
m 
more of any class of the foreign bank's stock or other evidences 
XP> and the amount held by each; and (5) information con-
th 
G rights and privileges of the various classes of shares 
( d) Reports. A national bank shall immediately inform the 
t d 
t h r o °u?h the Federal Reserve Bank of its district with respect 

-8- 
9
8
9 
to any acquisition or disposition of stock in a foreign bank including 
the cost and number of shares acquired pursuant to this section. 
§ 213.5 Loans or extensions of credit to foreign banks. 
6/ 
(a) A national bank which holds directly or indirectly 
stock or other evidences of ownership in a foreign bank may make loans 
or extensions of credit to or for the account of such foreign bank 
without regard to the provisions of section 23A of the Act. 
§ 213.6 Conditions. 
(a) The continued or propsective exercise of any power under 
this part shall be subject to any notice interpreting or applying it 
that a national bank may receive from the Board, and such bank shall 
immediately comply therewith. 
(b) The Board may from time to time require a national 
hank to make reports at such time and in such form as the Board may 
prescribe regarding the exercise of any power hereunder and to sub-
mit information regarding compliance with this part. 
2a. The principal purpose of the revision is to add to this 
part two new sections covering the purchase by national banks of stock 
of foreign banks and loans to such banks by the national banks. 
The two new sections added by the revision implement an 
amendment to section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 601-604a) 
that v;as approved July 1, 1966 (Public Law 89-485, section 12(b)). 
6/ Whether Through a corporation operating under section 25 of the 
Act or organized under section 25(a) of the Act, or otherwise. 

e r the amended law, any national bank having a capital and surplus 
of 
million or more, with the permission of the Board and pursuant 
to 
U s re8ulations, may invest directly or indirectly in the stock 
f foreign banks and make loans or extensions of credit to such banks 
' U h° U t regard to section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c). 
der appiicabie law, the regulation generally applies also to State-
artered banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. 
The revision authorizes national banks that have obtained the 
ssion of the Board to acquire stock of foreign banks, but limits 
^e tot-n 
ai amount of these foreign bank investments to not more than 
pgj. 
cent of the capital and surplus of the investing U. S. bank 
taken 
ogether with its capital investments, if any, in so-called 
EdBe a d 
n Agreement corporations operating pursuant to sections 25 
and 25 ( \ 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611-631). The revision 
als° auth • 
"orizes national banks which have a direct or indirect stock 
inVestm er*t in foreign banks to make loans or extensions of credit to 
foreign banks without regard to the provisions of section 23A of 
the 
, 
Gderal Reserve Act. 
The revision also amends this part to increase to $50,000 
,000 the amount of credit which may be extended by a foreign 
a»ch o f 
a national bank to one of its executive officers for the 
of 
, . 
acquiring or constructing living quarters for his use 

-10-
971 
b. This part was the subject of Notices of Proposed Rule 
Making published in the Federal Register (31 F. R. 10895, August 16, 1966; 
32 F. R, 874, January 25, 1967), and was adopted by the Board after 
consideration of all relevant material, including responses received 
from interested persons pursuant to said notices. The required pub-
lication described in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code, 
is unnecessary in connection with this part for the reasons and good 
cause found by the Board, and especially because such publication 
would not aid the persons affected or otherwise serve any useful pur-
Pose and would prevent this part from becoming effective as promptly 
a s desirable for the convenience of the institutions affected. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 15th day of March, 1967. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(Seal) 

972 
Item No. 6 
3/13/67 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
PART 211 - CORPORATIONS DOING FOREIGN BANKING OR 
OTHER FOREIGN FINANCING UNDER THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE ACT. 
1. Effective March 15, 1967, Part 211 is amended as follows: 
(a) Section 211.8(c)(2) is amended to read as follows: "In 
computing the amount which may be invested in the shares of any corpora-
tion under section 25(a) of the Act or § 211.8(a), there shall be 
included any such investments in other corporations controlled by such 
corporation. Unless otherwise specified, 'shares' in this section in-
clude any rights to acquire shares, except that prior Board consent 
is not required for the acquisition and exercise of stock rights in 
iieu of dividends which are declared on shares already held by a 
Corporation 
and which do not result in an increase in percentage 
ownership of the foreign bank." 
(b) Delete section 211.9(d). 
(c) Delete the third sentence in section 211.9(g). 
(d) Change the designations of sections 211.9(e), (O, and 
to 211.9(d), (e), and (f), respectively. 
2a. The purpose of these amendments is to conform this part 
t 0 the provisions of part 213, "Foreign Activities of National Banks" 
^ich has been revised effective March 15, 1967. The language added 

985 
-4-
to section 211.8(c)(2) is the same as that added to part 213. The 
Provisions deleted from this part concern loans to and examinations 
of foreign institutions. 
b. The notice and public participation procedure described 
lU SG°tion 553 of Title 5, United States Code, is unnecessary in 
c°nnection with these amendments for the reasons and good cause found 
the Board, namely, because these amendments operate to relieve 
estrictions otherwise applicable, and such procedure would not aid 
Persons affected or otherwise serve any useful purpose and would 
P event the amendments from becoming effective as promptly as 
esfrable for the convenience of the institutions affected. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 15th day of March, 1967. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary 
(Seal) 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
•f^f.' 
For Immediate Release 
4 Item No. 7 
3/13/67 
March 15, 1967 
The Board of Governors has adopted, effective March 15, 1967, 
a revision of its Regulation M. The principal purpose of the revision 
to add to the Regulation two new sections covering the purchase by 
national banks of stock of foreign banks and loans to such banks by the 
national banks. Under applicable law, Regulation M generally applies 
also to State-chartered banks that are members of the Federal Reserve 
System. Prior to this revision, the Regulation covered only foreign 
branches of member banks. 
The two new sections of the Regulation added by the 
revision implement an amendment to section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 601-604a) that was approved July 1, 1966 (Public Law 
^9-485, section 12(b)). Under the amended law, any national bank 
having a capital and surplus of $1 million or more, with the permission 
the Board and pursuant to its regulations, may invest directly or 
Indirectly in the stock of foreign banks and make loans or extensions 
Q f credit to such banks without regard to section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c), which places restrictions on loans by 
Member banks to their affiliated organizations. 
One of the new sections of the revised Regulation (section 213.4) 
authorizes national banks that have obtained the permission of the Board 
t o acquire the stock of foreign banks, but limits the total amount of 
those foreign bank investments to not more than 25 per cent of the 

-2-
975 
capital and surplus of the investing U. S. bank taken together with 
its capital investments, if any, in so-called Edge and Agreement 
corporations operating pursuant to sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 611-631), The new Regulation does not require 
prior consent of the Board for U. S. banks to acquire or exercise stock 
rights in lieu of dividends which are declared on shares already held 
by the U, S. bank and which do not result in an increase in percentage 
ownership of the foreign bank. A conforming amendment to the Board's 
Regulation K dealing with Edge and Agreement corporations has been 
^ade in this respect. 
The other new section of the revised Regulation (section 213.5) 
authorizes U, S. banks which have a direct or indirect stock investment 
in foreign banks to make loans or extensions of credit to such foreign 
banks without regard to the provisions of section 23A of the Federal 
Rp serve Act. The provisions of Regulation K which restrict loans by 
Eh 
Se and Agreement corporations to their foreign affiliates has been 
deleted to conform that Regulation to Regulation M. 
The revision also amends Regulation M to increase to $50,000 
trom $20 ,000 the amount of credit which may be extended by a foreign 
wtanch of 
a U, S, bank to one of its executive officers for the pur-
Pose of acquiring or constructing living quarters for his use abroad. 
Stock acquisitions in and loans or extensions of credit to 
foreign banks made pursuant to the revised Regulation will be considered 
f o 
reign investments for the purposes of the guidelines issued under the 
V°luntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program presently in effect. 

-5-
976 
The revision of regulation H has been prepared in the light 
of comments received by the Board subsequent to publication of proposed 
revisions of the Regulation in the Federal Register of August 16, 1966, 
and Januaray 25, 1967. 
In the January 25, 1967 proposed revision of the Regulation 
a provision was included that would have required a domestic bank, when 
requested by the Board, to cause a foreign bank controlled by it to 
wake reports to the Board and to submit to examinations by examiners 
selected or auditors approved by the Board. The Board's Regulation K 
has contained a comparable provision for a number of years. Although 
use of the provision in Regulation K has never been necessary, it has 
come to the Board's attention that such a provision might be regarded 
as having extraterritorial implications which were not intended. In 
°rder to avoid any misunderstanding on this point, the provision has 
keen dropped from the revision of Regulation M and a conforming amend-
ment to Regulation K has been made. 
The Board expects that the foreign branches and affiliates 
of every member bank will conduct their affairs in accordance with the 
laws of the countries in which they carry on their activities. The 
further expects that member banks (and their foreign branches 
and affiliates) will conduct their activities, in the United States and 
akroad, on the basis of high standards of banking and financial prudence. 
Member banks are expected to make sufficient information available to 

977 
-5-
the Board as will enable the Board to satisfy itself that those standards 
are being met. 
The texts of the revision of Regulation M and of the conforming 
amendments to Regulation K are attached in the form submitted to the 
federal Register. 
Attachments. 

978 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No> 
8 
• F T H E 
3 / 1 3 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2055! 
A D D R E S S 
D R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request con-
tained in your letter of March 7, 1967, the 
Board approves the appointments of John J. 
Gallagher, Peter M. Hanno, and Gerald P. 
Minehan as assistant examiners for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise the 
effective dates of the appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
