Minutes for August 30, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, August 30, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Noble, Shuter, and Via of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Greenspun of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Burton, Kline, and Rumbarger of the 
Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Pflueger and Veenstra of the Division 
of Data Processing 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
r ' v ( • 
g r . e r consideration of background information that had been made avail-
X%0v I • 
abl 
e to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

8/30/67 
- 2 -
34.19 
Item No. 
Letter to Exchange Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
El Dorado, Arkansas, approving an investment 
in bank premises, based on an understanding 
that the bank's capital funds were to be 
increased. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal 
2 
Reserve Banks prescribing procedures for 
the reporting of "as of" adjustments and 
substantial reserve deficiencies for which 
Penalties are waived. 
Letter to Central-Penn National Bank of 
3 
Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
relating to a suggestion that the Board 
intervene or file a brief as amicus curiae 
in pending antitrust litigation involving 
that bank. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
°f Bank of Lillington, Lillington, North Carolina, into First National 
Bank of Eastern North Carolina, Jacksonville, North Carolina, was 
h„ 
S££roved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
:,My.t. ijnr 
k !• iCV.si 
",:\5 
: i' ' : i.r^v .. ' 
Ilj6,6 14 p Qt-CSV 
sion stated that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Proposed revision of Regulation 0 (Item No. 4). There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated August 25, 1967, 
Submitting a proposed revision of Regulation 0, Loans to Executive 
Officers of Member Banks, that would (1) conform the regulation to the 
Provisions of section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended by 

34 20 
8/30/67 
-3-
Public Law 90-44 effective July 3, 1967, and (2) redefine the term 
"executive officer" so as to limit it to persons participating in major 
policy-making functions. Attached to the memorandum was a draft notice 
of proposed rule making that it was recommended be published in the 
Federal Register. 
In reviewing the distributed material, Mr. Hackley observed 
that the present regulation defines "executive officer" as "every offi-
cer of a member bank who participates . . . in the operating management 
of the bank or any branch thereof." Toward the end of 1963, he recalled, 
the Comptroller of the Currency published an interpretation purporting 
to define the term "executive officer" as including only those persons 
who actually participated in the formulation of policy and were respon-
sible for the implementation of policy. Shortly thereafter the Board 
instructed its staff to review Regulation 0, with particular attention 
to the question of redefining the term "executive officer." The Legal 
Division considered various possibilities, and in August 1966 a proposed 
definit ion that would limit the term to a bank s policy-making officers 
W a s sent to the Reserve Banks for comment. The proposal was received 
favorably by the Reserve Banks, but action by the Board was deferred 
Pending the outcome of proposed legislation to amend section 22(g) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
The proposed legislation had now become law, and it appeared to 
^ e Legal Division that it would be appropriate to narrow the definition 

r M 
Mwi i 
8/30/67 
-4-
of "executive officer" in the course of revising Regulation 0. Certain 
titled officers would be presumed to be executive officers unless a 
resolution of the bank's directors stated that they were not authorized 
to participate and did not actually participate in the formulation of 
the bank's major policies. 
The recommended definition, Mr. Hackley said, would be in har-
mony with the definition of "officer" in the Board's Regulation F, 
Securities of Member State Banks, and appeared to be consistent with 
the intent of Congress. 
Mr. Hackley concluded by saying that if the Board were to adopt 
°nly the conforming amendments to Regulation 0, it would not be necessary 
to publish them in the Federal Register for comment. However, if the 
revision included a new definition of "executive officer," it was recom-
mended that a notice of proposed rule making be published in the Federal 
Agister and sent to the Reserve Banks. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that the proposed revision should be 
Polished for comment. However, he expressed the view that the role of 
a bank's officer in major policy-making functions had little to do with 
issue here involved, which instead seemed to him to relate more to 
the officer's role in regard to lending and investment activities of 
t^e bank. He would prefer to define an "executive officer" as one "who 
the power or shares with others the power to make, to set aside, or 
to >» 
reverse rules or policies followed in bank lending and investment 
activities." 

o o 
8/30/67 
- 5 -
Mr. Hexter indicated that the Legal Division felt the law was 
intended to focus on the degree of influence an officer possessed, that 
is, whether an officer was of such stature as to be in a position to 
obtain a loan that might not otherwise be granted. In his opinion, the 
Congress was concerned about the matter of an officer's high position, 
which might enable him to dominate lending personnel, regardless of 
whether the officer was directly involved in the lending function. 
Mr. Hackley expressed the view that the definition suggested by 
Governor Mitchell would be both too narrow and too broad. It would 
aPPear to cover many officers in a large bank who had authority to make 
loans, with some degree of discretion. On the other hand, it might not 
cover even the president of the bank, or the chairman of the board, if 
they had 
nothing to do specifically with the lending of money. A defi-
nition tied to participation in major policy-making functions would sug-
gest, of course, participation in the formulation of general policies 
S o f a r as loans were concerned. However, personnel actually engaged in 
lending would not be defined as executive officers unless they partici-
pated in the establishment of general rules for making loans. 
In further discussion Governor Mitchell noted that under the 
Legal Division's proposed definition every vice president of a bank 
could fall within the executive officer classification. Mr. Hackley 
rePlied that the explanation accompanying the notice of proposed rule 
making would indicate that one of the purposes of the new definition 

<XA oo 
8/30/67 
-6-
was to permit the exclusion of almost all vice presidents. The neces-
sary step would be the adoption of a resolution of the bank's board of 
directors specifically excluding them from participation in major policy-
making funct 
ions. A bank, of course, would not be required to adopt 
such a resolution. 
It was then agreed to publish the proposed revision of Regula-
tion 0 in the Federal Register for the receipt of comments. A copy of 
the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks in this connection is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Application of First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security 
^Investment Company. First National Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, 
and Union Security & Investment Company, also of Tampa, had applied to 
acquire a majority of the voting stock of First National Bank of Lake-
land, Lakeland, Florida. 
(Technically, two applications were filed, 
since a majority of the stock of Union Security & Investment Company is 
trusteed for the benefit of the shareholders of First National Bank of 
Tampa.) 
Union Security & Investment Company proposed to purchase a 
majority (50.25 per cent) of the voting stock of the Lakeland bank 
f r 
Mr. p. Scott Linder, a director of First of Tampa and a trustee 
o f Union Security, at $35.50 a share, amounting to a premium of more 
an 7 p e r c e nt of deposits. No tender was being made to minority 
^areholders. However, Mr. Linder and three other directors of the 

8/30/67 
-7-
Lakeland bank had purchased for their own account a quantity of shares 
and had expressed willingness to purchase any additional shares tendered 
by minority shareholders at a price of $30 per share. 
During the course of the most recent discussion of the matter, 
at the meeting on July 24, 1967, concern had been expressed over the 
treatment afforded the minority stockholders, and the staff was requested 
to review the record to determine whether precedents existed for denial 
°f an application on the basis that an offer by a holding company to buy 
stock was not made to all shareholders. The staff was also instructed 
to prepare for the Board's consideration two statements, one of which 
would support approval of the pending proposal and the other denial. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Division 
of Examinations dated August 11, 1967, which indicated that the ques-
tion of treatment of minority interests had apparently not been the 
determining factor in any cases denied by the Board. However, question 
had been raised by the Division, in connection with one previous case, 
whether the Board should adopt a policy that would require applicant 
hank holding companies to make the same offer to minority as to major-
ity shareholders.— 
A summary of arguments pro and con was included in 
memorandum. The Division recommended adoption of such a policy, 
application to future cases, if it seemed legally supportable. 
V 
In the case cited the question later became moot because 
of action taken by the applicant. 

" M O'V 
t i *** » 
8/30/67 
-8-
There had also been distributed a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated August 22 submitting, as requested, two draft statements 
on the Lakeland case, one supporting approval and the other denial. A 
revision of the statement supporting denial, incorporating changes sug-
gested by Governor Maisel, was distributed under date of August 28. 
The memorandum from the Legal Division pointed out that inequi-
ties involved in the pending proposal, even to the extent they were 
satisfactorily established, did not constitute violations of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. Therefore, denial of the proposal would be 
expressly premised on a policy position with respect to the terms under 
which a stock purchase offer was to be made. Thus, denial would estab-
lish a precedent that presumably would govern all future applications 
insofar as offers to minority stockholders were concerned. The Legal 
Division had substantial reservations with respect to the legal basis 
which the Board could enforce the policy position in question. Fur-
ther, as a practical matter it appeared to the Division that an appli-
cant could circumvent any such established policy by covert prearrange-
ment with a majority stockholder. 
Governor Maisel stated that he agreed with the Division of 
Examinations that the Board should adopt a policy requiring equal 
treatment of all shareholders. In this connection he referred to 
510, a pending bill to provide for full disclosure of corporate 
equity ownership and in corporate takeover bids, particularly the 

8/30/67 
-9-
provision that would require, with respect to a tender offer for less 
than all of the outstanding equity securities of a given class, that 
the securities be taken up on a pro rata basis according to the number 
of securities deposited. 
Governor Maisel pointed out that the adoption of a policy such 
as he recommended would place holding company applications on the same 
footing as mergers, because in a merger a shareholder has the oppor-
tunity to agree to the plan or to be paid the value of his shares in 
one or both of the merging institutions. He suggested that in the 
Pending case the staff explore with the applicants the possibility of 
obtaining from them a statement for the record to the effect that an 
offer would be made to the minority shareholders equivalent to that 
made to the majority shareholder if the proposal were approved. 
Mr. O'Connell asked whether Governor Maisel would be satisfied 
if the applicants agreed to purchase shares on a pro rata basis, and 
the latter replied that he understood such a procedure would be in 
accord with the requirements of S. 510. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Board had taken a posi-
tion on the bill. When the reply was in the negative, he expressed the 
view that if the Board were to follow the approach suggested by Governor 
Maisel it should do so as a matter of Board policy rather than on the 
basis of provisions of a bill that the Board had not endorsed. 

34 
8/30/67 
-10-
The other policy question, Governor Brimmer added, related to 
the part of the proposal that contemplated acquisition of only a bare 
majority of the stock of the Lakeland bank. That would still be possi-
ble under the pro rata approach, and he did not think the question 
should be passed over lightly. 
Mr. O'Connell commented that if the Board was disposed to 
approve the pending proposal one approach would be to word the Board's 
statement so as to make known that the Board had decided to adopt a 
Policy with respect to the percentage of stock ownership that would be 
considered acceptable when a holding company wanted to acquire a bank. 
Another approach would be to return to the applicants, make known the 
Proposed policy position of the Board, and see if they were willing to 
modify their plan. On the first alternative, one problem was that the 
factors favorable to approval were not basically strong. On the second 
alternative, Mr. O'Connell expressed substantial reservations about the 
ability of the Board to enforce such a mandate. 
Governor Sherrill said that in the absence of an indication in 
the statute he would be reluctant to deny an application on the ground 
that it contemplated the acquisition of only a bare majority interest. 
Chairman Martin referred to the statement in the Legal Division's 
memorandum that denial of the pending proposal would be premised upon a 
Policy position adopted by the Board with respect to the terms under 
which a stock purchase offer could be made. He questioned whether the 

v 
] 
8/30/67 
-11-
Board was prepared to set the terms under which offers were to be made. 
It would be a serious thing to say that the Board was going to pass on 
every stock purchase offer, and he doubted whether the Board was in a 
Position to do so. 
Governor Maisel asked whether the Board was not entitled under 
the law to establish a general policy rule on how minority shareholders 
were to be protected, and Mr. O'Connell expressed concern that efforts 
to protect minority shareholders might, as a practical matter, be easily 
thwarted. Mr. Hexter cited as evidence that the Congress did not intend 
for the Board to go into the rights of minority holders the provisions 
of the Holding Company Act that allow a company that owns a majority of 
a bank's stock to acquire additional stock without the Board's approval. 
After members of the Board noted that different meanings could 
be attributed to the statutory provisions referred to by Mr. Hexter, 
Mr. Hackley expressed his views on the two policy issues that the Board 
had been discussing. On whether the Board would be justified in denying 
an application solely on the ground that the applicant holding company 
Proposed to acquire only a bare majority interest, he felt that such a 
Position would be vulnerable to attack in court. The language Mr. 
Hexter had cited was evidence that the Congress did not intend that a 
holding company should have to acquire all of a bank's stock. In fact, 
under the Act a 25 per cent stock ownership was defined as constituting 
c°ntrol. So he would have serious reservations about the legality of a 

u'1 
8/30/67 
-12-
decision such as he had just mentioned. He had almost as serious res-
ervations about denial of an application solely on the ground that a 
holding company was not making an offer to minority shareholders, par-
ticularly in light of the fact that most Federal and State merger laws 
made specific provision for the protection of minority interests but the 
Bank Holding Company Act did not. In his opinion, denial of an applica-
tion solely on the ground that no offer was made to minority shareholders 
would be almost in the nature of arbitrary action. 
Governor Maisel pointed out that under the law the Board was 
charged with responsibility for considering the convenience and needs 
factor. Here a matter of judgment was involved, and he inquired whether 
Mr. Hackley was arguing that a court might overturn a decision reflect-
ing the Board's judgment. 
Mr. Hackley replied that he thought it would be argued that the 
factor mentioned by Governor Maisel went more to the convenience and 
needs of the community or communities concerned. 
Governor Maisel repeated that a matter of judgment was involved. 
The question was whether the Board's judgment would be overthrown. In 
this particular case it was purely a question of judgment as to whether 
the factors involved were such that the convenience and needs of the 
community would be improved or not. 
Mr. O'Connell suggested that the issue might center more on the 
Public interest. The question would be whether the factors cited by the 

t ^ • > > V' ^ 
8/30/67 
-13-
Board were sufficiently adverse to the public interest to require 
denial. He believed that the question might be decided against the 
Board. 
Chairman Martin said that he would not like to have to defend 
such a position in court, on the basis of the law as he read it. If 
the Board wanted to make a decision on the terms of every individual 
stock offer, that would be an entirely new field for the Board, and he 
questioned whether the Board was prepared to undertake such a task. 
Governor Mitchell said that he would not object to attempting 
to negotiate with the applicants. In the absence of that, however, he 
would approve the pending proposal and accompany the Board's order with 
a statement incorporating portions of the draft statement that had been 
submitted in support of denial. The reader would then be able to detect 
the matters that were of concern to the Board, even though they were not 
c°nsidered a sufficient basis for denial. 
Chairman Martin said he would approve on that basis. In reply 
to his question, Governor Maisel said he thought his feeling would be 
that if the majority of the Board felt that way he would not dissent 
f^om such a statement. 
Upon inquiry by Governor Brimmer, Governor Mitchell reviewed the 
Portions of 
the draft statement that he would propose to use. Governor 
trimmer agreed, except that he also favored including some comment on 
the feature of the proposal that involved the acquisition of stock of 

3431 
8/30/67 
-14-
the Lakeland bank by four directors of the bank for their own accounts 
subsequent to the filing of the holding company application. 
There followed discussion as to what kind of comment in that 
regard could be substantiated by the record. Mr. Leavitt said the 
record indicated that the block of stock Mr. Linder proposed to sell 
to Union Security was acquired prior to the date of filing of the appli-
cation. Other shares had been acquired subsequently by the directors at 
$30 per share, but the directors did not propose to sell them to Union 
Security. A letter was included in the file stating that they would not. 
Mr. O'Connell said the portion of the draft statement in ques-
tion had been worded in such a way as to make it clear that the directors 
Were not being accused of improper self-dealing. However, it introduced 
a cautionary note about the potential for self-dealing. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would not want to go beyond 
a statement of that kind. He did, however, want a cautionary comment 
included. 
The interrelated applications of Union Security & Investment 
c°mpany and the First National Bank of Tampa were then approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that Governor Mitchell and Mr. O'Connell 
would collaborate on the preparation of a statement along the lines that 
^ad been discussed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

8/30/67 
y.nu-
-15-
Secretary's Note: Acting in the absence of 
Governor Robertson, Governor Sherrill today 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
34 P.2 
Appointment 
Katherine M. Colquette as Secretary, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,659, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Judith Ziobro, Research Assistant, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, to another budget position in the Flow of Funds and Savings Section, 
with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $7,957, effective 
September 10, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
David D. Kulig, Summer Law Clerk, Legal Division, effective the 
close of business August 30, 1967. 
Joyce E. Jamison, Librarian, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business September 8, 1967. 
Leroy Gardner, Jr., Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business September 6, 1967. 
Kenneth Lyles, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business September 8, 1967. 

34 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
8/30/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
BOARD 
August 30, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Exchange Bank and Trust Company, 
El Dorado, Arkansas. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the 
Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approves an investment in bank premises by 
Exchange Bank and Trust Company, El Dorado, Arkansas, of 
$700,000 for the construction of a new main office building. 
The Board's approval is based on its understanding 
that the capital funds of your bank are to be increased by 
$450,000 through the sale of capital debentures. Upon com-
pletion of the proposed building program, the investment in 
bank premises will represent a fairly high percentage of 
your bank's capital structure. The directors are urged to 
review the bank's capital position frequently, to conserve 
earnings in order that the capital structure may be strengthened, 
and to provide additional capital funds upon completion of the 
building program should a review at that time warrant such 
action. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

34 34 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
8/30/67 
S-2032 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 1, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The data on member bank reserve positions that are made 
available to the Manager of the System Open Market Account and to 
the Federal Open Market Committee, and which are published in the 
Federal Re serve Bulletin and in press releases, need to reflect as 
accurately as possible the true reserve position of member banks 
and to be consistent with measures of bank credit and deposits. 
The System Account Manager also needs as comprehensive and prompt 
a measure of bank reserve positions as possible in order to assess 
the developing tone in the money market and to make a decision on 
the nature and extent of open market operations. Also, it is 
desirable to minimize the risks of public misinterpretation that 
can stem from published reserve statistics that are appreciably 
at variance with the effective position of the member banks. 
To avoid such possible conflicts as they may be reflected 
in the statistics relating to member bank reserve positions, the 
Board will appreciate your adopting the reporting procedures out-
lined in this letter for "as of" adjustments to reserve balances 
of member banks and for substantial reserve deficiencies for which 
penalties are waived. 
All "as of" adjustments and deficiencies not 
penalized, when these are significant in amount as 
defined below, should be reported to the Board and the 
Federal Re serve Bank of New York as soon as they are 
effectuated or are indicated to member banks--within 
the statement week if at all possible or as soon there-
after as the information becomes available. Amounts 
should be reported only when the sum of these deficiencies 
and "as of" adjustments (credits or debits) for a District 
nets $50 million or more for a single day, or an average 
of $7 million or more per day for a statement week. In 

-2-
34 35 
S-2032 
such reports, aggregate amounts of "as of" adjustments 
and deficiencies should be reported separately from 
figures on reserves carried. 
„ „ „ , „ , . Deficiencies in reserves large enough to report would 
as flood 
5 6 m a i n l y l n t h e 0 3 8 6 ° f d i s a s t e r conditions, such 
as flood, snowstorm, or massive power failure, resulting in a 
breakdown of the normal means of communication and transportation. 
As of adjustments would probably arise more frequently but would 
of course, also be most evident in conditions noted above. 
attonM™ m ^ ,r,equested "Ports should be sent by wire to the Board, 
attention Mr' i T i T ™' ^ 
t h e F e d " a l R e s e r v e B a n k 
New York 
W e i d" e r- 
T h e r eP° r t should indicate the amount of 
2 
e " h r e S " v e C l a s s ' t h e effective dates, and the 
reserve factor that is affected, if any. (In most cases, "as of" 
^ n o S ? T t
J
S . h a V e b 6 e n r e f l e " e d I" 
float.) A record of the 
reported adjustments should be kept by the Reserve Bank so as to 
permit reconcilement with form FR 34. 
Very truly yours, 
r 
Merrit Sherman, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3 4 3 6 
BOARD OF GQVERNOR5 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
8/30/67 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 30, 1967 
Mr. Harold F. Still, Jr., 
President, 
Central-Penn National Bank 
of Philadelphia, 
Broad and Walnut Streets, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Harold: 
This refers to Mr. Ballard's memorandum to you of May 11, 
1967, a copy of which you left with me, wherein Mr. Ballard urges the 
appropriateness of the Board of Governors and the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation intervening or filing briefs as amici curiae in 
the pending antitrust litigation involving Provident National and 
Central-Penn National Banks. 
Specifically, the role which the Board is urged to consider 
would, if assumed by the Board, and permitted by the court, present a 
view on the meaning to be given the term "convenience and needs of the 
community" as that term is used in the Bank Merger Act of 1966, the 
purpose of such presentation being to protect the Board's position in 
this regard against the restricted interpretation of this term asserted 
by the Department of Justice. 
On the basis of an appraisal of the present posture of this 
litigation, the Board has concluded that neither the public interest, 
the interests of the parties to this litigation, nor those of the Board, 
in its role as a supervisory agency required to function under the Bank 
Merger Act, would be measurably advanced by the Board's acquiescence in 
either course of action urged. Among the factors leading to the Board's 
decision are (1)-the likelihood that the trial judge, exercising the 
discretion granted by Rule 24(b) of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure, 
would deny a petition by the Board to intervene as a party defendant at 
this stage of the proceedings, particularly if the petition were opposed 
by the Department of Justice; (2) the assurance that the parties defendant 
of record - Provident National and Central-Penn National, and the inter-
vener defendant, Comptroller of the Currency, all with a common view on 
the scope and meaning of the factor at issue - will ably and effectively 

Mr. Harold F. Still, Jr. 
present this view; (3) the possibility that even the filing of a petition 
seeking the court's permission for either intervention or amicus status 
could, with respect to other and equally important issues joined in this 
case, be interpreted as a change in the Board's earlier-stated position 
on these issues; and (4) the knowledge that the Board's view as to the 
meaning of, and weight to be accorded, the statutory phrase "convenience 
and needs of the community" is available, and I'm sure is known, to the 
court from the numerous published Statements of the Board issued with 
respect to its actions on applications under the Merger Act. 
The Board appreciates the opportunity afforded it to consider 
your recommendation, and in reaching its decision has been fully aware of 
the import to your bank of the issue in question. The Board will continue 
to follow with keen interest developments in the trial of this case. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
-2-
3a 

b
o
a
r
d 
o
f 
g
o
v
e
r
n
o
r
s 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
>438 
Item No. 4 
8/30/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
BOARD 
August 30, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has today forwarded for publication in the 
Federa1 Register a notice of proposed rule making relating to a 
revision of Regulation 0, "Loans to Executive Officers of Member 
anks". Copies of the document that was sent to the Federal 
Register are enclosed. 
The impetus to this proposed revision is the desirability 
0 
conforming the regulation to the recent amendments to section 22(g) 
the Federal Reserve Act (Public Law 90-44). While doing so, it 
seems appropriate also to offer for public comment a proposed 
redefinition of the term "executive officer" that is designed to 
th 
m° r e a c c u r a t e l y » i n t h e light of current banking practices, 
j 
ingress' intention in prohibiting member banks from making 
n s to their executive officers. 
s. 
Although the Reserve Banks expressed their views on a 
B^ilar proposed definition of "executive officer" in 1966, the 
^oard would be glad to have any comments or suggestions that you 
InL 
7 6 ° n t h a t ° r 3 n y o t h e r a s P e c t of the proposed revision. As 
icated in the attached document, the period for public comment 
as 
October 1, 1967. It would be appreciated if your comments, 
'ell as any received at your Bank from outside sources, could be 
ceived by or promptly after that date. 
Er*cl0s ure 
Very truly yours, 
I A T ^ A / v w 
Merritt Shermafi, 
Secretary.V 
'it 
' Vf 
TO T H E PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
