Minutes for August 9, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3 1 
d f 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, August 9, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 11:20 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Shull, Chief, Banking Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Garges, Information Systems Analyst, and 
Rand, Systems Engineer, Division of Data 
Processing 
(Secretary's Note: At 9:30 a.m. the members of the Board met 
with Messrs. Frank Smathers, Jr., George E. Stock, and Robert Asti, 
representing United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., to receive their views 
with respect to the pending application of Southeast Bancorporation, 

li 4 HK 4 
8/9/67 
-2-
Inc., Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of substantially all of the voting shares of First National Bank 
of Miami and Coral Way National Bank, both of Miami, Florida, and of 
Curtiss National Bank of Miami Springs, Miami Springs, Florida. A 
transcript was made of the meeting, and a copy has been placed in the 
Board's files.) 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background material that had been made available 
to the Board. Copies of the items are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, 
1 
Providence, Rhode Island, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch at the United States Naval 
Base, Newport. 
Letter to Irving International Financing Corpo- 
2 
ration, New York, New York, approving an amend-
ment to its articles of association. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
3 
noting without objection a proposal to sell (for 
$365,000) the former Little Rock Branch property. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
4 
approving vault construction in the new Cincinnati 
Branch building with 18-inch walls reinforced with 
S teelcrete. 
With respect to Item No. 4, there had been circulated a memo-
randum from the Division of Bank Operations dated July 24, 1967, dis-
cussing the request of the Cleveland Reserve Bank for the Board's 

3 1 . 4 8 
8/9/67 
-3-
approval of the use of 18-inch Steelcrete construction for the two 
vaults being planned for the new Cincinnati Branch building. The memo-
randum described this type of construction as well as the alternative 
that was under consideration, namely, 27-inch reinforced concrete walls. 
Steelcrete construction would cost $38,000 more than reinforced concrete. 
The Division favored the Steelcrete construction because of the addi-
tional space and protection it would provide at relatively modest cost. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of The National Bank of Waterville, Waterville, New York, into The 
Oneida National Bank and Trust Company of Central New York, Utica, New 
York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The National Bank of Water-
ville into The Oneida National Bank and Trust Company of 
Central New York, Utica, would eliminate a small amount 
of competition between participants in the area served 
by the Waterville Bank and potential for increased com-
petition. It would further the concentration of banking 
resources in the two largest banks which together already 
operate 79 per cent of the commercial banking offices in 
the Rome-Utica area and hold 83 per cent of the deposits 
held by commercial banks in that area. The overall effect 
of the transaction on competition would be adverse. 
Vault study (Item No. 5). There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated July 5, 1967, from Mr. Farrell regarding a proposed com-
prehensive study of the possibilities for more effective use of Reserve 
Bank vault space. The memorandum reviewed developments that had led 

3149 
8/9/67 
-4-
the Board, in a letter of June 2, 1967 (pursuant to action on May 31), 
to suggest the desirability of such a study to the Conference of Presi-
dents, and the indication by the Conference at its June 1967 meeting 
that, if the Board decided such a study should be made, the Conference 
was prepared to appoint an ad hoc subcommittee. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Chairman 
of the Presidents' Conference that would request the appointment of the 
ad hoc subcommittee, outline the basic objectives of the study, suggest 
a broad approach the subcommittee might follow, and indicate the range 
of talents that should be included in the make-up of the subcommittee. 
Governor Mitchell suggested a change in the draft letter to 
emphasize the view that the retention of outside consultants would be 
beneficial and to insure that the Board would have a voice in their 
selection. 
Governor Maisel suggested that it might be desirable to specify 
that the study should include consideration of separate locations for 
dead storage of currency and coin. 
There was agreement with these suggestions. After further 
exchanges of comments regarding the proposed study, unanimous approval 
was given to a letter in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Rules of Organization and Procedure (Items 6 and 7). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated August 4, 1967, from the Legal Divi-
sion regarding proposed revision of the Board's Rules of Organization 
and Rules of Procedure. 

a t s o 
8/9/67 
-5-
For many years, until recently, the Board's Rules of Organiza-
tion, Rules Regarding Information, Rules of Procedure, and Rules of 
Practice for Formal Hearings, all issued pursuant to the former Admin-
istrative Procedure Act, were contained in a single printed pamphlet. 
However, because of enactment of the Public Information Act, the Rules 
Regarding Availability of Information were revised effective July 4, 
1967; and, because of enactment of the Financial Institutions Super-
visory Act of 1966, the Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings were 
revised effective August 1, 1967. These revised Rules were being pub-
lished in separate pamphlets. 
The Board's Rules of Organization and Rules of Procedure like-
wise required revision, partly to bring them into conformity with the 
revised Rules Regarding Availability of Information, partly because of 
the recently adopted Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, and partly 
in order to recognize changes in the organization of the Board's staff. 
It was contemplated that the Rules of Organization and Rules of Procedure, 
because of their close connection, would be printed in a single pamphlet. 
The proposed revision of the Rules of Organization would entail 
only a few substantive changes. Descriptions of the functions of various 
Divisions of the Board's staff would be revised in certain respects to 
conform more closely to the present functions of the Divisions and to 
include, for the first time, a description of the functions of the Divi-
sion of Data Processing. The last section of the Rules of Organization, 

3151 
8/9/67 
-6-
regarding delegations of authority, would be expanded to refer to the 
formal delegations contained in the recently adopted Rules Regarding 
Delegation of Authority, and to refer also to the fact that the Board 
had delegated to the Reserve Banks certain nonstatutory functions of 
the Board. 
The revised Rules of Procedure likewise would involve no impor-
tant substantive changes. They would, however, be modified in order to 
refer, in several places, to actions taken by the Reserve Banks under 
delegated authority and to the procedure for obtaining access to records 
of the Board under its new Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
They would also include a revised list of certain Board forms. 
It was recommended that the revised Rules be approved, effective 
immediately. 
After discussion, the revised Rules were approved unanimously, 
effective immediately. Copies of the documents, in the form in which 
they were sent to the Federal Register, are attached, the Rules of 
Organization as Item No. 6, and the Rules of Procedure as Item No. 7. 
Culpeper facility modifications (Item No. 8). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated August 8, 1967, from the Division of 
Data Processing (in coordination with Messrs. Farrell, Harris, and 
Kelleher), recommending modifications in the proposed Culpeper computer 
system and communications switching system layout. A study had revealed 
that modifications in the building were required to provide additional 

8/9/67 
-7-
equipment space, power supply, and air conditioning capacities. These 
changes would allow the Culpeper location to handle the practical maxi-
mum installation of the kind contemplated by the Board. The cost of 
the modifications had been preliminarily estimated by the architect at 
$470,000. 
It was recommended that the Board approve the proposed modifi-
cations at this time to allow the contractor to proceed immediately 
with the necessary engineering and construction changes. It was further 
recommended that the Board authorize the estimated expenditures, which 
were not to exceed a total of $470,000 without further authorization. 
The proposed modifications had been reviewed by Governors 
Mitchell and Sherrill, the latter on the site. It was noted that the 
contingency fund provided for the Culpeper project had been largely 
used because of expenses arising from rock problems. Therefore, the 
estimated cost of $470,000 for the proposed modifications would repre-
sent an addition to the previously authorized over-all project cost. 
The Board approved unanimously an additional expenditure of not 
more than $470,000 for the Culpeper project for the purposes that had 
been described. Attached as Item No. 8 is a copy of a letter subse-
quently sent to President Wayne of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
regarding this action. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

8/9/67 
-8-
8 1 S 3 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
August 8, 1967, recommending that Emanuel Melichar, Economist in the 
Business Conditions Section, be authorized to attend the annual meet-
ing of the American Farm Economic Association to be held in Guelph, 
Ontario, Canada, on August 13-16, 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Charles E. Ficklin, Jr., as Computer Operator (Trainee), Division 
of Data Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,096, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfers 
Joy G. Hunter, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Division 
of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $3,925, effective August 13, 1967. 
Regina K. Simons, from the position of Stenographer in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in 
the Division of International Finance, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $4,269, effective August 13, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Judy G. Brooks, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, effective 
the close of business August 18, 1967. 
Eric C. Blankmeyer, Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business August 10, 1967. 
Mercy M. Heath, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business September 1, 1967. 
Brian L. Kastman, Summer Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business August 18, 1967. 

H154 
8/9/67 
-9-
y 
Acceptance of resignations (continued) 
Barbara Sullivan, Stenographer, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, effective the close of business September 1, 1967. 
Daniel H. MacDonald, Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division 
of Examinations, effective the close of business August 18, 1967. 
Philip H. Etzel, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, effective the close of business August 25, 1967. 
Karen Brown Ludington, Mailing List Clerk-Flexowriter Operator, 
Division of Administrative Services, effective August 2, 1967. 
John H. McDonald, Guard, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business August 14, 1967. 
On August 9, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
9 
approving the appointment of John Pierce Hammond 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of Rock- 
10 
land County, Nyack, New York, approving the 
establishment of a branch in the Village of 
Monroe. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Letter to Grant County Bank, Bayard, New Mexico, 
11 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
Assistant Secretary 

• ' n a v ^ ' i N o r m 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3155 
Item No. 1 
8/9/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Rhode Island Hospital Trust 
Company, 
Providence, Rhode Island. 
Gentlemen: 
- - 
i'. ixc 
. 1 
• . • • • . ' ! • 
, 
'.. 
.... : 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by Rhode 
Island Hospital Trust Company, Providence, Rhode Island, 
at the United States Naval Base, Newport, Rhode Island, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter and provided operations at 
the bank's existing facility at the United States Naval 
Base, Newport, Rhode Island, are discontinued simulta-
neously with the opening of the new office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3156 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/9/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1967 
Irving International Financing Corporation, 
One Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of July 27, 
1967, advising of the adoption of a resolution by the 
shareholders of your Corporation amending the Articles 
of Association of Irving International Financing Corpora-
tion to state that the number of directors shall be at 
least five. 
The Board of Governors approves the amendment 
to Article FIFTH. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
ITERA NO' 
I t U C U K A M 
q/Q/£7 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
0 / ^ / 0 / 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
, uV rt .1 
» . . . 
August 9, 1967. 
l„i in.. /;. 
£"> 
v * 'j 
« 
-v«•>*•• 
liUV'OA • 
Francis - St. Louis 
Z^t-.i VO'y.2,' J:.'.- 
Li^-J*'. 
i.? X. i'.V'v 
Board of Governors notes without objection proposal to sell 
old Little Rock Branch property as outlined in Mr. Weigel's 
telegram of August 2, 1967. 
• • 
• 
i :i / • • 
. ' 
• ' • * 
-
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
OF THE 
8/9/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D O R E B B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1967 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
. 
.SI. 
.C•. , 
;.• • J i .1 "' T 
•! • 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to your letter of June 12, 1967, concerning 
the construction of the vaults in the proposed new building for 
the Cincinnati Branch. 
The Board concurs in the recommendation of the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank and authorizes your instructing the architects to 
proceed with plans for the two vaults using 18-inch Steelcrete 
construction. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
8/9/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1967. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
This refers to the vault space study mentioned in the 
Board1s letter of June 2, 1967, and discussed by the Presidents 
at their June 19, 1967, conference. 
The Board notes that the Conference agreed to appoint, 
if the Board so desires, an ad hoc subcommittee for this purpose. 
For the reasons mentioned in its letter of April 26, 1967, and in 
the May 23, 1967, vault study by the Division of Bank Operations, 
the Board feels that the System could benefit substantially from 
a comprehensive study of vault problems, including the possible 
desirability of separate locations for dead storage, and that 
outside consultants employed on a System basis could be helpful 
in the undertaking. Accordingly, the Board will appreciate your 
taking whatever steps may be necessary to effect the appointment 
of the ad h£c subcommittee agreed to at the June 19 meeting of the 
Conference of Presidents. 
The Board believes that the basic objectives of this 
study should be the development of guidelines covering vault 
layouts, equipment, and procedures that would be of assistance 
both in planning new vaults and in more effective use of existing 
vaults. By way of illustration, the Board suggests that the study 
might include, but certainly not be limited to, such matters as 
the following: 
(1) Desirability of general-purpose vaults versus 
vaults designed and equipped specifically for 
currency, or coin, or securities, including 
the question of optimum floor-load capacities. 

Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-2-
go 
(2) Bases for projecting optimum vault size in the 
light of current holdings and other pertinent data. 
(3) Desirability of providing extensive working space 
within vaults versus adjacent areas. 
(4) Space needs for overnight storage of departmental 
buses, and possible alternative procedures. 
(5) Desirability of compartments or chests versus 
shelving and other open storage, and optimum size 
of compartments where needed. 
(6) Ideal specifications for lift-trucks, pallets, and 
other such equipment. 
(7) Possibilities for greater use of labor-saving (and 
possibly space-saving) equipment; for example, 
palletized storage of currency as well as coin, 
greater use of power files for securities, and 
possibilities for adapting power-file principles 
to the storage of currency and coin. 
The Board suggests that in undertaking this assignment 
the ad hoc subcommittee might determine in this order (1) a general 
outline for the study indicating the subjects to be covered, (2) 
the subjects which the subcommittee feels it has the competence to 
handle, and (3) the kind of consultants suitable and available for 
handling the remaining subjects. It would seem desirable for the 
subcommittee to make specific recommendations in this latter regard. 
It is recognized by the Board that the most effective uti-
lization of vault space calls for a careful balancing of (a) storage 
densities, (b) operating efficiencies, (c) security considerations, 
and (d) structural limitations in the case of existing vaults. These 
circumstances suggest that it would be desirable for the ad hoc 
subcommittee to be broadly representative and to include, in addition 
to operating men experienced in the areas mentioned, a representative 
of the auditing function who might appropriately be nominated by the 

Ik 
O I X * 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan 
-3-
Standing Committee of General Auditors. The Board will designate a 
representative of the Division of Bank Operations and a representative 
of the Division of Examinations to serve as associate members of the 
ad hoc subcommittee when it is appointed. 
Very truly yours, 
V'fij 
L 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 
p 
.4 t • L . .TV> • 
.U 11 1 
. • t • 
:*: • u 
i n:<>n.,rl •• ::y -m 

3162 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 
8 
8/9/67 
Rules of Organization of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Effective immediately, the Rules of Organization of the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System are as follows: 
SEC. 1 Basis and scope. These Rules are issued by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the "Board") pursuant to the re-
quirement of section 552 of Title 5 of the United States Code that each 
agency shall publish in the Federal Register a description of its central 
and field organization. 
SEC. 2 Composition and location. (a) Governors, Chairman, 
Vice Chairman. The Board consists of seven members appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, for fourteen-
terms. The members of the Board are required by law to devote their 
Gntire time to the business of the Board. One of them is designated by the 
President as Chairman and one as Vice Chairman, to serve as such for terms 
o f four years. At meetings, the Chairman presides or, in his absence, the 
Vi-ce Chairman presides. In the absence of the Chairman and Vice Chairman, 
the 
Board elects a member to act as Chairman Pro Tempore. The Chairman of 
Board, subject to its supervision, is its active executive officer. The 
B°ard usually meets daily to consider matters relating to monetary and credit 
Policies, regulatory and supervisory duties with which it has been charged by 
the Congress, and administrative and other questions arising in the conduct 
o f the work of the Board. 

« M jfO 
(b) Location and business hours.—The principal offices of 
the Board are in the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and 
Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, D. C. 20551. The Board's 
regular business hours are from 8:45 a.m. to 5:15 p.m. each weekday 
except Saturday; but such business hours may be changed from time to 
time. 
SEC. 3 Central organization. The Board's central organization 
consists of the members of the Board and the following Divisions and 
officials: 
(a) Office of the Secretary is headed by the Board's Secretary, 
who acts as the administrative officer of the Board in its relations with 
the Divisions of its staff, with the Federal Reserve Banks, and with the 
general public. This Office clears and conducts official correspondence 
of the Board and is charged with responsibility for maintaining and 
Providing reference service to the official records of the Board and 
the Federal Open Market Committee. 
(b) Legal Division, headed by the Board's General Counsel, 
advises and assists the Board with respect to legal matters, including 
legislation, regulations, interpretations, opinions, applications, 
hearings, orders, and litigation. 
(c) Division of Research and Statistics, headed by a 
director, provides the Board, the Federal Open Market Committee, and 
other System officials with the economic information needed for cur-
rent operations and the formulation of credit and monetary policies; 
and prepares, publishes, and interprets a variety of statistical series 
the financial and nonfinancial fields. 

-3- 
?ACA 
(d) Division of International Finance, headed by a Director, 
advises and assists the Board on international financial and economic 
matters and conducts research in this field. It carries on staff work 
in connection with the supervision of foreign operations of the Federal 
Reserve System and the membership of the Chairman of the Board on the 
National Advisory Council on International Monetary and Financial 
Policies. 
( e) Division of Bank Operations, headed by a Director, advises 
and assists the Board with respect to matters concerning the operation 
of the Federal Reserve Banks and the printing, issue, and redemption 
of Federal Reserve notes; collects and prepares data regarding the con-
dition, operations, expenses, and earnings of Reserve Banks; and 
maintains liaison with the Treasury Department and other Government 
agencies on fiscal agency operations of Reserve Banks. 
(f) Division of Examinations, headed by a Director, 
Periodically examines the Federal Reserve Banks and reviews and 
appraises their audit activities; coordinates the bank supervisory 
functions of the System and evaluates the examination procedures of 
the Reserve Banks; exercises general supervision of the commercial 
and fiduciary activities of State member banks; administers the super-
visory features of laws and regulations relating to affiliates and 
bank holding companies; supervises various foreign banking activities 
of member banks and foreign banking and financing corporations; ad-
ministers the public disclosure provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, as amended, in their application to State member banks; 

~4" 
3165 
processes and presents to the Board applications filed pursuant to 
the Bank Holding Company Act and the Bank Merger Act and various 
other applications submitted under the provisions of the Federal 
Reserve Act or related statutes; and advises the Board regarding 
developments in banking and bank supervisory policies and procedures. 
(g) Division of Personnel Administration, headed by a 
Director, is responsible for the administration of the Board's per-
sonnel program, serves as the Board's security office, and advises 
and assists the Board on personnel matters pertaining to the Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
(h) Divi sion of Administrative Services, headed by a 
Director, serves as the central procurement, duplicating, communica-
tions, and service unit of the Board and advises and assists the 
Board with respect to such matters. It also performs various adminis-
trative functions, including the distribution of Board publications 
and the operation of the Board's building and other facilities. 
(i) Office of the Controller, headed by the Board's 
Controller, is responsible for maintaining an effective internal 
financial management system, including budgeting, accounting, report-
ln8, internal and contract auditing, and operational analyses; 
determining assessments on the Federal Reserve Banks for funds to 
cover expenses of the Board; receiving and disbursing the Board's 
funds; and handling reimbursement to the Treasury Department for the 
Minting, issuance, and redemption of Federal Reserve notes. 

3 1 6 6 
(j) Office of Defense Planning, headed by a Coordinator, is 
responsible for the development of the Board's defense emergency plan-
ning program, the coordination of that program with those of the Federal 
Reserve Banks and of other Government departments and agencies, and 
promotion of the commercial, bank preparedness program. 
(k) Division of Data Processing, headed by a Director, provides 
systems analysis, programming, and other data processing support for the 
Board and its staff; schedules and operates the Board's electronic and 
automatic data processing equipment; collects and processes statistical 
information on banking developments; advises on statistical methods and 
statistical operations; and advises on the design of and prepares graphic 
displays in connection with economic analyses and presentations. 
(1) Other personnel. In addition to the Divisions mentioned 
above, the staff of the Board includes Advisers and Assistants to the 
Board and a Legislative Counsel. The Federal Reserve Bulletin is issued 
monthly under the direction of a Staff Editorial Committee. The Board 
does not employ hearing officers as regular members of its staff; but, 
in accordance with applicable provisions of law and in individual cases 
a s the need may arise, the Board obtains and utilizes hearing officers, 
whose functions in such capacity are appropriately separated, as required 
by law, from investigative and prosecuting functions of the staff. 

3167 
SEC. 4 Field organization. 
(a) Federal Reserve Banks. The 
United States is divided into 12 Federal Reserve districts. In one city 
in each Federal Reserve district there is located a Federal Reserve Bank, 
and in 10 of the districts there are one or more branches of the Federal 
Reserve Bank in other cities. Each Federal Reserve Bank is a separate 
legal entity, created pursuant to the Federal Reserve Act and operating 
under the general supervision of the Board. The locations of the 
12 Federal Reserve Banks and their 24 branches and the boundaries of the 
Federal Reserve district and branch territories are shown in the Appendix. 
Each Federal Reserve Bank, in addition to its other duties, carries out 
local functions for the Board pursuant to instructions of the Board, and 
in many matters acts as the Board's field representative in the Bank's 
district. It assists in the regional administration of the Board's 
regulations and policies, keeps the Board informed of local conditions, 
and recommends such actions as it thinks approprintr- in particular cases. 
In general, persons concerned with Federal Reserve matters should deal 
in the first instance with the Federal Reserve Bank of the appropriate 
district or a branch thereof, and the Board requests all persons to follow 
this procedure. 
(b) Federal Reserve Agents. At each Federal Reserve Bank, one 
o f the three directors of the Bank appointed by the Board is designated 
by the Board as Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Bank and as 
Federal Reserve Agent. He acts as the Board's official representative and 
maintains a local office of the Board on the premises of the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 

3 1 f.8 
SEC. 5 Delegations of authority. The Board does not delegate 
any of its functions relating to rule-making or pertaining principally to 
monetary or credit policies or involving any questions of general policy. 
However, the Board delegates certain of its supervisory and other func-
tions prescribed by statute or regulations of the Board to its members 
or employees or to the Federal Reserve Banks as provided in its Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 265). In addition, the Board 
delegates to the Federal Reserve Banks certain functions not provided for 
by statute or regulations of the Board, including authority to extend the 
time within which certain transactions may be consummated, such as acqui-
sitions of shares by bank holding companies, filing of annual reports by 
bank holding companies, establishments of branches by member banks and by 
foreign banking and financing corporations, and accomplishment of member-
ship of State banks in the Federal Reserve System. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 9th day of August, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 1 G 9 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 7 
8/9/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 262 - RULES OF PROCEDURE 
1. Effective immediately, Part 262 is revised to read as 
follows: 
Sec. 
262.1 Basis and scope. 
262.2 Procedure for regulations. 
262.3 Applications. 
262.4 Adjudication with formal hearing. 
262.5 Appearance and practice. 
262.6 Forms 
AUTHORITY. The provisions of this Part 262 issued under sec. 
552, Title 5, United States Code. 
^ 262.1 Basis and scope. 
This Part is issued pursuant to section 552 of Title 5 of the 
Uriited States Code, which requires that every agency shall publish in 
the Federal Register statements of the general course and method by 
w*Uch its functions are channeled and determined and rules of procedure 
and descriptions of forms available or the places at which forms may be 
obtained. 
® 262.2 Procedure for regulations. 
(a) Notice. Notices of proposed regulations of the Board or 
amendments thereto are published in the Federal Register, except as 
sPecified in paragraph (e) of this section or otherwise excepted by law. 
S u ch notices include a statement of the terms of the proposed regulations 
or amendments and a description of the subjects and issues involved; but 

3170 
the giving of such notices does not necessarily indicate the Board's 
final approval of any feature of any such proposal. The notices also 
include a reference to the authority for the proposed regulations or 
amendments and a statement of the time, place, and nature of public 
Participation. 
0>) Public participation. The usual method of public sub-
mission of data, views, or arguments is in writing. It is ordinarily 
Preferable that they be sent to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank, 
which forwards them to the Board. The locations of the 12 Federal 
Reserve Banks and the boundaries of the Federal Reserve districts are 
shown in the Appendix to the Board's Rules of Organization. 
(c) Preparation of draft and action by Board. In the light 
°f consideration of all relevant matter presented or ascertained, the 
Legal Division, in collaboration with other Divisions of the Board's 
staff, prepares drafts of proposed regulations or amendments, and the 
staff submits them to the Board. The Board takes such action as it deems 
aPpropriate in the public interest. Any other documents that may be 
necessary to carry out any decision by the Board in the matter are usually 
Prepared by the Legal Division, in collaboration with the other Divisions 
the staff. 
(d) Effective dates. Any substantive regulation or amendment 
thereto issued by the Board is published not less than 30 days prior to 
the effective date thereof, except as specified in paragraph (e) of this 
section or as otherwise excepted by law. 

3171 
(e) Exceptions as to notice or effective date. In certain 
situations, notice and public participation with respect to proposed 
regulations may be impracticable, unnecessary, contrary to the public 
interest, or otherwise not required in the public interest, or there 
roay be reason and good cause in the public interest why the effective 
date should not be deferred for 30 days. The reason or reasons in such 
cases usually are that such notice, public participation, or deferment 
°f effective date would prevent the action from becoming effective as 
Promptly as necessary in the public interest, would permit speculators 
°r others to reap unfair profits or to interfere with the Board's actions 
taken with a view to accommodating commerce and business and with regard 
t o their bearing upon the general credit situation of the country, would 
Provoke other consequences contrary to the public interest, would un-
reasonably interfere with the Board's necessary functions with respect 
t o management or personnel, would not aid the persons affected, or would 
otherwise serve no useful purpose. The following may be mentioned as 
s°me examples of situations in which advance notice or deferred effective 
J 
a t e , or both, will ordinarily be omitted in the public interest: The 
review and determination of discount rates established by Federal Reserve 
^anks, and changes in general requirements regarding reserves of member 
kanks, maximum interest rates on time and savings deposits, or credit 
for purchasing or carrying securities. 

" 4 ~ 
3 1 7 2 
§ 262.3 Applications. 
(a) Form. Any application, request, or petition (hereafter 
referred to as "application") for the approval, authority, determina-
tion, or permission of the Board with respect to any action for which 
such approval, authority, determination, or permission is required by 
law or regulation of the Board (including actions authorized to be taken 
by a Federal Reserve Bank or others on behalf of the Board pursuant to 
authority delegated under Part 265) shall be submitted in accordance 
with the pertinent form, if any, listed in § 262.6. Copies of any such 
form and details regarding information to be included therein may be 
obtained from any Federal Reserve Bank. Any application for which no 
form is listed in § 262.6 should be signed by the person making the 
application or by his duly authorized agent, should state the facts 
involved, the action requested, and the applicant's interest in the 
Matter, and should indicate the reasons why the application should be 
granted. Applications for access to, or copying of, records of the Board 
should be submitted as provided in § 261.4(d) of this Chapter. 
(b) Procedure. Any application should be sent to the Federal 
p 
reserve Bank of the district in which the person making the application 
i s located, and that Bank will forward it to the Board when appropriate. 
Reserve Bank makes such investigation as may be necessary and re-
Ports the relevant facts, with its recommendation, to the Board, 

- 5 - 
1 ^ ^ 
(c) Comments by staff. In the light of consideration of all 
relevant matter presented or ascertained, the Board's staff prepares and 
submits to the Board comments on the subject. The Board in due course 
takes such action as it deems appropriate in the public interest. 
Such 
documents as may be necessary to carry out any decision by the Board 
are prepared by the Board's staff. With respect to actions taken by a 
Federal Reserve Bank on behalf of the Board under delegated authority, 
statements and necessary documents are prepared by the staff of such 
Federal Reserve Bank. 
(d) Notice of granting or denial. Prompt notice is given to 
the applicant of the granting or denial in whole or in part of any applica-
tion. in the case of a denial, except in affirming a prior denial or 
where the denial is self-explanatory, such notice is accompanied by a 
simple statement of the grounds for such action. 
( e ) Action at Board's initiative. When the Board, without 
receiving an application, takes action with respect to any matter as to 
which opportunity for hearing is not required by statute or Board regula-
t i on, similar procedure is followed, including investigations, reports, 
and recommendations by the Board's staff and by the Reserve Banks, where 
appropriate. 
(f) Bank holding company and merger applications. 
In addition 
t o procedures applicable under other provisions of this Part, the following 
Procedures are applicable in connection with the Board's consideration 

3174 
of applications under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842), hereafter called "holding company applications", and 
of applications under section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1828), hereafter called "merger applications". Unless 
otherwise indicated, these procedures apply to both types of applications. 
(1) The Board issues each week a list that identifies holding 
company and merger applications received during the preceding week. 
Notice of receipt of each holding company application is published in 
the Federal Register as provided in § 222.4(e)(2) of this Chapter 
[Regulation Y]. 
(2) If a hearing is required by law or if the Board deter-
mines that a hearing for the purpose of taking evidence is desirable, 
the Board issues an order for such a hearing, and notice thereof is 
Published in the Federal Register. Any such hearing is conducted by 
a hearing examiner or hearing officer in accordance with the Board's 
Rnles of Practice for Formal Hearings (Part 263 of this Chapter) and, 
unless otherwise ordered by the Board, is public. 
(3) In any case in which a formal hearing is not ordered by 
the Board, the Board may afford the applicant and other properly in-
terested persons (including Governmental agencies) an opportunity to 
Present views orally before the Board or its designated representative. 
Unless otherwise ordered by the Board, any such oral presentation is 
Public and notice of such public proceeding is published in the Federal 
Agister. 

- 7 -
! 
v> 
(4) The Board's action on an application is embodied in 
an Order that indicates the votes of members of the Board and 
is accompanied by a Statement of the reasons for the Board's 
action. Both the Order and accompanying Statement are released 
to the press. Normally, the Statement is issued at the time of 
issuance of the Order; where this is not practicable, the State-
ment is issued as promptly as possible. Each such Order is 
Published in the Federal Register; and the Order and Statement 
are published in the next succeeding issue of the Federal Reserve 
Bulletin. 
(5) (i) Each Order of the Board approving a holding company 
application includes, pursuant to the Act approved July 1, 1966 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1849(b)), a requirement that the transaction approved 
sha.ll not be consummated before the thirtieth calendar day fol-
1owing the date of such Order. 
(ii) Each Order of the Board 
approving a. merger application includes, pursuant to the Act 
aPProved February 21, 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)(1)(6)), a require-
ment that the transaction approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of such 
Ordpr-
except as the Board may otherwise determine pursuant to 
emergency situations as to which the Act permits consummation 
A £ earlier dates. 
(iii) Each Order approving an application 
a Is ° includes, as a condition of approval, a requirement that 
the transaction approved shall be consummated within three 

3176 
months and, in the case of acquisition by a holding company of 
stock of a newly organized bank, a requirement that such bank 
shall be opened for business within six months, but such periods 
may be extended for good cause by the Board (or by the appropriate 
Federal Reserve Bank where authority to grant such extensions is 
delegated to the Reserve Bank.) 
(6) After action by the Board on an application, the Board 
will not grant any request for reconsideration of its action 
unless the request presents relevant facts that, for good cause 
shown, were not previously presented to the Board, or unless it 
otherwise appears to the Board that reconsideration would be 
appropriate. 
(7) Unless the Board shall otherwise direct, each holding 
company and merger application is made available for inspection 
by the public except for portions thereof as to which the Board 
determines that nondisclosure is warranted under section 552(b) 
of Title 5 of the United States Code. 
§ 262.4 Adjudication with formal hearing. 
In connection with adjudication with respect to which a 
hearing is required by law or is ordered by the Board, the procedure 
is set forth in Part 263 of this Chapter, entitled "Rules of Practice 
for Formal Hearings". 

- 9 -
Q 4 
-y 
l > J / / 
§ 262.5 Appearance and practice. 
Appearance and practice before the Board in all matters 
are governed by § 263.3 of this Chapter. 
§ 262.6 Forms. 
The following forms, which are available at the Federal 
Reserve Banks, shall be used for the purposes indicated: 
Form 
30 
Application for Federal Reserve Bank Stock—Organizing 
National Bank 
30a 
Application for Federal Reserve Bank Stock—Nonmember State 
Bank Converting into National Bank 
56 
Application for Adjustment in Holdings of Federal Reserve 
Bank ..Stock (Except by Mutual Savings Banks) 
56a 
Application of Mutual Savings Bank for Adjustment in Holdings 
of Federal Reserve Bank Stock 
70 
Application for Prior Written Consent to Effect a Merger or 
Other Transaction Pursuant to Section 18(c) of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act (Resulting Bank to be a State Member 
Bank) 
83 
Application for Membership in the Federal Reserve System 
(Cover Sheet) 
83A 
Application for Membership in the Federal Reserve System 
(State Banks except Mutual Savings Banks) 
83B 
Application for Membership in the Federal Reserve System 
(Mutual Savings Banks Authorized to Purchase Stock in 
Federal Reserve Bank) 
83C 
Application for Membership in the Federal Reserve System 
(Mutual Savings Banks Not Permitted to Subscribe for Stock 
in Federal Reserve Bank) 
83D 
Application for Stock in the Federal Reserve Bank (Mutual 
Savings Bank Admitted to Membership upon Deposit of Appro-
priate Amount with Federal Reserve Bank and Now Permitted 
to Subscribe for Federal Reserve Bank Stock under Laws under 
Which Organized) 
83E 
Certificate of Directors and Cashier 
86 
Application for Cancellation of Federal Reserve Bank Stock— 
Liquidating Member Bank 
86a 
Application for Cancellation of Federal Reserve Bank Stock--
Member Bank Merging or Consolidating with Nonmember Bank 

3 1 7 8 
- 10 -
86b 
Application for Cancellation of Federal Reserve Bank Stock--
Converting National Bank 
87 
Application for Cancellation of Federal Reserve Bank Stock--
Insolvent Member Bank 
105 
Report of Condition of State Member Bank 
105e 
(Form 105e)--Report of Condition of State Member Bank 
(Publisher's Copy) 
107 
Report of Income and Dividends of State Member Bank 
(Calendar Year) 
107b 
Report of Income and Dividends of State Member Bank 
(6-Month Period) 
151 
Articles of Association—Corporation To Do Business under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
152 
Organization Certificate—Corporation To Do Business under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
220 
Report of an Affiliate of a State Member Bank 
220a 
Report of an Affiliate of a State Member Bank (Publisher's Copy) 
240 
Report of Member Firm of a National Securities Exchange 
314 
Report of Condition by Foreign Banking Corporation (Semiannual) 
391 
Monthly Report on Foreign Claims 
414 
Computation of Reserve to be Carried with Federal Reserve Bank 
by Member Bank 
F-l 
Registration Statement for Securities of a Bank 
F-2 
Annual Report 
F-3 
Current Report 
F-4 
Quarterly Report 
F-5 
Proxy Statement; Statement Where Management Does Not Solicit 
Proxies 
F-6 
Statement in Election Contest 
F-7 
Initial Statement of Beneficial Ownership of Securities 
F-8 
Statement of Changes in Beneficial Ownership of Securities 
F-9 
Financial Statements 
F-10 
Registration Statement for Additional Classes of Securities 
of a Bank 
F-20 
Amendment to Registration Statement or Periodic Report of Bank 
T"1 
Agreement, Resolution, Certificate--to Qualify under 
Section 8(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
T-2 
Agreement, Resolution, Certificate--to Qualify under 
Section 8(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Bank 
with Principal Place of Business outside 50 States of 
United States) 
Y-l 
Application for Prior Approval of Action to Become a Bank 
Holding Company Pursuant to Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 
Y"lA 
Certificate of Directors or Other Governing Body Authorizing 
Application Pursuant to Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 

- 1 1 - 
- ? 1 7 9 
Y-2 
Application for Prior Approval of Acquisition of Bank 
Shares Pursuant to.Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 
Y-2A 
Certificate of Directors or Other Governing Body Authorizing 
Application Pursuant to Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 
Y-5 
Registration Statement of Bank Holding Company Pursuant to 
Section 5(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
Y-6 
Annual Report of Bank Holding Company Pursuant to the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 
2.a. This action is pursuant to and in accordance with the 
provisions of section 552 of Title 5 of the United States Code. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effective 
dates, are not followed in connection with the adoption of this action, 
because the rules involved are procedural in nature and accordingly do 
not constitute substantive rules subject to the requirements of such 
section. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 9th day of August, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 1 8 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
8/9/67 
. 0 
w 
iUiif 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
•i'V 
•CjlGtl '.'iialt. 
August 17, 1967. 
! ft 
Mr. Edward A. Wayne, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Wayne: 
As a result of changes in plans for computer and 
communications facilities, the Board has approved an in-
crease not to exceed $470,000 in the cost of the building 
at Culpeper for the purposes shown in the enclosed 
tabulation, which is based on- information received from 
Mr. Dickerson. 
Very truly yours, 
\ t t *- 
; * 1 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 
'SUCH 
0ynti a^c.1iy 
• •. -'•'•} 
••$405 
sd-i't-11' 
'Ud'-iiV?. 

u 
81.81 
CULPEPER MODIFICATIONS AND PRELIMINARY COST ESTIMATES^' 
1. Modifications due to enlarging space. 
C02 System 
$ 20,000 
Raised Floor 
13,000 
Dropping 6" Slab, changes to Ramps, Door-
ways, Tape Vault, Walls and Other Misc. 
12,000 
Subtotal 
$ 45,000 
2. Power Supply. 
Fourth diesel generator 
$110,000 
Increase in transformers, conduit, etc. 
50,000 
Increase in number of power panels 
(2 to 8) 
25,000 
Structural change in generator pit for 
4th generator 
30,000 
Subtotal 
$215,000 
3. Air Conditioning. 
Larger compressors, changes in humidifiers, 
thermostats, size of ducts and outlets, 
etc. 
$ 83.000 
Subtotal 
$ 83.000 
Total Direct 
$343,000 
O.H. and Profit 
60,000 
Subtotal 
$403,000 
Contingency Fee (10%) 
40,000 
Subtotal 
$443,000 
Architectural and Engineering Fees 
27,000 
Total 
$470,000 
1/ Received from Mr. Gordon Dickerson, Richmond Federal Reserve Bank, 
July 28, 1967. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
31 82 
Item No. 9 
8/9/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
* -t .;•» • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1967 
i it • > 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 2, 1967, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointmentofJohn 
Pierce Hammond as an assistant examiner * * the .Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective August 20, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
( . 
mmmm

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF N E W Y O R K 
: M R 3 
N E W 
Y O R K , N . V . 
1 0 0 4 5 
item No. 10 
8/9/67 
AREA COOK sua 
me 
a-STOO 
AUGfl / 567 
Mr. Theodore W. Egly, Jr. 
Executive Vice President 
and Secretary-
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Rockland 
County 
Nyack, New York 
Dear Mr. E g l y : 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting 
under delegated authority, approves the establishment by 
Marine Midland Trust Company of Rockland County of a branch 
°n the south side of Route 17M, approximately kjO feet east 
the intersection of Route 17M and Still Road, Village of 
Monroe, Orange County, New York, conditioned upon consummation 
the proposed merger of County National Bank, Middletown, 
New York and Citizens Bank of Monroe, Monroe, New York, and 
Provided the branch is established within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
i s actually established and opened for business, giving the 
effective date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will 
*>e known, and the official postal address, including the zip 
co&e number. 
Please acknowledge receipt by signing and returning 
t o us the enclosed copy of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred W. Piderlt, Jr. 
Vice President 
^ c l o s u r e 

C O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
DALLAS. TEXAS 75222 
3 1 8 4 
Item No. 11 
8/9/67 
August 9; 1?67 
Mr. Lewis C. Vencill 
Executive Vice President 
Grant County Bank 
Silver City Office 
. 
, 
P. 0. BOK M p 
Silver City, «ew Mexico S£o5l 
Dear I-Ir. Vencill: 
•phis refers to the request contained in your letter 
of August h} 19 JT, for approval of an additional expenditure 
of approximtely $9,0-00 for the purpose of constructing new 
"banking quarters . 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank 
approved an additional 
investment in bank presses uy Grant County Bank, Bayard, How 
Mexico, of $9,000 for the construction of new banking quarters. 
Tills approval is panted under the provisions of Section 2kA 
of the Federal neserve Act and is in addition to the expendi-
ture of approximately §Ch, 9'+9 approved by the Board of Gover-
nors in their letter of June 19* 19->7« 
Sincerely, 
Thocias P.., Sullivan 
Vice President 
bcc: Board of Governors of the ^^^ 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, I). C. 20551 
