MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 12, 1969 

3435 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 12, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

3436-
11/12/69 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bellefontaine 
National Bank, Bellefontai ne, Ohio, and The Farmers Banking Company, 
West Liberty, Ohio. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Farmers Banking 
Company, West Liberty, and Bellefontaine National Bank. However, if 
the merger is consummated there would remain several alternative sources 
of banking services, and the overall competitive effect of the trans-
action would be slightly adverse. 
Citizens Bancorporation. In a memorandum dated October 31, 1969, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section of the Division of Research and Statistics recommended approval 
of the application of Citizens Bancorporation, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to 
become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the 
following banks in Sheboygan: Citizens Bank of Sheboygan, North Side 
State Bank, and Community South Side Bank. The Examination Department 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had also recommended approval, although 
the Bank's Research Department had recommended denial. 
Discussion at today's meeting led to agreement to defer action 
pending exploration of questions that were raised regarding the extent 
and significance of common ownership of the institutions involved. 
Regulation G question. The law firm of Kelley Drye Newhall 
Maginnes and Warren, New York, New York, was counsel for a company that 

3437 
11/12/69 
-3-
was to be formed for the purpose of discovering investment opportunities 
in which it and selected investors would participate. The firm had 
requested that the Board determine whether certain stock-secured "purpose 
credit" transactions to be conducted by the company would be subject to 
Regulation G, Securities Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, 
or Dealers, if the credit was extended within a corporate family. In 
a memorandum dated November 7, 1969, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation commented on the proposed transactions in relation to 
Regulation G and recommended that response be made to the law firm in 
the terms of a draft letter attached to the memorandum. 
After discussion at today's meeting the letter was approved 
unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
United Nations questionnaire. The United Nations had requested 
that the Board respond to a questionnaire regarding methods for making 
and receiving international payments. On August 7, 1969, the Board 
approved a recommendation by Mr. Hackley that committees of the Conference 
of First Vice Presidents that deal with collection matters be requested 
to draft a reply to the questionnaire. In a memorandum dated November 6, 
1969, Mr. Hackley described subsequent negotiations relating to the 
questionnaire. Attached to his memorandum were the replies prepared by 
Conference subcommittees and a suggested letter to the United Nations. 
Discussion developed agreement upon expansion of the draft letter 
to include comments on the importance of wire transfers in the payments 

3438 
11/12/69 
-4-
mechanism. The letter and the responses to the questionnaire were then 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
A copy of the responses to the questionnaire has been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Proposed amendments to Regulation F. In a memorandum dated 
November 6, 1969, the Legal Division and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended that the Board publish for comment proposed 
amendments to Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks, relating 
principally to implementation of previously announced changes in bank 
accounting and to revision of provisions regarding proxy solicitation. 
Drafts of the amendments and of a press release describing their sub-
stance were attached to the memorandum. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously approved 
publishing the proposed amendments for comment. The press release was 
also unanimously approved in a form reflecting changes agreed upon 
during discussion. A copy of the press release is attached as Item No. 3; 
a copy of the Federal Register document has been placed in the Board's 
files. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Interest rate ceilings. As reported by Governor Robertson, at 
a meeting of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation 

3439 
11/12/69 
-5-
on Monday, November 10, Chairman Martin of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board indicated that the Bank Board, being concerned about the recent 
erosion of funds at insured savings and loan associations and foreseeing 
the likelihood of a further aggravation of the problem in the period 
ahead, was giving serious consideration to affording a measure of relief 
to the thrift institutions by raising to 5-1/2 per cent the maximum rate 
on certificates with a maturity of six months or more and by authorizing 
the sale of five-year certificates at a rate of 6 per cent. Mr. Martin 
had argued that the contemplated action was intended principally to enable 
the savings and loans to retain funds by competing more effectively against 
the market and that it should not result in pulling any significant amount 
of funds away from the commercial banks. 
The Comptroller of the Currency, Mr. Camp, and the Chairman of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Mr. Randall, were said by 
Governor Robertson to have expressed strong opposition, the latter having 
indicated that if a move were made by the Home Loan Bank Board he would 
favor taking action to close the gap that presently existed between the 
ceiling rates for banks and savings and loan associations, respectively. 
Governor Robertson said he had commented only to the effect that the Board 
of Governors no doubt would want to consider all available options. 

3440 
11/12/69 
-6-
An exploratory discussion followed during which the problem 
was reviewed within the context of the present posture of monetary 
policy as well as from'the standpoint of competitive relationships 
between the Nation's banks and the thrift institutions. Reference also 
was made to the problems confronting the mutual savings banks and to 
difficulties being encountered by State and local governments in 
arranging financing. 
Preliminary views expressed by Board members were mixed. Two 
members (Governors Daane and Brimmer) believed that an effort should 
be made to dissuade the Home Loan Bank Board from taking action on the 
ceilings at this time, a view that appeared to coincide with the thinking 
of the Board's research staff. Chairman Martin also expressed a preference 
for maintaining the status quo for the time being, adding, however, that 
if a move should be made by the Bank Board he felt that some measure of 
relief for the commercial banks probably would be in order. Governor 
Maisel viewed more sympathetically the case for action in respect to the 
savings and loan associations and cited reasons why he felt that a 
differential in the rate ceilings should be preserved. He urged that 
the Board, in studying the situation, focus its thinking primarily on 
monetary policy considerations and that it endeavor to anticipate how the 
economic and financial picture might have developed several months from 

34 $1 
11/12/69 
-7-
now. Governor Mitchell was inclined, at least pending more detailed 
study, toward the view that a rather good case could be made for 
action in the relatively near future to raise the interest rate ceilings 
generally. 
It was understood that the subject would be discussed further 
by the Board at a meeting tomorrow morning. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
fir Secretary 
/ 

I T 
T? 
11 > *-> 
vr ± 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
..^o^V-. 
D F f h C 
11/12/69 
. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
AODRESS QRFICIAI. CHKRESPD^DENCI 
TC THE HOARD 
November 12, 1969. 
Mr. Albert J. Walker, 
Kelley Drye Newhall Maginnes 
and Warren, 
350 Park Avenue, 
New York, New Yorl< . 10022 
Dear Mr. Walker: 
This refers to your letter of June 9, 1969, in which you ask 
that the Board of Governors determine whether an arrangement between a 
company and its principal executive officer, whereby credit would be 
extended to the executive by the company for the purpose of purchasing 
from it securities of other issuers, would be subject to Regulation G, 
'Securities Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers". 
Your letter states that a company is to be formed for the 
Purpose of discovering investment opportunities in which it and selected 
investors would participate. Securities deemed worthy of investment 
Would be acquired by payment in full for such stock. If credit is 
extended to the company and the investors in connection with any such 
acquisition, the requirements of Federal Reserve Regulations G, T, or 
u would be complied with, to the extent they apoly. 
An employment contract with the company's principal executive 
officer permits him to participate in such investments, without risk up 
to a stated amount, by means of company-arranged financing. The fin-
ancing may consist of a loan from the company secured by his partici-
pation and his stock interest in the company, or by a company-guaranteed 
loan from third parties with the guaranty secured by the same collateral. 
In any event, if t/iere be any ultimate, loss as to the executive's share 
such acquisitions, you represent that such loss will not be borne by 
the executive but rather by the company. In addition, the company would 
a V e the right of 'first refusal" if the executive should want to dis-
pose of any or all of his participation. 
You acknowledge that the Board's margin regulations would 
ordinarily apply if the securities, acquired by the executive by means 
o f the financing arrangements described above, are margin securities. 

Mr. Albert J. Walker 
- 
2 
-
3443 
However, since the. requirements of the Board's margin regulations will 
have been sat:sfied to the extent that any credit is involved in the 
company and investors' acquisition of the securities, you maintain that 
such regulations should not apply to the executive's acquisition of 
such securities from the company on credit. Because the executive 
would obtain the credit and securities from the company, you submit 
that no additional credit would flow into the securities markets and 
the policies underlying Regulation G would -not be circumvented. 
\ 
Section 207.1(a) of Regulation G provides that a person is 
subject to the registration and other requirements of the regulation 
if, in the ordinary course of his business, he extends credit on 
collateral of $50,000 or more in any calendar quarter, or has such 
credit outstanding in any calendar quarter in the amount of $100,000 
or more. Such a person may not extend or arrange for the extension of 
credit secured directly or indirectly by margin securities in amounts 
exceeding the maximum loan value of the collateral, as prescribed in 
§ 207.5 (the Supplement to Regulation G) , if the. credit is for the 
purpose of puichasing or carrying margin securities. 
Section 207.2(b) defines the term "in the ordinary course of 
bis business" to include, in the case of a person other than an indi-
vidual, carrying out or in furtherance of any business purpose. In 
general, special employee credit arrangements are designed to provide 
a company's executives with an additional f :rm of remuneration. Such 
arrangements increase the company's ability to attract and retain able 
personnel and. accordingly, promote the interest of the company and its 
stockholders, while at the same time providing the company's executives 
with additional incentive to contribute toward the company's success. 
An arrangement: whereby a key executive may narticipate in investment 
opportunities through "risk-free" financing arranged by the company is 
likewise designed to promote the company's Interest and is, therefore, 
in furtherance of a business purpose. 
As a general rule, the source of the credit rather than the 
identity of the seller of the securities is a relevant consideration 
in determining; whether the Board's margin regulations are applicable to 
a particular situation. It does not appear material in this case whether 
the executive acquires his investment participations from the company 
by resale, or from some other source. Accordingly, if the company 
extends or arranges for the extension of the requisite, amount of credit 
to its principal executive officer on collateral that includes margin 
securities, the company would become a "person subject to Regulation G" 
and be required to register and comply with all other applicable pro-
visions of the regulation. 

Mr. Albert: J. Walker 
- 3 -
3444 
It should be noted, parenthetically, that company-guaranteed 
credit extended to the executive by others would be considered "indirectly 
secured" by his stock interest in the company and his investment partici-
pations which serve as collateral for the guaranty. Because such secu-
rities would be desposited with a third party--the company--to be held 
until the credit is .repaid, they would be out of the executives1s control 
for the duration of the loan and would serve to some extent to protect 
th* lender <'Sr=e II 6400.2, Published Interpretations of the Board of 
Governors, 12 GFR 221.113(f)). If the lender is a bank and the loan is 
"purpose credit" as defined in § 221.3(b)(1) of Regulation U ("Credit 
by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks1'), such 
credit could r.ot exceed the maximum loan value of the stock serving as 
indirect secuiity for the credit, as prescribed in § 221.4 (the Supple-
ment to Regulation U). Similar limitations would apply to such credit, 
extended bv a person subject to Regulation G, if the collateral which 
indirectly secures the credit includes "margin securities", as defined 
by § 2.07.2(d) of that regulation. 
Very truly yours, 
( K i U c r 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

KJ 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
OF the 
11/12/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONOtNCE 
TD THE DCAR O 
November 17, 1969 
Mr. Constantly A. Stavropoulos, 
The Legal Counsel, 
United Nations, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Dear Mr. Stavropoulos: 
This is in response to your letter of July 30, 1969, 
addressed to Chairman Martin, stating that :he United Nations 
Commission on International Trade Law has decided to study the 
possibility of creating a new negotiable instrument to be used 
in international transactions only and requesting the assistance 
of the Board by replying to an enclosed questionnaire and annex 
thereto. 
In connection with preparation of replies to the 
questionnaire, the Board requested the assistance of certain 
standing committees of the Conference of First Vice Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks that have general familiarity with 
the subject of negotiable instruments. There are enclosed here-
with a copy of replies to the questionnaire, identified as 
Appendix A, an-1 a copy of replies to the annex to the question-
naire, identified as Appendix B, as prepared by these System 
committees. 
In preparing the replies, the System committees 
consulted representatives of the Bankers Association on Foreign 
Trade and others within and without the Federal Reserve System 
who have specialized knowledge of the subject matter. However, 
it must be emphasized that, because of the early deadline for 
completion of the replies, the committees were unable to make 
a comprehensive and intensive study of the matter and that, 
therefore, the replies should be regarded as tentative. It 
may also be noted that the committees made no effort to collect 
underlying data since it was their understanding that the drafts-
men of the questionnaire intended that trends rather than precise 
quantities be indicated in the responses. 

Mr. Constantin A. Stavropoulos 
-2-
The replies prepared by the System committees express a 
general conclusion that, in the absence of more concrete evidence, 
the experiences of the United States banks contributing to the study 
made by the committees are not consistent with a pressing need for 
change along the lines contemplated by the Commission. The Federal 
Reserve System will nonetheless maintain ar open mind with respect 
to the need fsr the creation of a new form of negotiable instrument 
for use in international transactions and will review the matter 
again if any further evidence comes to light demonstrating the need 
for such an instrument. Similarly, the replies by the System com-
mittees to the annex to the questionnaire are subject to review and 
possible revision in the light of any facts that may lead the 
Commission to decide that a new negotiable instrument for use in 
international transactions is desirable. If such a decision were 
made, the devising of an appropriate instrument for this purpose 
and of rules governing its use would appear to call for further 
investigation and study and for substantive decisions by the com-
mercial banking community of the United Staces. 
As indicated in the answer to question 2 of the 
questionnaire (Appendix A, p. 2), about 90 per cent of the dollar 
volume of payiaents arising from international transactions and 
originating or terminating in the United States are effected by 
inter-bank and intra-bank transfers - that is, wire and mail trans-
fers and payment orders. Quite apart from any question as to the 
need for a new form of negotiable instrument, the Board of Governors 
would favor any steps that might be taken to bring about a more 
general use of wire transfers as a means of effectuating payments 
in internatior.al transactions. 
The Federal Reserve Banks are now installing advanced 
data processirg and transmission equipment vhich will expand their 
capacity for handling domestic credit or debit wire transfers by 
at least twelve fold. The expectation is that these facilities 
will accommodate all of the larger transactions between financial 
institutions and business enterprises on a same-day charge and 
credit basis. A similar processing arrangement for international 
transactions is consistent with present-day technological capacities 
and would both expedite and make transfers more certain. 
The Board hopes that the enclosed replies will be of 
assistance to the Commission in connection with its study of this 
matter. Since it is understood that the United States Department 
of State and the American Bankers Association were also requested 

3447 
Mr. Constantin A. Stavropoulos 
-3-
to respond to the questionnaire and annex, we are taking the 
liberty of sending to them for their information copies of the 
enclosed replies. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 

Item No. 3 
11/12/69 
For release in morning papers, 
November 13, 1969. 
Friday, November 14, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Feder.il Reserve System today 
3. s sued for comment proposed amendments to its Regulation F, "Securities 
o 1. Member State Aanks," 
relating to the form and content: of commercial 
bank financial statements and proxy solicitation provisions. This 
Regulation applies the disclosure provisions of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 to the securities of State member banks that have 500 or more 
stockholders. 
Iho major change proposed by the amendments is to implement the 
not income" concept in bank income reports, an action announced by the 
Board on July 1.8, J 969, Briefly, the effect of the proposed change would 
to (1) require a bank to recognize a loan loss factor in reporting 
operating expenses, (2) require securities gains and losses to be 
reported, as realized, in a bank's statement of income, and (3) design te 
the last line in the statement of income as "net income". In addition, 
per share earnings would be required to be reported. Other amendments 
*elating to financial statement reporting are also proposed. The 
proposed revisions are intended to make financial reports required by 
Regulation F consistent with the format and instructions for preparation 
of reports periodically called by the Federal banking agencies. 
Extensive revisions of the regulatory provisions as they 
relate to proxy solicitations are also proposed. These amendments are 

"isinly intended to clarify the applicability of the various provisions 
of the regulation and to incorporate administrative practices adopted 
during the five ) ears since Regulation F was first adopted, generally, 
without imposing any additional requirements. 
Under the proposed amendments, reports of all banks subject to 
Regulation F would be available for public inspection at the New York, 
Chicago, and San Francisco Reserve Banks, at the Board's offices in 
Washington, and at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Washington 
Headquarters« 
The nine other Federal Reserve banks would have available 
jf°r inspection only those reports of Regulation F banks located in their 
own Federal Reserve districts. 
In addition, the amendment would reduce the time permitted 
for banks to file annual reports with the Board from 120 to 90 days 
after the close of its fiscal year, or within 
days of the mailing 
o t a bank's annual report to stockholders, whichever first occurs. The 
time permitted foi banks to file quarterly repcrts would be reduced from 
^ days to 30 day*; after the close of each quarter. 
Comments on the proposed amendments should be sent to the 
Secretary, Board cf Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20351, to be received not later than December 5, 1969. 
Attached are the texts of the proposed amendments in the form 
Xr» which they will be submitted for publication in the Federal Register. 
Copies of amendments to Form F-?, "Annual Report," Form F-4, "Quarterly 
Report," Form F-5, "Proxy Statement; Statement Where Management Does Not 
Solicit Proxies,' and Form F-9, "Financial Statements," or of the forms 
a s Proposed to be revised, are available upon request. 
-0-
^ttachment 
