MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 23, 1969 

3886 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 23, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

3887 
12/23/69 
- 2 -
The following letters were approved unanimously after 
consideration of background information that had been made available 
to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust 
1 
and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, granting permission to establish 
a branch in Balboa, Canal Zone. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
2 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting 
consent to the acquisition of a Brazilian 
holding company in the process of formation 
and to continue to hold stock in that company 
after acquisition by it of shares of Banco 
Crefisul de Investimento S.A., Porto Alegre, 
Brazil. 
Letters to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
3-4 
(1) enrolled bill S. 2577, "To lower interest 
rates and fight inflation; to help housing, 
small business, and employment; to increase 
the availability of mortgage credit; and for 
other purposes," and (2) enrolled bill 
H.R. 14580, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1969. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget in response 
5 
to its invitation to recommend proposed changes 
in Government organization under the Executive 
Reorganization provisions of Title 5 of the 
United States Code. 
In connection with 11em No. 1, Governor Brimmer noted that 
because of political overtones that were involved he had chosen to 
bring the application to the attention of the Board rather than to act 
on it under delegated authority. The State Department had concluded 

3 S 8 8 
12/23/69 
- 3 -
that the establishment of the proposed branch would not be in 
violation of existing treaties, as had been charged by the Government 
of Panama, and in his opinion approval was in order. 
Central Banking System. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 9, 1971, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order and statement, had been distributed 
in connection with an application of Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California, to acquire shares of Tahoe National Bank, South 
Lake Tahoe, California. 
In discussion, it was noted that the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the primary supervisor of Tahoe National Bank, strongly 
recommended approval of the acquisition as a means of strengthening 
management and injecting additional needed capital into the bank. 
While recognizing the special circumstances surrounding the 
present application, some members of the Board expressed concern 
about the capital position of the holding company system, as reflected 
principally in the somewhat less than satisfactory capital position 
of its lead bank. It was suggested that in the letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco advising of the Board's action on the 
instant application there be included a paragraph reflecting such 
concern and indicating that significant weight would be attributed to 
the capital condition of the lead bank in considering any further 
bank acquisitions proposed by Central Banking System. 

3 8 9 S 
12/23/69 
- 4 -
The application was then approved unanimously and the 
issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the 
documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 6, and a copy of 
the letter sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 7. 
Call Report. With a staff memorandum dated December 19, 
1969, there had been submitted a draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Banks that would be used in transmitting year-end call report 
forms for use by State member banks and affiliates, including one-
time supplements on credit card plans and bank affiliates. The letter 
also contained changes and clarification of reporting instructions, 
the substance of which had been agreed upon earlier by the Board, and 
discussed the extent to which call report data should be made available 
to outside parties. 
Following discussion, the letter was approved unanimously; 
a copy is attached as 11em No. 8. 
Preauthorized payment plans. The Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
had published for comment a proposed change in its regulations that 
would give savings and loan associations authority to honor shareholder 
requests in the form of non-negotiable or non-transferable orders or 
authorizations to pay amounts in savings accounts to third parties. 
Transfers effected by checks or other negotiable instruments would 
continue to be prohibited. The non-transferable orders or authoriza-
tions could designate payment of a single obligation, and in addition 

3890 
12/23/69 
- 5 -
orders or authorizations instructing the association to pay a 
member's periodic obligations, such as utility bills, could be 
honored even if .the amounts to be paid were not specified. More-
over, these orders or authorizations could be honored by direct 
transfer to a savings account of a third party, if the third party 
agreed to this arrangement. 
The proposal had recently been the subject of discussion at 
a joint meeting of the Board of Governors with the Home Loan Bank 
Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and subsequent 
consideration by the staffs of the three agencies. As a result, the 
Board's staff had prepared a memorandum, distributed under date of 
December 16, 1969, which represented a reworking of a memorandum on 
the subject previously furnished to the Board of Governors. The 
memorandum presented an analysis of the economic implications of the 
Bank Board's proposal, including its implications for the payments 
mechanism and for monetary policy. The staff proposed that the 
memorandum be sent to the Bank Board for assistance in connection 
with its further study of the matter. 
After discussion, it was generally agreed that it would be 
appropriate to make the staff comments available to the Home Loan 
Bank Board, and also that it should be pointed out in the transmittal 
letter that the Federal Reserve Board assumed it would be given an 
opportunity by the Bank Board to review its position with respect to 

12/23/69 
4v > 
- 6 -
authorized payment plans, as they applied to member banks, before 
final action was taken by the Bank Board. Further, since the subject 
had been discussed within the Interagency Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation and would be discussed again in that forum, it was 
suggested that copies of the staff memorandum be sent to the Chairman 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and to the Comptroller 
of the Currency for their information. 
The discussion at today's meeting dealt principally with 
the question whether to include in the memorandum, as transmitted, 
certain concluding staff comments, as follows: 
Prudence would appear to demand that, in consideration 
of these many potential problems and issues, considerable 
caution should be exercised in their adoption. Preferably 
this would seem to point to the need for prior study and 
resolution of all the technical and regulatory issues to 
be created by the introduction and operation of these 
plans. If this ideal approach is not acceptable, however, 
it would seem wise to at least move gingerly. One course 
of action meeting this criteria might be initially to pro-
hibit S&L's from making credit transfers among their 
accounts. Another may be to limit the debits (and also 
credits if these are permitted) to certain types of trans-
actions, such as mortgage or rent payments, or payments 
on utility bills. 
One reason given for omitting those comments was that, since 
the Board had not yet adopted a position, it might be placed in an 
awkward posture if the Home Loan Bank Board went forward with a proposal 
incorporating the staff suggestions and such a proposal eventually was 
not favored by the Federal Reserve Board. However, it was noted that 
the memorandum would clearly be transmitted as a staff document, and it 

3832 
12/23/69 
- 7 -
was further suggested that it seemed appropriate at this juncture 
to provide the benefit of the best advice available. In addition, 
it was indicated' that the Board's staff had advanced similar ideas 
orally in discussion with the staff of the Bank Board. 
As to the basic merit of the authorized payment plan scheme, 
views expressed by members of the Board reflected shadings of opinion. 
Some members expressed the view that such a plan should be put into 
effect only after a great deal of study and in a most cautious manner, 
if at all, while other members were more favorably inclined and saw 
the plan generally as a pro-competitive move that, within limits, 
should be encouraged. It was agreed, however, that it was not yet 
time for the Board to take a firm position, pending further consider-
ation by the Coordinating Committee and evaluation of whatever 
proposals the Home Loan Bank Board finally indicated that it intended 
to adopt. 
The sending of a letter to the Home Loan Bank Board in the 
form attached as Item No. 9 was then approved unanimously. A copy of 
the staff memorandum transmitted therewith has been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Delegation of functions. In July 1967 the Board promulgated 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority that assigned to the Board's 
staff and to the Federal Reserve Banks authority to perform certain 
statutory and regulatory functions of the Board. At the same time, 

3893 
12/23/69 
- 8 -
other functions of a nonstatutory, nonregulatory nature (not included 
in the published Rules) also were delegated. Subsequently, the rules 
were amended to deal with specific situations as they arose, but 
there had been no systematic review. 
In a memorandum dated November 7, 1969, the Office of the 
Secretary, following a canvass of the staff, suggested additional 
areas in which functions might be delegated. Certain technical or 
other amendments to existing delegations also were suggested. 
Members of the Board expressed agreement with most of the 
proposals for further delegations of authority, although in a few 
cases only after agreement had been reached on minor changes in the 
terms of the proposed delegation, principally for the purpose of 
clarification. 
Reservations were expressed by some members of the Board 
with respect to the proposal to delegate to the staff authority to 
transmit to the other agencies certain types of reports on the com-
petitive factors involved in merger cases. It appeared to those who 
had reservations that such a delegation of authority might carry an 
implication that the Board was somewhat disinterested in its 
responsibilities relating to bank supervision and the banking structure. 
i 
In view of these expressed reservations, it was agreed not to delegate 
authority in this area at this time, but to keep the matter under study 
along with other questions relating to the handling of bank merger and 
holding company cases. 

12/23/69 
- 9 -
With respect to the proposal to delegate to the Director of 
the Division of International Finance authority to approve the 
establishment of. foreign accounts with the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, it was understood, at the request of Governor Brimmer, that 
the Director would take steps to provide to members of the Board who 
desired it, prompt information on actions taken under such authority. 
With respect to the proposal to delegate to the Director of 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations authority to approve 
proposals by Federal Reserve Banks for repair and alteration projects 
up to $500,000, it was agreed to phrase the delegation in such 
manner that for projects from $100,000 to $500,000 the Director 
would approve only after consultation with the Committee on Organi-
zation, Compensation, and Building Plans. 
With respect to the proposal to delegate to the Federal 
Reserve Banks authority to approve applications of State member banks 
to establish domestic branches, it was noted that under the present 
terms of delegation of authority many applications had to be referred 
to the Board purely for technical reasons. This reflected the fact 
that when the Board originally delegated authority in this area, it 
had proceeded in a conservative fashion pending the development of 
experience. Nevertheless, some members of the Board felt that there 
should not even now be a complete delegation of authority, for among 
other things the decisions rendered in the respective districts 

3 9 3 5 
12/23/69 
- 10 -
might not be based on uniform standards. Accordingly, it was agreed 
that the delegation should be accompanied by a statement of consider-
ations that the Reserve Banks would be expected to take into account 
in the processing of branch applications and in determining whether 
to approve on behalf of the Board or to submit the application to 
the Board for action. It was understood, also, that the Board's 
staff would continue to review the approvals given by the Reserve 
Banks under delegated authority and to have discussions with the 
Reserve Banks concerned if there appeared to be questions about the 
standards being applied by such Banks. 
Amendments to the Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, 
as proposed by the staff and modified during this morning's discussion, 
were then approved unanimously. A copy of the approved amendments, 
as subsequently published in the Federal Register, is attached as 
Item No. 10. 
Amendments to the Board's rules concerning Delegation by the 
Board of Governors of Certain Functions of a Nonstatutory and Nonregu-
lation Nature, as proposed by the staff and modified during this 
morning's discussion, were also approved unanimously. These amendments, 
along with other information, were subsequently set forth in a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Banks, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 11. 
It was understood that the amendments to the Rules Regarding 
Delegation of Authority would be transmitted to the Reserve Banks in 
advance of their publication in the Federal Register, with a statement 

12/23/69 
- 11 -
that the Board would be glad to consider any comments the Reserve 
. 
' v ' : . 
Banks might wish to offer. 
(Note: In accordance with this under-
standing, the amendments were made effective February 3, 1970.) 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Appointment of First Vice President. Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
approving the appointment of Ernest T. Baughman as First Vice 
President, effective April 1, 1970, for the unexpired portion of 
the five-year term ending February 28, 1971, together with the 
payment of salary to Mr. Baughman at the annual rate of $38,000 for 
the period April 1 through December 31, 1970. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 12. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 1 
12/23/69 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
205f1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P C J N O C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1969 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
One Bank of America Plaza, 
San Francisco> California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants permission to Bank of America 
National Trust: and Savings Association, pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in 
Balboa, Panama Canal Zone, and to operate and maintain such branch 
subject to tha provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on cr before January 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date„ 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened 
for business, furnishing information as to the exact location of 
the branch. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any 
future change in location of the branch in Balboa. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that, in the conduct of the branch's opera-
tions, maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained out-
side the United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any 
investment required will be made within the guidelines established 

3SC}8 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
~2~ 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they 
apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
bank and its subsidiaries, and that due consdderation is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

MfW^p-. 
U f e 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
12/23/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O O A R D 
December 23, 1969 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 18, 1969, addressed 
to Vice President Morrison, Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIFC") to 
acquire aid hold 100 per cent ownership of a Brazilian holding com-
pany ("BHC"), now in formation, at a cost of approximately $2,350,000, 
provided such acquisition is made within one year from the date of 
this letter. In this connection, the above acquisition at a cost in 
excess of 10 per cent of CIFC's capital and .surplus is also approved. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditionsl 
(1) That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any certificates of ownership of B1IC if BHC at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Gov-
ernors, purchase and hold stocky or if BHC estab-
lishes any branch or agency cr takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in Brazil or elsewhere, 
in any manner, which at the time would not be per« 
missible to CIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of BHC as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BHC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BHC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

3900 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation ar.d review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions, of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph cf this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by BHC in Brazil in the cur-
rency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnishec, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of BHC. 
As further requested in your letter, the Board also grants 
consent for CIFC to continue its ownership of BIIC after BHC purchases 
approximately 11,7 per cent of the outstanding shares of Banco Crefisu1 
de Investimento S.A., Porto Alegre, Braz.il, at a cost of approximately 
$2)350J00Gi provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint: effort now in effect 
as they apply tc the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company 
°f Chicago, and Continental Bank International, and that due consider-
ation is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E E Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
OTTHE 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 3 
12/23/69 
December 23, 1969 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for the Board's 
views on enrolled bill S. 2577, "To lower interest rates and 
fight inflation; to help housing, small busi.iess, and employ-
ment; t;o increase the availability of mortgage credit; and 
for other purposes." 
The Eoard recommends that the President approve 
the bill 
incerely 
/ 
/ 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 18 
12/23/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 23, 1969. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau o:: the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. RorameL: 
This is in response to your request for the Board's 
views on enrolled bill H. R. 14580, "Foreign Assistance Act 
of 1969." 
The Board has no comments to offer on this bill. 
Sincerely, 
/ 
/ / 
^ J/V* 
° 
J. L'. Robertson 

. 3/ 
' 0/A 
,<., 
'•"IP 
3903 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F ' T H E : 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q S 5 I 
Item No. 5 
12/23/69 
O F F I C E C F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 23, 1969. 
Mr. Dwignt Ink, 
Assistant Director for 
Executive M-.-nagement, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D, C. 
20503 
Dear Mr, Ink: 
Thiti is in response to your letter of November 21, 
1969, inviting the Board to recommend any proposed changes 
in the organisation of the Government that it believes are 
necessary and can properly be accomplished under the 
Executive Reorganization provisions of Title 5 of the United 
States Code. 
The Board has no such recommendations to make at 
this time. 
Sincerely, 

3904 
Item No. 6 
12/23/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., 
Oakland, California, 
for approval of acquisition of 51 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Tahoe National Bank, South Lake Tahoe, 
California. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 51 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Tahoe National Bank, South Lake Tahoe, California. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation thereon. In 
response, the Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 21, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17086), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons aet forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such time shall be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 23rd day of December, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

KJkJ> 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
TAHOE NATIONAL BANK, SOUTH LAKE TAHOE, CALIFORNIA 
STATEMENT 
Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
51 
per cent or more of the voting shares ot Tahoe National Bank, South 
Lake Tahoe, California ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
requested his views and recommendation thereon. In response, the 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

390'? 
-2-
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant 
^s the second largest of six registered bank holding companies operat-
. 
1/ 
in the State of California. The deposits 
controlled by the six 
holding companies combined represent approximately 10 per cent of total 
bank deposits in the State. The largest of the six holding companies 
controls 8 per cent of such deposits. Applicant's subsidiary banks 
have deposits of $255.7 million, which represent .58 per cent of 
California bank deposits. 
Applicant has four subsidiary banks, the largest of which, 
the Central Valley National Bank, Oakland, Alameda County, California 
(deposits $212.3 million), operates 34 banking offices in 11 California 
c°unties. Applicant's other subsidiaries are unit banks which operate 
y 
A 1 1 banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and refer to insured 
commercial banks. 

in three counties in which the Central Valley National Bank also has 
offices. The subsidiaries are: 
(1) First National Bank of Fresno, 
Fresno County (deposits $24.9 million); (2) Peninsula National Bank 
of Burlingame, San Mateo County (deposits $11.7 million); and (3) 
Livermore National Bank. Alameda County (deposits $6.8 million). 
Based upon the shares of deposits held by subsidiaries of Applicant 
in the counties in which it is represented,' it is reasonably concluded 
that Applicant does not hold a monopoly nor occupy a dominant position 
in any market. 
Bank is located in South Lake Tahoe, El Dorado County, 
California, where it operates two offices. Its service area, which 
approximates the relevant market, comprises the eastern portion of 
El Dorado County, together with the western portion of Douglas County, 
Nevada, and is located at the southern shore of Lake Tahoe. Bank is 
located approximately 115 miles distant from the closest subsidiary 
of Applicant. Neither Bank nor any of Applicant's subsidiaries derive 
any substantial business in any area served by the other. There is, 
therefore, no significant existing competition between subsidiaries 
of Applicant and Bank which will be eliminated by consummation of 
the proposed transaction. 
Although, under California banking law, any subsidiary of 
Applicant could establish a de novo office in the relevant market, 
this is not a realistic possibility. In addition to Bank, the market, 
with an estimated population of 20,000 persons, is already served by 

3909 
branches of five larger California and Nevada banking organizations. 
These factors, together with Applicant's distant location from the 
market, makes its entry there unlikely. There is, therefore, no sub-
stant 
ial potential competition between Bank and subsidiaries of 
Applicant which will be eliminated by the proposed acquisition. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would not result 
in an increase in concentration of banking resources in any area 
Served by Bank or by any subsidiary of Applicant. Applicant's share 
the total deposits held by all ccmmercial banks in the State of 
California would increase from .58 to .59 per cent. The Board finds, 
therefore, that acquisition of Bank by Applicant would not significantly 
increase the concentration of ccmmercial banking resources in the State. 
Sank possesses the third largest share of bank deposits held by the 
six banking institutions which operate in the relevant market area. 
Competition between Bank and the other banks located in the market 
is likely 
to become more aggressive if Bank is operated as a sub-
sidiary of Applicant. No adverse effect upon the competitive 
Position of other banks is reasonably foreseen in Applicant's proposal. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
Competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any 
section of the country. 

3910 
-5-
Firiancial and managerial resources and, f u ture prospe c t s . -
The financial conditions and managements of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
A 
are regarded as generally fair. Applicant's prospects and those of its 
subsidiaries are regarded as favorable. Bank's financial condition, its 
management, and its prospects, in its present circumstances, are regarded 
as substantially less than satisfactory. Since commencement of operations 
in 1963, its capital funds have been reduced substantially and further 
reductions are likely to occur in the future. Bank's problems are pri-
marily related to its need for improved and experienced management. In 
this connection, Applicant has recently made available to Bank an experi-
enced banker who is engaged in supervising the Bank's overall operations, 
including approval of all loans. The experienced management services thus 
being provided would, upon consummation of the proposal, continue on a 
permanent basis. With capable management, Bank's prospects should be 
satisfactory. Considerations relating to the banking factors, as applied 
to the transaction, therefore, are regarded as weighted heavily in favor 
of approval. 
Convenience 
needs._ojLthe ^ojgflunities i n v o l v e d . -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on 
customers of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
There is no evidence that the general banking needs of 
residents of the relevant market are going unserved. As indicated, 
Bank is not participating in a meaningful manner in serving its 

customers. Through its affiliation with Applicant, Bank should be able 
to offer such residents an additional alternate source of full-service 
^banking. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community, therefore, support approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
tfacts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
I 
December 23, 1969. 

E D A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
12/23/69 
A D D H F . S S DrriCIAL C O W R E S F 
D N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
December 23, 1969. 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Central Ba iking System, Inc., Oakland, 
California, a registered bank holding company, for permission to 
acquire 5\ per cent or more of the voting shares of Tahoe National 
Bank, South Lake Tahoe, California. 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's Order, together with the 
accompanying Statement and press release on this action. 
Inasmuch as the notice of the Board's action to be pub-
lished in the Federal Register will state thct copies of the Board's 
Statement are available at your Bank, cn additional 10 copies of 
the aforenentioned documents are enclosed. Also enclosed is a copy 
o£ the Board's letter by which Applicant has been advised of the 
Board's action. 
In its consideration of Applicant's proposal, the Board 
noted its earlier expressed concern, made knc-wn to the Applicant, 
regarding trie capital position of Applicant's principal subsidiary, 
Central Vflley National Bank, Oakland, California. Despite Applicant's 
action in increasing the Oakland Bank's capital by $500,000, a current 
analysis of the bank's capital position reflects a level lower than 
that which preceded the aforementioned capital contribution. In the 
light of this condition, the Board has reasonably anticipated the 
possibility that a similar capital deterioration could occur with 
respect to Applicant's other subsidiary banks. Accordingly, while 
the Board concluded that approval of Applicant's acquisition of the 

3913 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
Tahoe National Esnk was warranted in vie<7 of the particular circumstances 
attending the bank's condition, the Board has directed that its view 
of the capital position of Central Valley National Bank be brought to 
your attention, and that Applicant be apprised of the Board's intention 
to attribute significant weight to the capital condition of the Central 
Valley National Bank in respect to any additional bank acquisitions 
proposed by Applicant. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Fcrrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 

OCVtf 1 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 8 
12/23/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P I J N D E N C E 
T C 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1969. 
D(?ar Sir: 
forward! ^ 
r C q U n r e f 
° f ^
^ 
° f t h e 
forms is being 
bark 
1 , / O U r -Tlnk u n d e r s e p a r a t e cover for use of member State 
da? 
ar 
X r a f f i l i a t e s for submitting reports as of the next call 
A copy of each form is attached for your information. 
Fona FR 105 (Call 194 revised June 1969), Report of 
Condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105 Schedule K, Supplemental Information on 
'fraring Account Securities and Federal Funds Sold 
and Securities Purchased Under Agreements to Resell. 
Form FR 105e (revised April 1969), Publisher's copy of 
Report of Condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (revised April 1969), Publisher's copy of 
Report of Condition of Stat* member banks. 
Form FR 220 (revised September IS 66), Report of an Affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (revised September 1966), Publisher's copy of 
Report of an Affiliate, 
Supplemental Information on Credit Card Plans and on Check 
Credit and Revolving Credit Plans. 
Supplemental Information on Bank Affiliates and Subsidiaries. 
1969 
T h G R e p o r t : o f Condition is the same as that used for the June 
ProcoT 
d ° t e a n d r e f l e c t s ^ e changes in reporting and publication 
of lo. 
t h a t w c r e l n G f f c c t f o r t h a t c a l l« 
T h e detailed schedules 
*nd n 
f n d d c p o s i t 3 o n t h e b a c k of the form usually required for June 
thor 
C a U 
d a t 6 S a r G i n c l a d G d f o r 
call date. * The Comptroller 
requl
 
C u r r e n c y a n d t h e ^cderal Deposit Insurance Corporation will 
are i Y r e p o r t a f r o m national and insured nenrnember State banks that 
^critical in all substantive requirements. 
Pe<iernl c S * h c d u l e K a S a l n will be used for reporting the breakdown of 
• 
tunds sold and securities purchased under resale agreements 

according to the other party to the transactions. 
Schedule K also 
lequires a breakdown of trading account securities by type of security 
Itt the same detail as is required in the investment security items on 
the face of the Report. 
on p , „ Sl]°rt s u ^ P l e m e n t : ^ schedules to collect very brief information 
on Lank Credit Card and Check Credit Plans and on Bank Affiliates and 
subsidiaries are being required by each of the Federal Bank supervisory 
agencies for this call. The content of each is limited to information 
that should be readily available from the accounts of the relatively few 
respondent banks that have information to report. Respondent member State 
' 7 s 
a r G required to complete and forward only one copy to the Reserve 
Bank. 
tou will be advised later of any procedures for duplicating this 
lormat ion end forwarding it to the Board. 
, 
F o r t h e Credit Card supplement, only banks involved in such 
Wans need submit reports and estimates are permitted. This survey is 
ntended to provide information for bank supervisory operations and soon 
nrormation that may be pertinent to the outcome of legislation pending 
m tne Congress. 
u 
£ 
TllG supplement on bank affiliates and subsidiaries is required 
a n T 
S t a t e n , e m b e r banlcs t 0 obtain up-to-date information on the extent 
nature of operations of bank subsidiaries and on the extent to wh<c' 
se operations are reflected in call reports on a consolidated basis. 
a 
* 
- 
w l 
«•« 
~ «... v. 
J.«. I J. ^ i l l i c i t . 
u u 
L i l U 
e x u 
no nature of operations of bank subsidiaries and on the extent to wh<ch 
operations are reflected in call reports on a consolidated basis, 
w" ^uestiens relating to affiliates are limited to parent affiliates of 
ospendent banks that are riot registered under the Bank Holding Company 
r and no specially prepared statistical information is required. No" 
ntormation on sister affiliates of the same parent affiliate or on owner-
Q tl> < 
t:he P a r e n t affiliate is required. This information will provide 
and 
° C n S U S ° f C n ° b a n k h o l d i n 8 companies that is needed for present 
sho 1,'?SSibl° f u t u r c statutory responsibilities. All member State banks 
- ould return one copy of the completed form to the Reserve Bank regardless 
ha. 
t h G y h a V G s i S n i f i c a n t information to report. The Comptroller 
s requested nacicnal banks to submit a copy of this form to the Reserve 
of Aff * • T h e r e i s a o c h a nSe in the reporting requirements for Reports 
bet 
o r i n t h e requirements for publication of such reports. 
f flUed instructions as to information required and as to the circumstances 
waiver of Reports of Affiliates are included in the instruction booklet 
are printed on the back of Form 22.0. 
Sam 
Reports of loans to executive officers will be required on the 
e basis as for previous calls. No standard form has been devised for 
infS° r e p o r t s ' 
Thf: requirement for submission to the Board of summary 
:°rmation from these reports is unchanged. 
Witi 
T h o f o l ] o w l n S reporting changes and/or guidelines are effective 
in A r e p o r t s o f condition for this call date. They will be incorporated 
cne next revision of the call report instruction booklet. 

-3-
MORTGACE REPURCHASE/RESALE TRANSACTIONS. Mortgage loans sold 
subject to repurchase agreements will henceforth be reported 
in the same manner as any other loans sold under similar 
arrangements. The celling bank should, therefore, include its 
mortgage loans sold under RP in the loan classification schedule 
(Schedule A) where the amount will also be carried over to 
Item 8, Loans, on the face of the Condition Report. The proceeds 
of the mortgage loan RP's will be reported by the selling bank 
as a separate borrowing transaction and will be reflected in 
Item 24, Li abilities for borrowed money. 
The buying bank shall treat, mortgage loans purchased under 
resale agreements in the same manner as all other loans purchased 
under similar arrangements. The resale transactions should be 
reported as a loan asset and classified according to the other 
party to the transaction, for example, as a loan to a bank if 
the. repurchase transaction is with another bank. 
PURCHASES AND SALES OF PARTICIPATIONS IN LOAN POOLS. 
Existing 
language in the call report instructions concerning the treat-
ment of ;ales and purchases of loan pool participations should, 
be clarified since the present wording has apparently resultec 
in some confusion over the proper reporting of these transactions. 
In particular are those participations where the terms — that is. 
interest rate and maturity—of the certificate.^), differ frorr 
these of the loans comprising the pool. Essentially, the treat-
ment of nales of purchases of loan pool participations parallels 
the treatment of loans subject to ressle and/or repurchase 
agreements. 
Pooled loans in which participations are sold should be 
kept in the selling bank's loan portfolio. The individual 
loans in the pool should be reported in Schedule A according 
to the appropriate classification of each such loan. The 
proceeds from the participation sales will be considered a 
borrowing and will be reflected in Item 24, Liabilities for 
borrowed money. 
Banks that buy participations in pooled loans shall 
report the purchases as loans and should classify them accord-
ing to the other party to the transaction. Thus, purchases of 
loan pool certificates from other banks or from other financial 
organizations should be reported under Schedule A as Loans to 
financial institutions. 
The treatment referred to above does not apply to 
purchases and sales of pooled loans where a strict pro rata 
dividing up of the loans within the pool occurs and where j 
the maturity, rate of return and rick to the holder of the 

' M y 3 
-4-
loan paper is dependent upon the individual loans in the 
group; or to loans made in cooperation with other banks 
where more than one bank participates in a single loan. 
NET BALANCES WITH FOREIGN BRANCHES. Current instructions 
fcr the preparation of the Consolidated Domestic Report 
of Condition state that banks with foreign branches shall 
report separately the aggregate net of all ' due from" 
balances with individual foreign branches in 1 other 
assets,' and the sunt of net "due to' balances in 'other 
liabilities 
Effective with the fourth call ii 1969 this will no 
longer be required. Instead, a singls figure will be 
reported in either 'other assets'- if the outstanding balance 
with all foreign branches results in a net 'due from1 amount, 
or in "other liabilities' if the balance results in a net 
"due to" amount. 
The changes relating to mortgage loan R/P's and to the clarifica-
tion of the reporting requirements for lorn participations will also apply 
to other reports (except reports of deposits for reserve purposes) submitted 
y member ar.d nontnember banks beginning w: th December 31 reports. 
It seems 
m o s L appropriate that announcement of the broader application of this 
J^nange and the clarification be made directly to member and nenmember 
banks reporting ir the series affected as soon £s procedures for 
etermining the statistical impact of any significant discontinuities 
ave been worked out. Appropriate persons at your bank administering the 
series will, be advised of these procedures. 
The Board has approved continuing to n,ake available to interested 
Persons outside the Federal Bank superviscry agencies the face-of-the call 
formation tor consolidated domestic operations reported by member State 
3^nks. For most banks this information is the published portion of the 
all report but since the April 1969 Call it also includes the same items 
loni reports of domestic operations of those barks with foreign offices 
at publish only a consolidated foreign and domestic call report, thus 
Permitting disclosure of foreign office operatiens not hitherto published. 
" L S e xP e cted that continuing to make such reports in the Agencies' 
^chine language and hard copy files available to the public will be 
^ollowed by the Office of the Comptroller and the FDIC but official 
ntirmaticn has not yet been received. Therefore, pending such con-
n o
r m ? t i 0 n a n d r c c c i P t o f a ~'orG detailed statement on conditions of release, 
o disclosure of face of the call date pertaining to domestic operations 
y should be made for banks with foreign offices for any of the reports 
and 
expected formal advice of the Interagency agreement 
S o 
the particular standards for making such disclosure within the 
y°tem will be sent to the Reserve Banks in the near future. 

Reports of all insured banks again will be processed by the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in Washington. 
Instructions for 
editing, keypunching, and preliminary processing of member State and 
national bank reports at the Reserve Banks are essentially the same 
as for the June Ci'll. Soma minor modifications, in the instructions for 
keypunching these reports will be forwarded soon. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert ?. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF CO^V 
• i 
T H E 
Item No. 9 
12/23/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1969. 
The Honorable Preston Martin, 
Chairman, 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 
101 Indiana Avenue, N.W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20552 
Dear Chairman Martin: 
Following up on the discussion of authorized payment 
plans for {.savings and loan associations at the.1 recent joint meeting 
of the Federal Reserve Board, Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and 
the Board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we are 
enclosing a memorandum prepared by the Board Ptaff which may be of 
assistance in your further study of this matter. We understand 
that the staffs of the three Agencies also held a meeting to dis-
cuss various aspects of the problem. 
We assume that you will be giving the Board an opportunity 
to review its position with respect to such payment plans (as they 
apply to member banks) before any final action is taken by the Home 
Loan Bank Board. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Item No. 10 
12/23/69 
S-2118a 
TITLE 12- -BAi'JXS AND BANKING 
39'v!0 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCI&PraR A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TIE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART P.65--RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
la* Pursuant to and in accordance with the. provisions of 
section 11 (It) of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. ?.4o(k)), the 
Board has- amended Part 265 with a view toward providing more expeditious 
means for the performance of certain oi: the Board's bank supervisory 
function?, and improving its overall eflicienfcy in fulfilling its 
statutory responsibilities. 
b„ Section 2.65* la (a) is amended to authorise a member of 
the Boarc to approve additional foreign branches of a member bank in 
case* where s'vli rn^'mbei* bnnh has previously obtained the approval 
of the Board t_> establish branches in two or more foreign countries., 
even though suc h branches may not actually te opened for business * 
Section 265.1a ,'b) is amended to authorize a Board member to approve 
non-controlling acquisitions of foreign stock by subsidiaries of 
member banks or. "Edge" corporations. 
c. Section 265.2 is amended in various respects. 
(1) The General Counsel of the Board is authorized to 
issue orders for hearings required by section 4(c)(0) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. 
(2) The Director of the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation is authorized (i) to request call reports of condition from 
member banks on the operations of their foreign bonk subsidiaries 

S-2118a 
-2- 
3921 
acquired in accordance with Regulation M and (ii) to permit member 
banks to accept: drafts or bills of exchange ;;or the purpose of 
furnishing dollar exchange. 
(There is also transferred from the 
Secretary of the Board to the. Director of Supervision and Regulation 
authority to certify to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
that, with respect to admission of a State chartered bank to Federal 
Reserve Membership, the factors specified in section 6 of the Federal 
Reserve Act weL-Q considered,) 
(3) The Director of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations is authorized to permit a me.mber bank in a reserve city, 
with demand deposits of not more than y25 million, to maintain reduced 
reserves at the ratios prescribed for banks not in reserve cities, 
irrespective oi: whether the Board has already granted permission to 
a bank ir< such a city to maintain reduced reserves. 
(4) F.ach Federal Reserve Bank is authorized to permit 
State member banks to establish domestic branches, declare dividends 
in excess of net profits, and invest in bank premises in excess of 
capital stock, upon consideration of the factors specified in § 265.2(f) 
(1), (?.), and (7), 
(Previously, the specified factors were in terms of 
conditions that had to be met in order for approval action to be 
taken by a Reserve Bank. 
The Director of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation retains his authority under j 265.2(c)(10) to exercise 
approvals under 
(1), (2), and (7), where the apprcpriate Reserve 
Bank considers that it should not take action to approve the member 

S~211Ca 
" 3 « 
bank's request.) Reserve Banks are also authorized to approve 
amendments tc Articles of Association of "vige" corporations 
relating to (1) increases in capital where no additional share-
holders are tc be involved: (ii) changes of address within the 
city where the corporation is presently located; and (iii) charges 
in the number of directors of such corporations. 
(5) The Director of trie Division of International Finance 
is authorizec to approve the establishment of foreign accounts with 
the Federal Reserve Bank oz Hew York, 
2, The text of the amendments, which become effective 
February 3, 1/70, is as follows: 
a, Section 265,1a(a) and (b) is amended to read: 
!j 
255. lu Specific Functions Delegated to loard Members. 
•>V vV 'it 
(a) fo approve the establishment, directly or indirectly, 
of a foreign branch or agency by a me.nber bank or corporation organized 
under section 25(a) (an "Edge" corporation) or operating under an 
agreement with the Board pursuant to section 25 (an "Agreement" 
corporation) which has already established, or has been authorized 
to establish, branches in two or more foreign countries. 
(b) To grant .specific consent to stock acquisitions, 
either directl/ or indirectly, by a member bank or on Edge or 
Agreement corporation (and to approve such acquisitions which may 
exceed the limitations in section 25(a) based on such a corporation's 

S-2110a . 
I J ' J ^ A J 
capital and surplus) not resulting in the acquisition, either directly 
or indirectly, by such bank or corporation of effective control of 
any foreign company (other than a company performing nominee, fiduciary, 
or other banking services incidental to the activities of a foreign 
branch or affiliate of such bank or corporation), 
vV •;»• 
(b) Section 265.2 is amended by (i) adding paragraphs (b)(4), 
(c) (14), (15), end (16), (f)(lG)> and (j,)i and (ii) revising paragraphs 
(a), (c) (3.0), (d) (3), and (f)(1), (2), and (7), as set forth below: 
S 265.2 Specific functions delegated to Board _emg_loyees and_ Feder_al 
Reserve Bank£, 
(a) The;. Secretary of the Board (or, in his absence, the 
Acting Secretary) is authorised, un--c.r the provisions of part 261 
this chapter, to make available, upon request, information in the 
records cf the Board. 
(b) ThGeneral Counsel of the Board (or, in his absence, 
the Acting General Counsel) is authorized: 
i: Vc v\* 
(4) Under the provisions of section 4(c)(0) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1043(c)(0)) and j 222.4(a) of this 
chapter (Regulation Y), to issue an order for a hearing to be 
conducted for the purpose of determining whether a company engaged 
in activities of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance nature falls 
within the exemption described therein permitting retention or 
acquisition of control thereof by a bank holding company. 

S~211oa 
( c) 
Director of die Division of Supervision and 
Regulation (or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(10) To exercise the functions described in subparagraph (4 
of paragraph (f) of this section in eases in which the conditions 
specified t here!?. as prerequisites to exercise of such functions by 
the Federal Reserve Banks are not present or in which, even though 
such conditions are present, the appropriate F-'deral Reserve Bank 
considers that nevertheless it should not take action on the member 
bank's request, and to exercise the functions described in subpara-
graphs (1)5 (2), and (7) of paragraph (f) of this section in cases 
in which M a appropriate Federal Reserve Bank considers that it 
should not take action to approve the me ruber hank's request, 
V; iV * 
(14) Under the provisions of the seventh paragraph of 
section 23 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 602), to require 
submission of a report of condition respecting any foreign bank 
^n which a membei bank holds stock acquired under the provisions 
C 213«/t of this chapter (Regulation M) , 
(15) Under the twelfth paragraph of section 13 of the 
federal Reserve Act (39 Stat. 754) and § 203.2 of this chapter 
(Regulation C), to permit any member bank to accept drafts or 
kills of exchange drawn upon it for the purpose of furnishing 
d ° U a r exchange. 

< 
S-2110a 
— u— 
(16) Under the provisions of section 4(b) of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Act (12 U*S.C* 1814(b)), tc certify to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that, with respect to the 
admission of a State-chartered bank to Federal Reserve membership, 
the factors specified in section 6 of that Act (12 U.S.C. 1816) 
v;ere cons i dered. 
(d) The Director of the Division oi Federal Reserve Bank 
Operation-: (or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized: 
(3) Under the provisions of section 19(b) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (1?. U.S.C. 461) and 5 204.2(a)(2) of this chapter 
(Regulation D), to permit a member bank in a reserve city to maintain 
reserves at the ratios prescribed for banks not in reserve cities, 
Provided such bank holds demand deposits of not more than $25 million, 
or> demand deposits less than the amounc of demand deposits of the 
largest brnk in the city that is permitted tc maintain reserves at 
Gucn lower ratio, whichever is larger, giving consideration to 
factors such as the amount of the bank's resources, total deposits, 
demand deposits, demand deposits owing to banks, types of depositors 
and borrowers, turnover of demand deposits, geographical location 
Within the city, and competitive position with relation to other 
banks in the city. 

S-211Cci 
-7-
(f) Ka^ii Federal Reserve frank is authorized, as to member 
banks or other indicated organizations headquartered in its district: 
CI) Under the provisions of the thud paragraph of section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C« 36), and 5 208.0 of this chapter 
(Regulation II), to approve the establishment by a State member bank 
of a domestic branch if the proposed brunch has been approved by the 
appropriate Stati authority and if the Reserve Bank is satisfied 
that approval is warranted after giving consideration to: 
f.i) the bank's capitalization in relation to the character 
and condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities, including the volume of its risk assets 
and of its Marginal and inferior quality assets, all considered in 
^elation to the .strength of its management; 
(ii) the ability of bank's management to cope successfully 
With existing or foreseeable problems, and to staff the proposed 
branch without any significant deterioration in the overall manage-
ment situation; 
(iii) the convenience and needs of the community; 
(iv) the competitive situation (either actual or potential); 
(v) the prospects for profitable operations of the proposed 
branch within a reasonable time, and the ability of the bank to sus-
tain the operational losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
Profitable; and 
3926 

-v-
(v;.) che reasonableness of bank';; investment in bank 
premises aft r die expenditure for the prooosed branch. 
(2: Under the provisions of the sixth paragraph of 
section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U,StC, 324) and the 
provisions or section 5199 of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C, 60). 
to perr tit a State member bank to declare dividends in excess of 
net profits ;:or the calendar year combined with the retained net 
profit:: of the preceding two years, less any required transfers 
to surplus o- a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock, if 
the Reserve Wank is satisfied that approval is warranted after 
giving consideration to: 
(i.» the bank's capitalization in relation to the character 
and condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and 
other corporate responsibilities, including the volume of its risk 
assets and of its marginal and inferior quality assets, all consider 
in relation to the strength of its m-dnagemant; and 
(iv) the bank's capitalization after payment of the propos 
dividend * 
(7) Under the provisions of section 24A of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371d); to permit a State member bank to 
invest in ban": premises in an amount in excess of its capital stock, 
if the Reserve Bank is satisfied that approval is warranted after 
giving consideration to: 

-9-
(i) the bank's capitalization in relation t;o the character 
and condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other-
corporate responsibilities, including the volume of its risk assets 
and of its marginal and inferior quality assets, all considered in 
relation to the strength of its management; and provided that 
(ii) upon completion of the proposed investment, the bank's 
aggregate investment (direct and indirect) „.n bank premises plus thst 
indebtedness cf any wholly-owned bank premises subsidiary will not 
exceed 40 per cent of its total capital funds (including capital 
notes and debentures) plus reserves other than valuation reserves* 
(18) Under the provisions of. the second paragraph of 
section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve „Act (11. U.S.C. 612) and 
5 211,3 of this chapter (Regulation K) > t:o approve amendments to 
the Articles of Association of any "Edge Act " corporation to reflect 
the following: 
(i) any increase in the capi.tal stock of such corpora-
tion where all additional shares are t.o be acquired by existing shave-
holders; (ii) any change in the location of the home office of such 
corporation within the city where such corporation is presently 
located; and (iii) any change in the number of members of the Board 
of Directors of such corporation. 
i< 
(g) The Director of the Division of International Finance 
(or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized, under the 

•J*.?** J 
S-211Ca 
-10-
provisions. of the sixth paragraph of section 14 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 (J,3 ,C. 350) to approve the establishment of foreign 
accounts with the Federal Reserve Bank of Hew York. 
*.'c 
i: 
-if 
V: 
vV 
3. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United 
States Code, relating to notice and public, participation and to 
deferred effective dates, were not followed in connection with 
the adoption of these rules, because such rules are procedural in 
nature and accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject 
, < . 
to the requirements of such section. 
By order of the Board of GovernorsFebruary 3, 1970. 
[SEAL] 
(Signed) Kenneth A, Kenyan 
Kenneth A. Kenyan, 
Deputy Secretary. 

• F ^ R R T S ^ -
3 D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• 
F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 11 
s - 2 m 2 3 / 6 9 
3930 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R r. S • 
N D C N c c 
T D 
T H E 
E3GARD 
January 26, 197C. 
Dear Sir: 
The Boari has delegated to its staff and to the Federal 
S^J^/",111!11? 5° e : r e r c i s e additional functions, and has 
Wle certain technical changes in its rules in this area! Enclosed 
« a copy of the amendments to the Board's formal "Rules Re-ardinr 
^legation of Authority", which will be forwarded to the Federal ° 
-gister for publication on February 3, 1570. In the event that you 
uve any comments on the amendments which apply to the Federal 
^sorve Banks, th- Board will, of course, consider them, 
b 
'rh,i B o a r d a l s o has amended its rules concerning "Delegation 
1 W 
° f G o v' e r n o r s o f Certain Functions cf a Nonstatutory and 
ontegulatioa Nature" (enclosure with the Board's letter of June 8 
S-2 02.0, F aR «L,S. fi 9025.01), as follows: 
" 
" 
l* 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
W1-agraph (c,> is amended by adding: 
" 
' 
(5) To determine, in response to a recuest from 
any State authority, that there is no objection to the 
establishment by a foreign bank of a branch, agency, 
or subsidiary in such State. 
0no
 
2 * Pj-H^tox of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
^ ^ t l o n s . 
Paragraph (d) is amended by adding: 
(3) 0:o approve any proposal by a Federal Reserve 
Bank for an expenditure of up to $100,000 for any repair 
or alteration project, ar.cl to approve any proposal by a 
federal Reserve Bank for an expenditure of not less than 
$100,000 nor more than $500,000 for any repair or altera-
tion project after consultation with the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation and Building Plans. 
f

O J u l 
-2-
federal ftg.oarvg. Panics. To clarify the authority of 
the Reserve Banks with respect to extension of time within which 
action approved by the Board under section 3 of the Bank Holding 
Act must be taken, paragraph (e)(1) if. amended to read: 
(1) >o extend the time within which a bank holding 
company may acquire shares, a new bank to be acquired by 
a bank holding company may be opened for business, or a 
merger may be consummated in connection with an applica-
tion approved by the Board, if no material change that 
is relevant to the proposal has occur rat1 since its 
approval 
"'Rector of the Divisior o£ P.vrsonnel Administration, 
A new paragraph (f) is added as follows: 
(£) The Director of the Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration (or, in his absence, the Acting Director) is authorized 
to approve changes in health insurance coverage for employees 
of any Federal Reserve Bank that are within the guidelines 
approved ay the Board (F.R.L.S, cj 200.50). 
Very truly yours, 
^ 
U , 
rirtufc* 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
Enclosure., 
TO THE PRESIDEIITS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BAIIKS 

3932 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
C F T H E 
Item No. 12 
12/23/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 C 5 5 I 
OFFICE: O F THE: V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 23, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Franklin J. Lunding, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Frank: 
The Board of Governos has approved the appointment 
of Mr. Ernest T. Baughman as First Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, effective April 1, 1970, for 
the unexpired portion of the five year term ending February 28, 
The Board of Governors has also approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. Baughman as First Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago at an annual salary of $38,000 for the 
period April 1 through December "31, 1970. This is the rate 
fixed by youi Board of Directors as reported in your letter 
of November 13, 1969. 
1971. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
