MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 18, 1968 

lI^G 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, April 18, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:30 
a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 2/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
.1 r;; 
t i.M 
Virginia Commonwealth. 
Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on February 28, 1968, of the application 
°f Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of The First Colonial Bank, Virginia Beach, Virginia, 
a
 proposed new bank, was authorized. Copies of the documents, as 
issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
__ 
k' Attended meeting as indicated in minutes. 
Z.' Attended morning session only. 

1435 
4/18/68 
-2-
Discount rate and interest on deposits. The Board members had 
been alerted to the probability that at their meetings today the 
directors of at least two Federal Reserve Banks (New York and Philadelphia) 
would establish, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors, a 
discount rate of 5-1/2 per cent (rather than the existing 5 per cent) 
on discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Chairman Martin called for a general discussion of the matter 
and turned first to Mr. Brill for a rundown on economic developments. 
Mr. Brill cited statistical and other information indicating 
that the economy was even stronger than had been anticipated by the 
staff in its projections about a month and a half ago, with a persistence 
of inflationary pressures. 
In view of the excesses that appeared to 
be developing, he had reached the conclusion that the degree of monetary 
restraint previously postured as appropriate for the containment of 
inflationary pressures was no longer sufficient and that a greater degree of 
restraint therefore was in order. 
On the financial side Mr. Brill noted the increasing pressure on 
bank resources resulting from credit demands from the private economy, 
which the banks had been attempting to meet by allowing Governments to 
run off from their portfolios. Also, in view of the movement of market 
interest rates, banks were experiencing increasing difficulty in replacing 

1428 
4/18/68 
-3-
their maturing certificates of deposit, particularly large-denomination 
certificates issued by the larger banks in the money centers. 
Mr. Axilrod concurred generally in Mr. Brill's appraisal. 
There followed a discussion centering on the apparent strength 
of credit demands, after which members of the Board presented their 
tentative views. It developed that all of the members with the 
exception of Governor Maisel accepted the staff analysis and were pre-
pared to approve a discount rate of 5-1/2 per cent if such action 
should be taken by the directors of Federal Reserve Banks and submitted 
to the Board for consideration. While the members stressed domestic 
economic developments as justification for an increase in the rate at 
this time, references also were made to indications of erosion of 
confidence in the dollar in international quarters. 
During the go-around the Chairman expressed himself as fairly 
pessimistic with regard to the prospect for enactment of a fiscal 
restraint package, at least at an early date, but indicated that in his 
view the best course for the Federal Reserve in the circumstances prob-
ably was to move ahead with further monetary restraint since that might 
suggest the seriousness with which it regarded the situation and cause 
the 
Congress to move more speedily. Other Board members concurred in 
the Chairman's position in this respect. 
<. a • 
i 
Governor Maisel referred to longer-run economic and financial pro-
jections that had been developed by the staff earlier and expressed the 

14^9 
4/18/68 
-4-
view that thus far there had not been a sufficient deviation from those 
projections to warrant a further tightening of monetary policy. It 
was his preference to follow the situation for a while longer and 
appraise the effectiveness of the monetary restraintthat had already 
been put in train. While this was the tone of his comments, he did not 
indicate specifically whether he would vote for or against the approval 
of an increase in the discount rate if that should be proposed by 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
The remarks by Board members on the discount rate issue led to 
comments on the viability of the interest rate ceiling applicable to 
negotiable certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 and 
over. In the initial stages of the discussion, some Board members 
were inclined to feel that serious attrition in such deposits had not 
yet been fully established and that a delay in resolving the matter might 
be advisable, although one member (Governor Brimmer) advanced the idea 
that the press release relative to a discount rate increase, if acted 
upon, might contain some recognition of the Board's awareness of the 
CD problem. As the discussion proceeded, however, all Board members 
except Governor Maisel moved toward acceptance of the view that on 
balance it would be desirable to announce some revision of the ceiling 
rates applicable to large CD's simultaneously with announcement of a 
discount rate increase. One reason given was that in the absence of 
s
uch action banks would lose whatever ability they presently had to 

1435 
4/18/68 
-5-
replace outstanding CD's, particularly in the short maturities, as the 
market adjusted to a rise in the discount rate and therefore were likely 
to turn en masse to Euro-dollar borrowings, with consequent disruption 
of the market. Also, the uncertainty engendered would decrease the 
willingness of the banks to make plans for participation in impending 
Treasury financing. 
Several suggestions were advanced. The first, by Governor 
Mitchell, was to increase to 7 per cent (from the existing 5-1/2 per 
cent) the maximum rate payable on large-denomination CD's with maturities 
of six months or more. His thought was to provide relief in the area 
that appeared to him most critical, but at the same time to avoid a 
"business as usual" approach and require the banks to reach a judgment, 
in light of their assessment of future economic developments, on the 
extent to which they cared to commit themselves to longer-term CD's at 
highter rates. 
Another suggestion, by Governor Robertson, contemplated raising 
the ceiling sufficiently to permit banks to hold their present volume 
°f large CD's outstanding but not to exceed that level, leaving open 
the possibility that at a later date the Board, if it saw fit, could 
raise the limit to, say, 105 or 110 per cent of the present volume. 
It 
appeared to him that the establishment of a ceiling of 6 per cent on 
large CD's with maturities of six months or more might suffice to allow 

1435 
4/18/68 
- 6 -
the banks to replace maturing CD's, although he indicated that he 
might be willing to go as high as 6-1/2 per cent. 
Other suggestions contemplated the establishment of staggered 
ceiling rates for large CD's according to maturities. One suggestion, 
by Governor Brimmer, reflected a proposal that he had first presented to 
the Board members in a memorandum of March 15, 1968. As originally 
outlined, the schedule of maximum rates would have ranged from 5-1/2 
per cent for maturities from 30 to 59 days to 5-3/4 per cent for 
maturities from 60 to 89 days and 6 per cent for maturities of 90 days 
and over. While Governor Brimmer continued to favor retaining the 5-1/2 
per cent limit at the shortest end, he indicated that he would be 
amenable to some adjustments for longer maturities in view of changes 
that had occurred since his memorandum was prepared. 
A staff proposal, spelled out by Mr. Brill, was designed to 
offer banks some latitude, but not much leeway, in competing for CD 
funds based on staff estimates of market interest rate adjustments, 
including a likely increase in the commercial bank prime rate, in the 
wake of announcement of a discount rate increase. This proposal contem-
plated a maximum rate of 5-3/4 per cent for maturities of less than 90 
days, 6 per cent from 90 to 179 days, and 6-1/2 per cent for six months 
or more. 
There were some differences of opinion within the staff, however. 
Mr. Holland suggested that a maximum rate of 5-1/2 per cent be retained 

lAXZ 
4/18/68 
-7-
at the shortest end of the maturity range, although he envisaged that 
an adjustment might become necessary within a relatively short time. 
Mr. Solomon expressed some apprehension that failure to increase the 
maximum rate at the short end might result in a rush to the Euro-dollar 
market. 
Certain compromise possibilities then were mentioned, the most 
notable being a suggestion by Governor Brimmer to have a break in the 
maximum rate schedule at 60 days. 
As the discussion proceeded, sentiment appeared to jell around 
such a rate schedule. The suggestion originally made by Governor 
Mitchell met with objections because of a disposition not to announce 
a maximum rate as high as 7 per cent and because of a feeling that banks 
should be given some latitude to continue to sell large CD's with 
maturities of less than six months. While some sympathy was expressed 
in principle with Governor Robertson's "stop-loss" idea, several members 
backed away from it on the ground that it went too far in the direction 
of intervention. The staff proposal orginally outlined by Mr. Brill 
appeared to be regarded by some members, particularly Governor Mitchell, 
as too accommodative and smacking of "business as usual." 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that before the 
Board met again this afternoon the staff would give further consideration 
to the matter against the background of the attitudes that had been 
expressed, and that Governor Robertson would consult with the Chairmen 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan 

1435 
4/18/68 
-8-
Bank Board to ascertain that they would have no objection if the Board 
decided to take action along the lines indicated. 
Chairma n Martin withdrew from the meeting at this point and 
the following additional members of the staff entered: 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Doyle and Porter of the Legal Division 
First National City Bank. In connection with an application 
by First National City Bank, New York, New York, for permission to 
establish a branch in Bridgetown, Barbados, it was noted that as of the 
end of February the bank and its subsidiaries, which reported on a 
combined basis, were over the guideline ceiling under the foreign credit 
restraint program by $37 million. 
In the circumstances, action on the 
application was deferred pending discussion of the matter with applicant 
by the Board's staff. 
Currency and coin services. In a memorandum dated April 16, 
• 
'hi 
ir 
1968, the Division of Bank Operations noted that at its meeting on 
March 4, 1968, the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
had accepted a report submitted by the Subcommittee on Currency and 
Coin with regard to currency and coin services of the Reserve Banks. 
The report reflected a study made in response to the Board's request, 
by letter of December 30, 1965, for a comprehensive review of such services. 

1435 
4/18/68 
-9-
The Division recommended that the Board concur in the recom-
mendations contained in the Subcommittee report, with the understanding 
that the Division would follow through on those items that called for 
further study and review by Reserve Banks. 
In discussion the Board expressed the view that it would be 
desirable to move toward uniformity of currency and coin services. The 
staff was requested to prepare material showing office by office the 
services rendered, so that the Board might have a better understanding 
of differences that existed, and it was agreed that Governor Mitchell 
would work closely with the staff on this matter. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:05 p.m. with Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, 
and Brimmer present. Staff members in attendance included Messrs. 
Holland, Kenyon, Brill, Solomon, Molony, Fauver, Hexter, O'Connell, Axilrod, 
and Bernard; also Messrs. Broida, Assistant Secretary; Cardon, Assistant 
to the Board; and Sanders of the Legal Division. 
Discount rate and interest on deposits. Advice had now been 
received that at their meetings today the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Minneapolis had established, subject 
to the approval of the Board of Governors, a rate of 5-1/2 per cent 
on discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
As this afternoon's session began, advice was received that the 
directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had established the 
same rate. 

1435 
4/18/68 
-10-
After a brief discussion the Board approved unanimously, effective 
April 19, 1968, the following rates established by the directors of 
the New York, Philadelphia, and Minneapolis Banks: 5-1/2 per cent on 
discounts and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the 
Federal Reserve Act; 6 per cent on advances to member banks under section 
10(b) of the Act; and 7 per cent at New York and 6-1/2 per cent at 
Philadelphia and Minneapolis on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of 
section 13 of the Act. 
In addition, the Board authorized the Secretary to advise other 
Federal Reserve Banks whose directors subsequently established similar 
rates of the Board's approval of such rates. 
(Note: Pursuant to this authorization, the Secretary advised 
the following Federal Reserve Banks of the Board's approval of rates 
of 5-1/2 per cent on discounts and advances to member banks under 
sections 13 and 13a and 6 per cent on advances under section 10(b) 
effective the dates indicated: 
San Francisco 
April 19, 1968 
Atlanta 
April 22, 1968 
Boston and St. Louis 
April 23, 1968 
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, 
Kansas City, and Dallas 
April 26, 1968 
Effective the same dates, the Secretary advised Federal Reserve 
Banks of the Board's approval of the following rates on advances to 
individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 

1435 
4/18/68 
-11-
under the last paragraph of section 13: 6-1/2 per cent for the Boston, 
Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San 
Francisco Banks; 7 per cent for the Cleveland Bank.) 
Turning to the maximum rates of interest permitted to be paid 
by member banks on certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 
and over, the Secretary noted that the members of the Board had now 
received f rom the staff copies of a document showing how the Supplement 
to Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, would be amended if 
the Board adopted a maximum rate schedule according to maturities 
along the lines discussed by the Board at the conclusion of this morning
1 
session. The document, in form suitable for publication in the Federal 
Register, included an explanation that the principal purpose of the 
action was to enable banks to offer rates of interest on such deposits 
that were more competitive with prevailing rates in the money market 
for comparable investments. 
Governor Robertson reported that he had consulted the Chairmen 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board and that they would have no objection to such action 
on the part of the Federal Reserve. Should such action be taken by 
the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would be prepared 
to announce a similar revision of its regulation on maximun rates of 
interest payable by nonmember insured banks. 

1435 
4/18/68 
-12-
Mr. Holland reported that members of the Board's staff had 
talked with the Acting Manager of the System Open Market Account, who 
in turn had talked with the President of the New York Reserve Bank. 
There was concurrence on their part with the proposed rate schedule except 
for some feeling that announcement of a maximum rate of 6-1/2 per cent 
for CD's with maturities of six months or more might have an undesired 
psychological effect and that banks might be able to obtain a fairly 
large amount of funds within that maximum. A maximum rate of 6-1/4 
per cent had been mentioned as a possible alternative. 
The question of the maximum rate for CD's of longer maturities 
was then considered somewhat further, with Governor Mitchell again 
presenting the case for allowing banks a certain amount of latitude, 
within a posture of general constraint, if after consideration of various 
factors, both present and prospective, they wished to commit themselves 
to deposits with maturities of six months or more. However, other Board 
members were more inclined, in all the circumstances, to accept a rate 
schedule building up to 6-1/4 per cent for maturities of at least six 
months. All members recognized that such a schedule might not prove 
viable for an extended period. 
Accordingly, the Board approved unanimously, effective April 19, 
1968, an amendment to the Supplement to Regulation Q, Payment of Interest 
on Deposits, to provide that no member bank should pay interest at a 
rate in excess of the following percentages on the maturities indicated 
on any single maturity time deposit of $100,000 or more: 

1435 
4/18/68 
-13-
Maximum rate 
Maturity 
per annum 
30-59 days 
5-1/2 
60-89 days 
5-3/4 
90-179 days 
6 
180 days or more 
6-1/4 
The Board also gave consideration to the press release to be 
issued with respect to the actions taken today. 
At the Chairman's request, all members of the staff except 
Mr. Holland then withdrew from the room. 
The Chairman reported that the White House had been advised of 
the action taken by the Board to approve an increase in Federal Reserve 
Bank discount rates from 5 per cent to 5-1/2 per cent, and that a White 
House spokesman had asked that the Board withhold announcement of its 
action until Monday, pending an opportunity for the President (who was 
out of the city) to discuss the matter with the Chairman. The Chairman 
indicated that he had asked for an opportunity to speak by telephone 
with the President at the earliest opportunity, which would probably 
be later in the day. 
The Board members noted the difficulties posed by any delay in 
public announcement of the discount rate action, since a substantial 
number of persons within the System and elsewhere in the Government 
had by now been made aware of the action taken. Top officials at both 
the Treasury and the Council of Economic Advisers had been informed and 

1435 
4/18/68 
-14-
had indicated no objection to the action. On the other hand, it was 
recognized that the President might have views or confidential infor-
mation that could have a bearing on the appropriateness of a rate 
increase at this time. 
Accordingly, after discussion it was agreed that announcement 
of the approval of the discount rate increase would be withheld pending 
the forthcoming conversation between the Chairman and the President, 
and that in the light of that conversation the Chairman in his dis-
cretion could reconvene the Board to reconsider the action or could 
authorize the staff to proceed with a public announcement of the action. 
(Note: Shortly following this meeting the Chairman reported 
that he had been successful in reaching the President and discussing 
the matter with him, and that such conversation was favorably concluded 
in a manner that warranted proceeding promptly with public announce-
ment of the discount rate action. Attached as Item No.2 is a copy of 
the press release subsequently issued. Attached as Item No. 3 is a 
copy of the amended Supplement to Regulation Q as published in the 
Federal Register.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
acceptance of the resignation of 
Nathaniel Greenspun, Economist in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business April 20, 
1968. 

mm 
1435 
4/18/68 
-15-
On April 18, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached 
indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Item No. 
' 
(. i .<»• 
•'•'•: I,;.V/
 4 
Letter to Metairie Savings Bank & Trust 
Company, Metairie, Louisiana, granting 
an extension of time within which to 
establish an in-town branch. 
Seer etary 
> V' 
r (i 
I.v 
\ . » ' 
* '* 
' * 

Item No. 1 
4/18/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C„ 
i-PSSllih • 
the Matter of the Application of 
*' 
VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH BANKSHARES, INC., 
Richmond, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of all of 
^ e voting shares to be issued by The 
First Colonial Bank, Virginia Beach, 
i r
ginia, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
l 8 4 2
(a)(3)) and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, 
n c
*» Richmond, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of acquisition 
all of the voting shares to be issued by The First Colonial Bank, 
^*
r
ginia Beach, Virginia, a proposed new bank, 
. - 
' ' ' • ' ! ' !
 r
? ' ' 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
C
°n®iis8ioner of Banking for the State of Virginia of the application and 
t e s t e d 
his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended 
a
PProval of the a p p l i c a t i o n . 

-1 (». jA 
o , 
; 
r ^ ' M i M
1 
144 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 30, 1967 (32 Federal Register 
16452), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
v
lews with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
rwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considers-
Uon, xime for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
re
ceived have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St 
a
tement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
'
 
t
^
l a t
 the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
•:;f later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
*P®rioH 4 
U Q
 is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
r
m
m 
Richmond pursuant to delegated authority, and that The 
f* Colonial Bank shall be open for business not later than six months 
the date of this O r d e r . 
a i 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 18th day of April, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
• ' 'V 
_ ® 
i, " • 
< 
tSEAL] 'J . 
'\ . 
V: . 'i 
CXSvj - ' 
' 'A ' " V « . 
• : 
• 
; 
* 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1443 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY VIRGINIA COMMONWEALTH BANKSHARES, INC., 
RICHMOND, VIRGINIA, FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 
OF VOTING SHARES OF THE FIRST COLONIAL BANK, 
VIRGINIA BEACH, VIRGINIA. 
STATEMENT 
a: 
." . ' . 
• ; 
, • 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia 
(ni 
Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
of Governors pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
P a n y A c t 
o f
 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
q U l S l t l o n o f
 all of the voting shares of The First Colonial Bank, 
8 l n l a B e a c
h , Virginia ("Bank"), a new institution which Applicant 
P r o p o a e a 
°
 e a
tablish. Applicant presently controls 10 banks which 
°P
e
*ate 7n offices with total deposits of $366 million. 
Applicant 
L 
e8
tlinates m 
a t B a n
k , which will begin operation with two offices, 
have $i o *i 
* 
million of deposits after three years of operation. 
Yiews^and^ recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
^ired h 
0 f
 Banki 
f
Cquire(j , 
y section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Commissioner 
n
8 for the State of Virginia of receipt of the application and 
^ s t e d hi 
views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner 
that the application be approved. 
• 
®®nkTnft d 
r
®flect acq i
t a a t e
 °
f J u n e 
3 0
»
 
1 9 6 7
»
 u n l e s s
 otherwise noted, and 
and mergers approved by appropriate supervisory 
to date. 

:< 1 
- 2 -
444 
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
m
°nopoli2e or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
the United States, Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 
ac
quisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
8u
bstantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which <r, 
m any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
°
ard f l n d
s that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of tho community to 
bg S e 
In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
* community to be served. 
Competitive. effect of proposed transaction, - The nine largest 
o r
g a n i z a t i o n s in V i r g i n i a , each of which has deposits in excess 
o f
 $100 
b
^ k i n 8 
these 
million, include five bank holding companies. In the aggregate, 
53 
0r
8anizations account for about 63 per cent of the deposits and 
Per C e n t 
o f
 the offices of all commercial banks In the State, Appli-
cant i a 
e fourth largest banking organization and the second largest 
>ank holdi 
Posit 
Pre 
be 
n
8 company in the State, controlling 6.6 per cent of the total 
4 C 3
 and 7 Q 
per ccnt of the commercial banking offices. Since the 
S e n t p r o
P*sal involves 
Applicant's relative size nor its' share of total deposits would 
7 affected by consummation of the transaction. 
n e
u h c r 
imme 
acquisition of a bank to be established, 

1445 
.-3-
Bank's main office and its only branch will be located 
2 L 
1/ 
miles apart. The projected primary service areas 
of the two 
°ffices are contiguous and, except for a small portion of the branch's 
Primary service area that extends into the city of Norfolk, are within 
the City limits of Virginia Beach. Located within these contiguous 
a r e a s a r e
 U other commercial banking offices, five of which are 
Ranches of the State's two largest independent banks and five of 
«-
w
hich are branches of subsidiaries of the State's largest and third 
Ingest bank holding companies. The only other commercial banking office 
the 
4-
... . 
area is a branch of The Fir3t National Bank of Norfolk, a bank 
W h l c h 0
P
e
ned for business in January 1965 and had deposits of $21 million 
o f
 December 31, 1967. The rapid growth of The First National Bank 
f
 Norfolk attests to its ability to compete successfully with the larger 
batiks ^ 
m the area; Applicant's entry into Virginia Beach is likely to 
tntenaif 
l f
y that competition, but is unlikely to have an undue effect on 
the 
°ntinued growth of The First National Bank of Norfolk or other banks 
0m
Peting i n t h e 
a r e a -
Applicant's only subsidiary that derives any significant 
b u 8
*ness f 
irom the Virginia Beach area is Bank of Virginia, which operates 
three b ranches in Norfolk, approximately nine miles from Bank's nearest 
°ffice 
mi 
• inese offices derive about 8 per cent of their IPC deposits, 
per * 
-ent of their commercial loans, and 16 per cent of their consumer 
loans f r °m the projected service areas of Bank's two proposed offices. 
|L °vever 
a j 
» since the establishment of Bank is contingent upon approval of 
o r 
d e
riv e
 a r e a s 
f r o m
 which it is estimated that each of these offices will 
and C n ™°
re
 than 75 per cent of its deposits of individuals, partnerships, 
c
°rporations ("IPC deposits"). 

11446 
- 4 -
t h
e present application, consummation of the proposed transaction would 
n
°t result in the elimination of any existing or potential competition. 
Also, since each of Bank of Virginia's competitors in the Norfolk area 
h a S o f f
ices in Virginia Beach, Applicant's expansion into the latter area 
W o u
ld simply place Applicant on a more equal footing with those organi-
2 a t
ions with respect to office coverage of the combined Norfolk-Virginia 
B e
*ch area. 
The effect of the proposal would be to permit Applicant, through 
a n
ewly organized subsidiary, to compete more fully in Virginia Beach with 
th
°se institutions with which its largest subsidiary, Bank of Virginia, 
already competes in Norfolk, Within the Norfolk-Virginia Beach area, 
o f
 Virginia, with six per cent of total area deposits, ranks fourth 
m
°
ng t h e 
s l x
 competing banks; offices of the Virginia National Bank (total 
P
°
8 l t 3 o f
 $441 million) and of Seaboard Citizens National Bank (total 
e P
°
S l t s o f
 
million), the latter a subsidiary of United Virginia 
S h a r e s , Inc., the largest registered bank holding company in the State, 
for 57 per cent and 21 per cent, respectively, of total deposits in 
that ar 
e a
' Consummation of the proposal therefore would not have the 
effect of 
expanding a dominant institution or organization in the area. 
The Board concludes, on the basis of the record before it, that 
Animation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, nor 
furt-h 
cnerance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to 
a t
tem p t t-rs monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
K e i
ther H 
°es it appear likely that such consummation would substantially 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any 
8 e C t l
°* of t h e country. 

Financial and managerial resources and future prospect. - The 
financial history and condition of Applicant are reasonably satisfactory 
its prospects are considered favorable. Deposits and loans of the 
, u
 |idiary banks have experienced reasonable growth and their earnings 
good. Applicant's lead bank, Bank of Virginia, has a comprehensive 
t r a
ining program and has developed a source of managerial talent. The 
,
 n
eral quality of operation and the sound condition of the subsidiary 
r e
flect the satisfactory quality of their management and the effec-
l v
« administrative control exercised by the senior officials of Applicant. 
Bank, not yet opened for business, has no financial history. It 
viji «. 
oegin operation with capital funds of $500,000, and will be located 
...area which has witnessed rapid economic expansion and which is 
x
Pected to show continued growth. It is anticipated that Bank will hold 
,11ion, $9 million, and $12 million of deposits at the end of each of 
its fJ r s
t three years, and will begin to experience profitable operation 
by 
"
 
e n d 
o f
 its second year. Applicant,recognizing the need for peri-
creases in Bank's capital in order to support the projected rapid 
Etowth < 
11
 its deposits, has developed a program to do so, beginning in 
Bank's principal operating officers, who will be drawn from the 
**°rfolk br 
u 
"ranches of Bank of Virginia, have extensive banking experience 
a n d
 are f 
tamiliar with the Virginia Beach area. Applicant's President 
a s
 Chairman of Bank's Board of Directors. 
°n the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
C
°
n s
id e r a t. 
ions relating to the financial and managerial resources and 
Pt
°
8
Pects 
\ 
of Applicant and its proposed subsidiary are consistent with 
a
PPr 0 V a l 
-
,,
 
o f
 the application. 

1448 
- 6 -
' ifRi i * 
' 
Convenience and needs of the communities jitoblvecU - Bank's 
®ain office and branch are to be located in two newly developed areas 
about midway between the Virginia Beach resort area and downtown 
Norfolk. Virginia Beach is primarily a residential area with an econ-
°
my b a
sed on tourism, light industry, and commercial and service estab-
Ushments. Population of the city is expected to triple within the next 
2 0
 years. 
Although Bank will be the only commercial bank with a main 
o f
fice in Virginia Beach, the area is served by 11 branch offices of 
banks, including 10 branches operated by four of the five largest 
diking organizations in the State, There is no evidence that any 
ba
nking services needed by the community are not conveniently available. 
However, the establishment of Bank, and its acquisition by Applicant, 
Wfil 11 J 
Provide an additional competitive source of a complete line of 
a^ing services at a time when the population, commercial business 
and banking needs of the area are undergoing rapid expansion. 
Acquisition of Bank will have little or no effect on 
^ u n i t i e s presently served by Applicant. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the 
U n i t i e s Involved are consistent with, and lend some weight toward, 
a
Pproval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - Based on all the relevant facts 
n t a i n e d
 in the record and in light of the factors set forth in 
®®ct i n
 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tr
®naactt( 
s h o
«ld be 
Lon would be In the public interest and that the application 
approved. 
A
Ptil 
1968. 

§ f* (b 
l i i l i . 4 i : . 
i i 
i i i t t ' j 
•f^lRt^V 
for immediate release. 
Item No. 2 
4/18/68 
April 18, 1968 
The Federal Reserve announced today further actions to 
restrain intensifying inflationary pressures and to strengthen 
the position of the dollar at home and abroad. 
The Board of Governors approved actions by the directors 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and 
Minneapolis increasing the discount rates of those banks to 5-1/2 
Per cent from 5 per cent, effective tomorrow (April 19, 1968). 
In additi on, the Board adopted a new schedule of maximum 
rates of interest payable by member banks on large denomination 
*
*
• 
/ 
. 
n e
8otiable certificates of deposit. The schedule provides for 
ximum rates for such certificates--those of $100,000 or m o r e — a s 
£ 0 l l 
*(Correction: 
Rates applicable to 
0 w s
, also effective April 19, 1968: any single maturity time deposit of 
Ci no nr»r> 
. _ ^ i 
. 
• 
- J1. 
V l.SV 
For maturities of: 
30-59 days 
60-89 days 
90-179 days 
180 days and over 
$100,000 or more, whether negotiable 
Maximum Rate
 
o r
 non-negotiable j 
5-1/2 per cent 
5-3/4 per cent 
6 per cent 
6-1/4 per cent 
The maximum rate previously payable on these large 
d o m i n a t i o n certificates was 5-1/2 per cent for all maturities 
OVgf 
, 
days. No change was made in maximum rates payable on other 
types of time and savings deposits. 
Voting for the actions were Chairman Martin and Governors 
k
e r
tson, Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. Absent and not voting were 
Go 
°
Ve
rnors Maisel and Sherrill. 
-0-

Item No. I 4 5 O 
4/18/68 
R i l i 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
A'-Vv V •« •> 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL PvESERVE SYSTEM 
c 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
U e g . Q] 
PART 217 - PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
i\M \.<:,\\ .•;}•, > 
Maximum Rates of Interest 
1. Effective April 19, 1963, § 217.6 (Supplement to Regulation Q) 
I s
 amended to read as follows: 
Maximum rates of interest payable on time and savings deposits by 
member banks. 
• 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
A c t
 and § 217.3, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
hereby prescribes the following maximum rates-^ of interest payable by 
ember banks of the Federal Reserve System on time and savings deposits: 
(a) 
Single maturity time deposits. 
(1) Deposits of $100,000 or more. No member bank shall 
P a y i n t
erest on any single maturity time deposit of $100,000 or more at 
r a t
e i n excess of the applicable rate under the following schedule: 
a 
Maximum per cent 
Maturity 
per annum 
30 - 59 days 
5-1/2 
60 - 89 days 
5-3/4 
90 -179 days 
6 
1C0 days or more 
6-1/4 
K e s
 
m
a:;inmm rates of interest payable by member banks of the Federal 
ap D l
 V e
 System on time and savings deposits as prescribed herein are not 
hank ,
 
t o
 any deposit which is payable only at an office of a member 
of n J°cated outside of the States of the United States and the District 
C
°lumbia. 

(2) Deposits of less than $100,000. No member bank shall 
Pay interest at a rate in excess of 5 per cent per annum on any single 
Maturity time deposit of less than $100,000. 
(b) Multiple maturity time deposits. 
(!) Deposits payable at intervals of at least 90 days. 
J 
* w i 
j . 
N o
 member banlc shall pay interest at a rate in excess of 5 per cent per 
annum 
on a multiple maturity time deposit that is payable only 90 days 
r e a f t e r 
t h e 
d
ate of deposit, or 90 days or more after the last 
/ J\,;-V.v < (,- 
' 
• 
Receding date on which it might have been paid. 
(
2
) Deposits payable at intervals of less than 90 days. 
No mpmL 
, 
er banl; shall pay interest at a rate in excess of 4 per cent per 
annum on 
n
 a multiple maturity time deposit that is payable less than 
d
ays after the date of deposit, or less than 90 days (but at least 
3 0
 days} n f t. 
> arter the last preceding date on which it might have been paid. 
• 
• •' 
Savings deposits. No member bank shall pay interest at a 
r
ate i n 
excess of 4 per cent per annum on any savings deposit, 
adulating the rate of interest paid, the effects of compounding of 
l n t e
r e s t 
m
ay be disregarded. A member bank that elects to compound 
Merest -
either at the maximum permissible rate or at a lower rate -
statA ».L 
h e
 basis of compounding (such as semiannually, quarterly, 
^nthiy 
weekly, daily, or continuously) in every advertisement, announce-
ment 
e , 
» S o l i c i j - . J . . 
L a c i o n
) and agreement relating to the rate of interest paid 
a H 
a d e
Posit 

-3- 
3 - 4 
I f ® 
••v •.''. v'-'.. . • 
' f 
2a. The only change is to raise the maximum rate of interest 
a
 member bank may pay on single maturity time deposits of $100,000 or 
1003:6
» which heretofore has been 5-1/2 per cent, to 5-3/4, 6, and 6-1/4 
Per cent for deposits with maturities of 60 to 89 days, 90 to 179 days, 
a n d
 180 days or more, respectively. The principal purpose of the change 
to guard against disruption of financial markets that could occur in 
i 
event of an undue contraction of such deposits. 
'
M
^
- 
for 
v 
b. The requirements of section 553(b), Title 5, United States 
c
ode, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
te 
"ere not followed in connection with this amendment because the 
a r
 
found that the general credit situation and the public interest 
COR* 
Pelled it to make the action effective no later than the date adopted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 18th day of April, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
" n
f -
M'v A
:
 '
 :
f .•. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
ti 
... "a;;; 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
'.•v'i- (SEAL) 

Item No. 
4/18/68 
April 18, 1968 
board of Directors 
Metalr1e Savlnqs Bank 
& Trust Company 
fetalr1e, Lou1s i ana 
70004 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under duly delegated authority, 
this Dank approves an extension of the time wltMn which a 
branch nay be established on Veterans femorial Highway between 
Cleary and Plchland Streets, Metalrle, Louisiana, to 
^ur.e 2C, 19G8. 
President 
CC: 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Very truly yours. 
R 
E 
C 
O 
E 
D 
C
O
P
Y 
