& 609 
5-67) 
Minutes for 
January 5, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
adv ise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
L n . 

11 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 5, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Sigel, Smith, Eckert, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, 
and Kichline of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Baker, Bryant, 
Gekker, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, with particular reference to current and 
Prospective Treasury financing, Mr. Eckert commented on recent and 
Prospective bank credit developments, Mr. Kichline discussed the cor-
porate and municipal bond markets, and Mr. Baker summarized foreign 
exchange and gold market developments. Copies of the charts and tables 
distributed in connection with today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 

1/5/68 
-2-
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill and Smith withdrew from the 
meeting, as did Mr. Broida and Miss McWhirter, and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Cleaver and Greenspun, Economists, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Waller, Supervisory Accountant, Office of the 
Controller 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta on December 29, 1967, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on January 2, 1968, and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on January 4, 1968, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of National-Dime Bank of Shamokin, Shamokin, Pennsylvania, and 
Pennsylvania National Bank and Trust Company, Pottsville, Pennsylvania, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. 
The con-
clusion read as follows: 

1/5/68 
-3-
Consuiranation of the proposed merger of Pennsylvania 
National Bank and Trust Company, Pottsville, Pennsylvania, 
and National-Dime Bank of Shamokin, Shamokin, Pennsylvania, 
would eliminate virtually no present competition; however, 
it would foreclose the potential for competition, particu-
larly that which would attend the Pottsville Bank's de novo 
entry into the Shamokin area. 
It is concluded that the 
overall effect on competition would be slightly adverse. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of The First National Bank of Fort Fairfield, Fort 
Fairfield, Maine, with Aroostook Trust Company, Caribou, Maine. 
The 
conclusion stated that the overall effect of the proposal on competi-
tion would be adverse. 
During discussion a view was expressed that the recommended 
conclusion appeared inconsistent with the analysis in parts of the 
body of the report. There was agreement with a suggestion that the 
report be revised so as to set forth the facts more clearly. 
Accord-
ingly, the report was remanded to the staff for further analysis. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of The Cuba National Bank, Cuba, New York, into 
The Citizens National Bank of Wellsville, Wellsville, New York, in a 
form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Cuba 
National Bank and The Citizens National Bank of Wells-
ville would eliminate a small amount of existing com-
petition and potential competition. The overall com-
petitive effect would be slightly adverse. 

14 
1/5/68 
-4-
Delegation of authority (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
regarding a question raised in connection with the Board's Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority as to the establishment of certain 
kinds of branches by State member banks. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Assessment to cover Board expenses. 
In a distributed memoran-
dum dated January 4, 1968, the Board's Controller recommended that an 
assessment of .00578 of the total paid-in capital and surplus of the 
Federal Reserve Banks as of December 31, 1967, be levied upon the Banks 
to provide the approximate amount of cash needed for estimated expendi-
tures of the Board for the first half of 1968. The assessment would 
produce approximately $6,933,000. 
The levying of the proposed assessment was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Acting on behalf of 
the Board under delegated authority, the 
Director of the Division of Examinations 
today approved the sending of letters to 
all foreign banking and foreign financing 
corporations operating under sections 25 
and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
calling for reports of condition as of 
December 31, 1967. 
On January 4 and 5, 1968, actions were 
also taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 

1/5/68 
-5-
On January 4, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to State Bank of Paradise, Paradise, 
Pennsylvania, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, approving the relocation of the 
bank's Marble Mortgage Company Office from 
7872 Ivanhoe Avenue, La Jolla, to 303 "A" 
Street, San Diego. 
On January 5, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, 
Hammond, Louisiana, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in Tangipahoa Parish. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to First State Bank of Greenville, 
Greenville, Michigan, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch 
in Eureka Township, Montcalm County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Fresno. 

16 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
I
t e m No. 1 
, • 
* R W * . 
O F 
T H E 
1 / 5 / 6 8 
.-'0Of COta-'. 
. 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
S-2043 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 5, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
A question has been raised in connection with the Board's 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority as to the procedure to be 
followed in those instances where State authorities permit bank», 
without specific approval, (1) to establish and operate so-called 
"loan production offices" in conjunction with mortgage loan activities, 
or (2) to establish and operate paying and receiving or drive-in 
facilities. 
The Board has expressed the view that a "loan production 
office" is a branch within the purview of section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and section 5155 of the Revised Statutes (F.R.L.S.#3566). 
It has also expressed similar views regarding tellers
1 windows located 
on property which is not actually adjoining the property on which an 
existing office of the bank is located and which is not connected to 
an existing office by a bank-controlled passage through which people 
may pass. 
In acting on domestic branch applications in such instances, 
the requirement of section 265.2(f)(1)(viii) of the Board's Rules 
Regarding Delegation of Authority that approval "by the appropriate 
State authority" be obtained before the Reserve Bank can act cannot 
be met because the establishment of those offices does not require 
specific approval under State law. 
It was the Board
1s practice, prior to the adoption of the 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority, to act on branch applications 
only after receipt of notification from the Reserve Bank that the 
State authorities had formally issued an approval or an intent to do 
s o . In those cases where the State authorities did not regard the 
proposed office as a branch and were not required to grant permission 

47 
2 
S-2043 
for Its establishment, the Board necessarily proceeded to act on the 
application without the notification of State approval. This pro-
cedure should also be followed by each Reserve Bank in acting under 
its authority to permit the establishment of domestic branches by 
State member banks. Therefore, if all other conditions set forth in 
section 265.2(f)(1)(viii) 
of the Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority are met, applications for the approval of branches that 
do not require approval by State authorities should be considered • 
within the scope of the Reserve Bank's authority either to approve 
or deny. 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

48 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
19101 
Item No. 2 
1/5/68 
O E P A R T M E N T 
O F I 
E X A M I N A T I O N 
January 4, 1968 
Board of Directors 
State Bank of Paradise 
Paradise, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen: 
Under date of December 27, 1967 your institution 
has signified its intention to withdraw from the Federal 
Reserve System effective March 30, 1968 and has requested 
waiver of the six months' notice of such withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia waives the requirement 
of six months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions 
of section 208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your 
institution may accomplish termination of its membership 
at any time within eight months from the date that notice 
of intention to withdraw was given. Upon surrender to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia of the Federal Reserve 
Bank stock issued to your institution, such stock will be 
cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
On the date withdrawal takes place the certificate 
of membership should be returned to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia. 
It should be noted that withdrawal of a bank from 
the Federal Reserve System terminates the bank's deposit insur-
ance in the absence of an agreement from the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation to continue the insurance following with-
drawal. If you have not done so, you should contact the F.D.I.C. 
to get assurance from them in writing that the bank's deposit 
insurance will be continued after the bank leaves the System. 
Accordingly, your bank should not make its withdrawal effective 
until advice on the insurance coverage has been received from the 
F.D.I.C. 
Very truly yours, 
Joseph R . Campbell 
Vice President 

19 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F B A N C I S O O , 
C X T I Y O I N I A 
0 4 1 1 0 
„ 
Item No. 3 
1/5/68 
January 4 # 1968 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior E::ecuuive Vice President, 
Uniced California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Mendon: 
On behalf of the Boar 
Reserve System, acting under da 
has approved the relocation of y 
Company Office from 7872 Ivanhoa 
to new quarters a tX5l)3"£
H\Straat, 
of Governor^ of the federal 
gated authority, this Bank 
r banWyflarble Mortgage 
Li Jolla, California, 
the City of San Diego, 
California, provided that o^aratloM>\at the bank's existing 
office are discontinued slnultanaoualf^with tha opening of 
the office at trie new location* 
Tfcls afproval la given with 
the understanding that tha op^ratlooa to be conducted at the 
location wll\ still ba lli»itad to tha negotiating, 
Processin£, and servicing of real estate mortgage loans. 
It will be appreciated if you will advise tha Board 
of Governorc i/a writing, through this bank, when the office 
aciruelly yst^blished and opened for business at the new 
teat Ion. 
•ery truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

50 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
1/5/68 
O F A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
Jeaaary 3, 1968 
*oard of Directors 
Guaranty Bank & Trust Conpany 
Ham» o n <i > Louisiana 70401 
Gentlaaien: 
On bahalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
y«ta», acting undar duly dalagatad authority, this Bank haa approvad 
•«tabllshra«nt of a branch to ba locatad at tha c o m a r of Borth 
«* Street and Wardllna Road in Tangipahoa Pariah just outside tha city 
limits of H a m o n d , sublet to issuanca of a cartificata of authority 
to do so by tha 3tata Bank Coratuisaloner, and provided tha branch Is 
••tablishad by January 1„ 1969. 
Copy of the Stata lank Comalsslottir's cartificata of authority 
to establish the branch ahould ba fomerded to this Bank whan it has 
b«®n issued. 
Harold T. Patterson 
President 
Y 
C c : 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
S O U T H L A S A L L E S T R E E T 
J " /
6
1 / ^
0 ' 
5 
0 * 0 * 0 0 . I L L I N O I S <#*#> 
1/5/68 
O I L ) H A 
M N O 
January 5 , 1$6& 
Mr. T. R, Heoslcr, President 
Firct State Bank of Greenville 
Greenville, Michigan 1+8838 
Ibar Mr. Hocaler: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, under delegated 
authority, this Bank crants an extension of tixae of six months frco 
January 14, 1968, within vhlch your hank cay sstabliih a hraaoh OM 
block vest of the city U n i t s of Greenville on Highway H-57, Xorak* 
Tovnship, Montcalm County, Michigan, 
Very truly yours, 
V 
/.) 
Loinad Boca 
Vice President 
EGF:rk 
cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
State Banking Department 
Examiner's file 
C O P Y 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N 
FFLKANCIAOO, 
C A U F O E N U 
0 4 1 1 0 
Item No. 
January 5, 1968 
1/5/68 
Mr. Hal Mendon, 
Senior Executive Tice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Mendon: 
I 
Reference ia made to your letter of January 2, 196% re-
questing an extension of the tiae within which United California 
lank may establish r branch office in the vicinity o M t a ^ M e p s 
Avenue between Fresno and Tulare Streets, Frft^no, California. 
Original .pprovsl for the oe^ablishraenV of this branch 
was granted by th<e Board of Governors of the Federal Beoerve 
Systam on Augual: 5, 1964, and, with\jubsequent>*xtcnBion8, will 
now expire on Fcbturry 3, 1963. Whiife it i ^ ^ e c agnized that the 
circumatanccs nurriunddja^-the^long del\v^Kave, to e large extent, 
been beyond the control of the pank, wcNcro concerned that 
negotiations over s / long a period of eltto have not led to any 
firm coram iancnc* fdr the branch. 
^ 
the Board jot Governors of the Federal 
Beseira: Syr-tern, 2Clingy under dej^gated cuthority, this Bank has 
approved an exicntion 
1968, of the time within which 
your ban
7: msy establish subject branch office. This date coincides 
with the last extension granted by the Stete Banking Department. 
\ 
As indicated by Assistant Vies President Jamison during 
his ce^piiiiuirconversation "with Mr. Schsnlienberger this date, the 
approval has been outstanding an unreasonable length of time, and 
the current extension is granted with the understanding thji. 
United California Bank will be in a position to provide concreLe 
plans and a t melable for proceeding with the branch at that time 
or will withdraw the application. 
•ery truly yours, 
totaled) Ir-ln t. JT*w*n«s 
Irwin 1». Jennings, 
Vies President. 
