• . 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 16, 1970 

135 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 16, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT:' Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
Internation Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 

1 3 6 
1/16/70 
- 7 -
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia on January 15, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in its existing schedule was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to that Bank. 
Nassau branch. A letter to The Connecticut Bank and Trust 
Company, Hartford, Connecticut, granting permission for the establish-
ment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
V1'--' 
-«• 
1 i 
u ... ' '. 
J.'-:- 
' 
. . 
,• . 
v 
.Ui..„ 
. j r . . . . 
First National City Overseas. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, 
granting consent to the acquisition of shares 
°f Princeza S.A. - Credito, Financiamento e Investimento, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank 
Houlton, Houlton, Maine, and The First National Bank of Fort 
Fairfield, 
Fort Fairfield, Maine, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as 
follows: 

1/16/70 
- 3 -
Although there is no significant competition existing 
between The First National Bank of Houlton and The First 
National Bank of Fort Fairfield, a subsidiary of Depositors 
Corporation, Augusta, Maine, a registered bank holding 
company, there is potential for increased competition 
between them. The transaction would eliminate one of the 
largest banks in Aroostook County and would increase sub-
stantially the concentration of banking resources in the 
two largest banking organizations serving that county. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposed transaction would 
be substantially adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of Lava Hot Springs State Bank, Lava Hot Springs, 
Idaho, and The Cassia National Bank of Burley, Burley, Idaho, was 
£2££oved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
There is no competition between Lava Hot Springs State 
Bank and The Cassia Bank of Burley; consummation of the 
proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Savings & Trust Company of Indiana. Drafts of an order 
and statement reflecting the Board's approval on December 30, 1969, 
o f the application of The Savings & Trust Company of Indiana, 
!ndiana, Pennsylvania, to merge with Farmers' & Miners Trust 
c°mpany, Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3. 
Amendment to Regulation Q. On November 5, 1969, the 
B°ard had amended Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, so 
a s to broaden the exemption from interest rate limitations for 

1 3 8 
1/16/70 
- 7 -
foreign governments and agencies thereof, as well as certain inter-
national institutions. In a memorandum dated January 15, 1970, the 
Legal Division expressed the opinion that the language of the regula-
tion, as amended, was sufficiently broad to exempt foreign state, 
provincial, and local governmental units as well as foreign national 
governments. However, the Division of International Finance was of 
the view that it had been the intent in amending Regulation Q to 
extend the exemption only to foreign national governments. Clari-
fication of the question was sought in connection with an imminent 
bond issue by the Province of Ontario, Canada. In the event it had 
not been the intent of the Board to broaden the exemption to the 
extent defined by the Legal Division, a proposed further amendment 
was attached to the memorandum that would reflect the view of the 
Division of International Finance. 
Comments were directed to the background against which the 
regulation had originally been amended, and consideration was given 
to the consequences of the alternative courses of action now avail-
able to the Board. It was the consensus that the view expressed by 
the Division of International Finance reflected the intent of the 
Board and that confirmation of such intent would be appropriate. 
The adoption of the amendment was then approved unanimously, 
effective January 16, 1970. A copy of the amendment in the form in 
which it was published in the Federal Register is attached as 
item No. 4. 

I 3 f ) 
1/16/70 
- 3 -
Charter Bankshares. On January 7, 1970, the Board directed 
that an oral presentation be conducted in connection with the appli-
cation of Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to 
acquire shares of The First National Bank of St. Petersburg, The 
First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, and The Harbor City 
National Bank of Eau Gallie, all in Florida, for the purpose of 
determining the extent, if any, to which The Charter Company, 
Jacksonville, Florida, exercised control over Charter Bankshares or 
influenced its management or operations. 
In a memorandum dated January 15, 1970, Mr. O'Connell 
proposed arrangements in connection with the oral presentation, 
which would be held on February 17, 1970, including the issuance of 
a press statement indicating that testimony would be received from 
designated persons and that the oral presentation would be public. 
There was discussion of the procedural arrangements 
relating to receipt of confidential information, and the staff 
responded to a number of questions in that regard. 
Suggestions were made for expansion of the order for oral 
presentation to identify the purpose for which it would be held as 
well as to indicate that testimony pertinent to the issue under 
consideration would be received from all parties that the Board 
considered appropriate. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the issuance of an 
order in the form attached as Item No. 5. 

1 1 0 
1/16/70 
- 7 -
Watergate Office Building. Unanimous approval was given 
to the recommendation of the Division of Administrative Services, as 
set forth in a memorandum dated January 12, 1970, that a lease be 
negotiated with Riverview Realty Corporation for an additional 
3,200 square feet of space in the Watergate Office Building at an 
annual rate of $22,400, such space to be subleased from Trident 
Laboratories, Inc. 
Subcommittee appointment. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Chairman of the Presidents' Conference Committee on 
Management and Personnel designating Thomas J. 0'Connell as 
Associate Member of the Subcommittee of Counsel that would advise 
on matters involving unionization. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
Reappointment of consultants. A memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration dated December 22, 1969, submitted 
recommendations from seven divisions for the reappointment of 52 
consultants for the calendar year beginning January 1, 1970. 
The reappointment of the consultants for the calendar 
year beginning January 1, 1970, was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that the terms of reappointment in each case would 
be as stated in the memorandum. 
The Board also approved unanimously the payment of fees 
t o William E. Simkin as Consultant at the rate of $110 per day, 
Pins actual necessary transportation expenses in accordance with 

1 4 1 
1/16/70 
- 7 -
the Board's travel regulations and a per diem in lieu of subsistence 
not to exceed $11, plus the actual cost of a room for that period of 
time spent in travel status. 
Overexpenditures in budget accounts. Governor Robertson 
referred to a memorandum that had been prepared listing overexpendi-
tures in various 1969 budget accounts. Question was raised whether 
action on the part of the Board was required at this time, and the 
Controller explained that the list referred to was incomplete, having 
been prepared on the basis of information available prior to the 
end of the year 1969. He said that a complete statement of budget 
overexpenditures would be included in the final report on performance 
under the 1969 budget, which would be distributed to the Board in 
the near future. 
Accordingly, action on the overexpenditures described in 
the memorandum referred to by Governor Robertson was deferred. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Or GOV ''. 
K 
l i f e 
BCJARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20555 
Item No.. 1 
1/16/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPQNDEN 
TD THE BOARD 
II 
January 16, >1970 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, 
°ne Constitution Plaza, 
Hartford} Connecticut. 
06115 
Gentl emen 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
x ts permission to The Connecticut Bank and Trust Companv, Hartford, 
Connecticut, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the 
Federal Reserve A.ct, to establish a branch ir. Nassau, Bahamas, and 
to operate and Maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Sections and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
ranch will be used for developing new interrational business and 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
nited States,, It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, jc supplied under contract by 
another party. 
In view of the unusual character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing special 
servaticn and review by the Board and after due notice may be with-
rawn or modified. 
The foregoing permission is also granted on the 
condit.ion that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
^ H be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
°ard and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be 
Promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of 
°Peration, including changes in any contract under which services 
a r e supplied to the branch. 
^ 
. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
siness on or before February 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
ail be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
anted will automatically terminate on that date. 
^ 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
jjGserve Bank of Boston, when the branch is opened for business. 
The 
^°ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
lon of the branch in Nassau. 

1 4 3 
iThe Connecticut Bank arid 
' Trust Company 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
l s to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United 
States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a defl-
a t e , necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
CaPital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
f°r purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
oard1s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
°n the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
Reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
cates. Accordingly, it is understood•that any investments required 
V 7 U 1 ke made wif.nin the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
ending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
i 

I l l 
B D A R D D F G G V £ R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
1/16/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 16, 1970 
First National CLty Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
°f November 28, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold 200,000 shares 
(100 per cent) cf Princeza S.A. - Credito, Financiamento e Investimer.to 
("Princeza"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximately 
$820,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Princeza by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Princeza if Princeza at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
.Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if Princeza establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Princeza as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Princeza 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Princeza were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Princeza at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Princeza, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject, to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Princeza in Brazil in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board oi Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Sank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of Princeza. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
establishec. under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
>Tour Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly ycurs, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
' ' * ? O J ; V ' v • $, • > > 
» s 1 4 • ' ' i ' 
{ > j, i "t ' ' V'-'l)-;' t' 
« ' 
r,"iV/fy.',- V" s 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 
1/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the iiatter of the Application of 
' 
THE SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY OF INDIANA1 
approval of merger uith 
1 
Farmers 1 & Miners 1 Trust Company 
1 
"* 
* 
•• 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1328(c)), an application by The Savings 
& Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, Pennsylvania, a State member bank 
0 f 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank and Farmers' & Miners1 Trust Company, Punxsutauney, 
Pennsylvania, under the charter and name of The Savings & Trust Company 
o f Indiana. As an incident to the merger, the office of Farmers' & 
Vfi 
ners* Trust Company xjould become a branch of the resulting bank. 
^°tice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been 
P u bHshed pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
tl*e factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
CocnPtroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

1 4 7 
- 2 -
£nd the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT 13 HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
i s approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(3) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 16th day of January, 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
Daane, Maisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Brimmer. 
/signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 4 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE SAVINGS & TRUST COMPANY OF INDIANA 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
FARMERS' & MINERS' TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
The Savings & Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, Pennsylvania 
("Indiana Bank"), with total deposits of about $30 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Mercer Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank with Farmers' & Miners' Trust 
-ompany, Punxsutawney, Pennsylvania ("Punxsutawney Bank"), which has 
total deposits of about $20 million.-^ The banks would merge under the 
charter and name of Indiana Bank, which is a member of the Federal 
Reserve System. As an incident thereto, the sole office of Punxsutauney 
Bank would become a branch of Indiana Bank, increasing the number of 
its offices to four. 
Competition. - Indiana Bank has its main office and a suburban 
branch in Indiana. It also operates a branch in Saltsburg, 21 miles 
southwest of Indiana. Indiana Bank's main office is 28 miles south of 
Punxsutawney Bank and is its nearest office to Punxsutauney Bank. 
y Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 

- 2 -
16 
The areas served by the tuo banks do not overlap, and there 
is no meaningful competition between them. Approximately 1 per cent 
of Indiana Bank's deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corpora-
tions ("IPC deposits") and about 1 per cent of its loans originate in 
the area served by Punxsutax/ney Bank, and about 2 per cent of 
Punxcutawney Bank's IPC deposits and 3 per cent of its loans originate 
in the area served by Indiana Bank. Pennsylvania laws permit banks to 
branch cte novo in their home counties and in contiguous counties. 
Consequently, there is some potential for the development of increased 
competition between the proponent banks. This would be eliminated by 
the metier. However, it does not appear likely that do novo offices 
^ould be established in the foreseeable future because of the present 
sufficiency of banking offices in the areas in relation to the number 
industries and inhabitants of the respective communities. 
Punr.sutawney Bank's main competitor is a considerably larger 
bank headquartered in Punxsutawnoy that controls an additional 
^ million in deposits. There are five banks located at a distance of 
six miles or more which also compete but to a lesser extent. 
punxsutawney Bank holds approximately 17 per cent of the total deposits 
£°r the area it serves. 
Two banks in addition to Indiana Bank are headquartered in 
Indiana. Their total deposits are approximately $23 million and 
million, respectively, A bank located six miles south operates a 

1 5 0 
o 
- «5~ 
branch in Indiana with total deposits of about $15 million. Indiana 
Bank competes with eight other banks in the area and holds approximately 
per cent of the area's total deposits, 
Within the combined areas served by the proponent banks, 
Punxsutawney Bank is seventh largest, controls 5.8 per cent of the 
deposits and 3.4 per cent of the loans, and Indiana Bank ranks third 
^ith S.7 per cent of the deposits and 10 per cent of the loans. If the 
Proposed merger were consummated, the resulting bank would be the 
second largest bank in the combined areas now served by the two banks. 
The effect of the merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
inking fac tors with respect to Indiana Bank and Punxsutawney Bank are 
Qatisfactory, and this would be true also with respect to the resulting 
bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The replacement 
Punxsutawney Bank by an office of Indiana Bank would result in an 
improvement in the quality of banking services available in the 
Punxsutawney area and thereby increase competition. The conveniences 
the public would be served through the broader banking services 
X;hich would be available at the Punxsutawney office of the resulting 
bank, in addition, the proposal would furnish needed depth to manage-
ment which would also benefit the community. Considerations under 
tuis factor lend some support to approval of the application. 

1 5 1 
- 4 -
Summcry and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
benefits of the proposed merger to the banking convenience and needs 
of the area served by Punxsutauney Bank would offset the slightly 
adverse effect on banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
January 16, 1970. 

1 5 2 
Item No. 4 
1/16/70 
TITLE 12*--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RES2RVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. Q] 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
1. Effective January 16, 1970, section 217.3(g) is amended to 
read as follows: 
(8 ) Tine deposits of foreign governmental entities and 
international organizations. Section 217.7 does not apply to the rate 
interest that may be paid by a member bank on a time deposit having 
a Maturity of two years or less and representing funds deposited and 
°Wned by (1) a foreign national government, or an agency or instru-
ten.- 
W 
-lLajity thereof 
engaged principally in activities which are 
inarily performed in the United States by governmental entities, 
O n } a n international entity of which the United States is a member, or 
i any other foreign, international, or supranational entity specifi-
CctHy designated by the Board as exempt from § 217.7, All certificates 
Of d 
oposit issued by member banks to such entitles on which the contract 
a t e of interest exceeds the maximum prescribed under § 217.7 shall 
Provide that (1) in the event of transfer, the date of transfer, attested 
in writing by the transferor, shall appear on the certificate, and 
the maximum rate limitations of § 217.7 in effect at the date of 
S S U a n c e °f the certificate shall apply to the certificate for any period 
Oily. 1 S which it Is held by a person other than an entity exempt therefrom 
5a/ O f , 
gov 
r than States, provinces, municipalities or other regional or local 
evnmental units, or agencies or instrumentalities thereof. 

1 5 3 
- 2 -
, * 
y 
under the foregoing sentence. 
Upon the presentment of such a certificate 
payment, the bank may pay the holder the contract rate of interest on 
^ e deposit for the time that the certificate was actually owned by an 
entity so exempt. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to make clear that only 
*°reign national governments and agencies thereof with national jurisdiction 
a r e covered by § .117.3(g)(1). 
b. The procedures of section 553(b) Title 5, United States Code, 
with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effective date 
Wete not followed because this amendment is of a clarifying nature implc— 
Anting the basic purpose underlying the amendments to § 217.3(g) adopted 
ef f 
active November 5, 1969. Ir» these circumstances, the Board found such 
^r°cedures to be contrary to the public interest. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 16, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
6/ * 
n e w certificate not maturing prior to the maturity date of the original 
ev ^ficate may be issued by the member bank to the trar.sferee, in which 
p 
the original must be retained bv the bank. The n?w certificate may not 
for interest after the date of transfer at a rate in excess of the 
icable maximum rate authorized by § 217.7 as of the date of issuance of 
°riginal certificate. 

1 5 4 
Item No. 5 
1/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TEE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, Df C, 
l n the Matter of the Applications of 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
g^suant to section 3 of the Bank 
i a i nS Company Act of 1956 
ORDER FOR PUBLIC PROCEEDING 
The Board of Governors has pending before it, pursuant to 
°Gctxon 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act cf 1956, applications 
Ued by Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a 
^iscered bank holding company, for prior approval by the Board of 
• PHcant 's acquisition of voting shares oi: three banks in the State of 
The. banks are The First National Bank of St. Petersburg, The 
pt 
National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, and The Harbor City National 
Batlk °f Eau Gal lie. 
The Board has ordered a public oral presentation of views on 
0rie as Pect of these applications, namely, the extent, if any, to which 
^he q i 
a r t e r Company, Jacksonville, Florida, exercises, or is capable of 
^ g , control over Charter Bankshares Corporation, or exercises in-
with respect to Charter Bankshares1 management and/or operations. 

1 5 5 
- 2 -
I * * * * \ 
' 
Accordingly, IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that a public proceeding 
b e held before thz Board commencing at 2:30 p.m.. on February 17, 1970, 
Room 120? of the Federal Reserve Building, Washington, D. C,, and 
th<it documentary evidence and oral testimony with respect to the issues 
aoove stated be received from certain present and former officers and 
directors of The Charter Company and Charter Bankshares and from such 
° t h e r Persona as the Board may find appropriate, 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 19th day of January 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
•'V; - • t" •< 1 
(Signe.i) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 5 6 
B D A R D DF G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 6 
1/16/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 19, 1970. 
Hugh I!. Gains ha, Jr., 
Chairman, Committee on Management 
and Personnel of the Conference 
Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Bear Mr. Galusha: 
In response to your letter to Governor Slier rill of 
January 9, 1970, I am pleased to advise that the Board has 
designated Thomas J. O'Connell as Associate Member of the 
Subcommittee of Counsel that will advise on matters involvin; 
unionization. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. I'.enyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
