Minutes for 
November 25, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

405( 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 25, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assis tant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
International financial developments. 
Chairman Martin reported 
to the Board on international financial developments over the past two 
weeks. He noted the massive speculative drains of funds from France 
and Britain into Germany that had led to the calling of a special 
meeting of the Group of Ten in Bonn. He had attended some of the 
sessions of that group along with Secretary of the Treasury Fowler. 
After extended discussions, Chairman Martin said, understand-
ings had been reached at that meeting as to various measures that might 

4057 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-2-
be taken to moderate the capital flows and on a credit package that 
might be made available to France to assist that country in weathering 
the current foreign exchange pressures. 
The Chairman also reviewed the 
subsequent decision by President de Gaulle to hold the present exchange 
parity of the franc and to adopt alternative restrictive measures to 
curtail speculative capital outflows and foster an improvement in the 
basic French balance of payments. 
Governor Daane then reported on the general tenor of the dis-
cussions concerning foreign exchange pressures that had taken place 
the preceding weekend at the regularly scheduled monthly BIS meeting 
of central bankers in Basle. 
The following then entered the meeting: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Williams, Sigel, Wernick, Eckert, 
Keir, Baker, Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, Kichline, 
Stone, Taylor, Trueblood, Wetzel, and Zeisel 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Irvine, Wood, Bryant, Emery, 
Gemmill, Karcz, Maroni, Pizer, and Promise1, 
and Mrs. MacDonald of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
impact on various countries and on the U.S. international payments 

4058 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-3-
position of recent developments related to the French financial crisis, 
along with trends in domestic business and financial conditions, the 
* 
reports being based to some extent on materials that had been distrib-
uted in preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Copi es of the relevant documentation have been placed in 
the Committee's files. 
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and Partee withdrew from 
the meeting, as did Messrs. Sherman, Coyne, Broida, and Bernard, and 
the following entered: 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Heyde, Lipkowitz, Mertz, Noble, Plotkin, 
and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Mes srs. Ducy, Lawrence, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Guth, and Maurer of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at a meeting of the 
available members of the Board on Friday, November 22, 1968, as 
recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous 
vote. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Peoples National Bank 

4059 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-4-
of Conway, Conway, South Carolina, into The Citizens and Southern 
National Bank of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, was 
approved for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The 
conclusion read as follows: 
There is virtually no existing competition between 
The Citizens and Southern National Bank of South Carolina, 
Charleston, and The Peoples National Bank of Conway. How-
ever, potential for competition between the two banks 
through de novo branching would be eliminated. 
Consummation of the proposed merger would expand 
the geographical coverage of Citizens and Southern into 
an additional county, eliminate the largest bank head-
quartered in Horry County, and increase the concentra-
tion of banking resources in the State's second largest 
bank. The overall competitive effect of the proposed 
merger would be adverse. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the effect of the 
transaction on competition should be cited as no more than slightly 
adverse. He felt that the State of South Carolina would be better 
served by a smaller number of stronger banks. 
Application of Middle Tennessee Bank (Items 1 and 2). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on November 4, 1968, of the application of The Middle 
Tennessee Bank, Columbia, Tennessee, to acquire the assets and assume 
the deposit liabilities of The Hampshire Bank, Hampshire, Tennessee. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Merrill Bankshares (Items 3 and 4). .There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 

4060 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-5-
approval on October 31, 1968, of the application of Merrill Bankshares 
Company, Bangor, Maine, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Merrill 
Trust Company, Bangor, and Washburn Trust Company, Washburn, Maine. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Applications of Chemical (Items 5-7). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated November 15, 1968, from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Legal Division and related material 
regarding the application of Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, New 
York, New York, to merge with Chemical Bank, a newly-organized bank 
not yet in operation, and the application of Chemical Bank for member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
The proposed merger was one step 
in a plan of corporate reorganization designed to bring Chemical New 
York Corporation, a newly-organized Delaware corporation, into being 
as a one-bank holding company. Attached to the memorandum were drafts 
of an order and statement that would reflect approval of the applica-
tion to merge. 
The memorandum pointed out that because of certain legal 
procedures the New York State Banking Department could not officially 
act on the merger application until after mid-December. However, the 
Superintendent of Banks had certified by letter that he would recom-
mend approval of the proposed merger. If the Board did not .act until 

40 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-6-
it had been notified of the State's official approval, the bank would 
not be able to consummate the proposed reorganization until after the 
« 
first of the year because of the required 30-day waiting period follow-
ing agency approval. Accordingly, the staff recommended that the order 
and statement be issued on November 29, 1968, by which time statutory 
publication requirements would have been completed. 
Governor Brimmer noted the risk that word might reach the 
applicant prematurely if the Board acted on the application at this 
time. In addition, staff indicated that the Board's action with 
respect to the application for membership would have a bearing on the 
chartering of Chemical Bank by the State Superintendent. 
Consequently 
the State Superintendent was seeking information in that regard. Gov-
ernor Robertson then suggested that the matter be discussed with the 
State Superintendent in terms of the likelihood of Board approval 
rather than the Board had in fact taken action. 
The merger and membership applications were then approved 
unanimously. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized, 
with the understanding that they would not be released until November 29, 
1968. Copies of the documents, as subsequently issued, are attached as 
Items 5 and 6. A copy of the letter to Chemical Bank approving its 
application for membership in the Federal Reserve System is attached 
as Item No. 7. 
Application for System membership. 
There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 

4062 
11/25/68 
-7-
November 7, 1968, regarding the application of First Commercial Bank, 
Campton, Kentucky, for admission to membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. For reasons set forth in the memorandum, principally manage-
ment factors, the Division recommended that the application be denied. 
The Divis ion suggested, however, that applicant be given an opportunity 
to withdraw the application. 
Following discussion it was agreed that applicant would be given 
an opportunity to withdraw the application and that, if the application 
was not withdrawn, it would be denied. 
Secretary's Note: The application 
was subsequently withdrawn. 
Application of Depositors Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated November 7, 1968, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine, for permission 
to acquire at least 51 per cent of the voting shares of The First 
National Bank of Fort Fairfield, Fort Fairfield, Maine. The staff 
and Reserve Bank recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an appropriate order and statement would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Proposed revocation of permission to carry reduced reserves. 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations dated November 13, 1968, relating to the 

4 0 6 3 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-8-
recommendation of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland that the per-
mission to carry reduced reserves granted to The Capital National Bank, 
Cleveland, Ohio, be revoked. The recommendation of the Reserve Bank 
resulted from its annual review of banks having permission to carry 
reduced reserves and was based, among other factors, on relocation of 
the member bank's main office to the heart of the financial district, 
the bank's success in active competition with the major Cleveland 
banks, and the significant demand deposit increase during the last 
four years to a total of $26 million. 
On the basis of information available, the Division did not 
feel that revocation of permission to carry reduced reserves was 
warranted at this time. Accordingly, the Division suggested that the 
Reserve Bank be 
requested to reconsider the status of the member bank 
at the time of its next annual review, and in the meantime inform the 
member bank that continuation of its trend toward money market activi-
ties might result in higher reserve requirements. A proposed letter 
to the Reserve Bank along these lines was attached. 
In the course of discussion Mr. Farrell noted that in consid-
eration of recent Los Angeles cases $100 million had been used as a 
benchmark. However, such a cut-off point was not nationwide. 
Rather, 
there had been a tendency to determine ranges in relationship to other 
banks in the same city. 
There was general agreement with the recommendation'of the 
Division that the permission granted Capital National Bank to carry 

4064 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-9-
reduced reserves should not be revoked at this time. It was suggested, 
however, that the Reserve Bank should be given guidelines to use in 
discussion with the member bank as to the point at which higher reserve 
requirements might be imposed. Mr. Farrell indicated that the Division 
itself felt uncertain and would appreciate guidance on the subject. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the Division would prepare 
a memorandum on the subject of guidelines for reduced reserves with a 
view to further consideration of the matter by the Board at a subsequent 
meeting. 
Survey of trust department assets of State member banks (Item 
No. 8). There had been distributed a memorandum dated November 6, 
1968, from the Divisions of Supervision and Regulation and Research 
and Statistics recommending that a survey of trust department assets 
of State member banks for 1968 be made and that the results be reviewed 
to determine the desirability of collecting data periodically in the 
future. The memorandum noted, among other points, that there was a 
nationwide interest in the subject and that the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would collect 
similar data for all other insured banks. Attached to the memorandum 
were a draft report form and related instructions. 
Mr. Leavitt said it was now proposed to send the form out from 
the Reserve Banks over the signatures of the Bank Presidents rather 
than over the signature of Chairman Martin (as had originaliy been 

4065 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-10-
suggested). Mr. Partee indicated that he was doubtful whether the 
survey would produce very useful results because of the variety of 
dates the banks would be allowed to use in reporting market values. 
Nevertheless, because of the wide interest in such data, he would 
recommend that the survey be undertaken. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view, with which Governor 
Robertson agreed, that information on holdings by a bank's trust 
department of the bank's own stock would be useful. He asked how 
much of a burden would be imposed if the form were expanded to provide 
such information. Mr. Partee noted that the question was a sensitive 
one, and Mr. Leavitt brought out that these data would normally be 
contained in examination reports of the individual banks. He doubted 
that the other agencies would go along. 
It was his impression that 
they had already started mailing their letters, and a change in the 
Board's questionnaire at this time would result in obtaining the 
information from only one segment of banks. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the conducting of the 
survey, subject to clearance with the Budget Bureau. A copy of the 
let ter subsequently sent to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks is attached as Item No. 8. 
Applicability of section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933. 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated November 13, 1968, from the 
Legal Division relating to a request from CNA Financial Corporation, 

4066 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-11-
Chicago, Illinois, for a determination whether it was "primarily" 
engaged in any securities activities specified in section 32 of the 
t 
Banking Act of 1933 so as to make its directors ineligible to serve 
also as officers, directors, or employees of member banks. 
A draft letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, through 
which Bank the request had been transmitted, would note that CNA was 
a holding company whose subsidiaries, although primarily engaged in 
insurance and finance business, also did a certain amount of section 32 
business, such as the sale and distribution of mutual funds and vari-
able annuities. However, the section 32 activities of the subsidiaries 
appeared at present to be relatively insignificant in relation to the 
other business of CNA. Accordingly, viewing CNA and its subsidiaries 
as a single entity, it was felt that CNA need not at present be 
regarded as being primarily engaged in activities described in sec-
tion 32. However, the letter would state that in making this deter-
mination the Board had not reached the question whether the operations 
of the Tsai subsidiaries, which among other interests acted as invest-
ment advisers and distributors for open- and closed-end investment 
companies, should be separated from the operations of the CNA group in 
determining the applicability of section 32. The letter would suggest 
that the Reserve Bank ask CNA to discuss its operations with the 
Reserve Bank at least annually since it might be expected that the 
amount of section 32 business of CNA would increase significantly in 
the future. 

kv 
••j>. • 
1 1 / 2 5 / 6 8 
-12-
Governor Maisel raised a series of questions about the opera-
tions of the Tsai subsidiaries and how those operations should be 
• 
appraised in terms of relationship 
to the holding company structure 
and the requirements of the statute. Mr. Plotkin stated that the Legal 
Division lacked data on some of these points, and Governor Robertson 
expressed the view that additional information should be available 
before the Board reached a decision. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the Legal Division would 
develop additional information with respect to the Tsai subsidiaries 
and that the matter would be brought back for Board consideration at 
a subsequent meeting. 
Conference of Business Economists. A memorandum dated Novem-
ber 20, 1968, from Mr. Brill presented the proposal of the Conference 
of Business Economists that a meeting be arranged with the Board on 
Friday morning, February 14, 1969, for the purpose of discussing the 
unfolding economic situation. 
It was understood that the meeting would be arranged. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

4068 
v 
Item No. 1 
11/25/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
i 
the Matter of the Application of 
' 
i 
^ E MIDDLE TENNESSEE BANK 
1 
approval of acquisition of assets of ' 
e Hampshire Bank 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.C.C. lC2G(c)), an application by The Iliddle Tennessee 
Columbia, Tennessee, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
Astern, for the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets and 
• • • '• 
^sumption of deposit liabilities of The Hampshire Bank, Hampshire, 
» 
• 
Ten 
lessee, and, as an incident thereto, The Middle Tennessee Bank has 
applledf under section € of tjhfe Federal Reserve ^Ct, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the establishaent by that bank of a branch at the location of 
sole office of The Hampshire Bank. Notice of the proposed acquisition 
of * 
assets and assumption of deposit liabilities, in form approved by the 
Bo a rd, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
• w 

4069 
-2-
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
C°fiptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Pr°Posed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
BqSt'.J | 
s Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby 
aPproved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption 
f deposit li ibilities and establishment of the branch shall not be 
uramated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this n , 
urder or (b) later then three months after the date of this Order 
l e s s S u c h period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Urshington, D.C., this 25th day of November, 1SCG. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(.v..e \) 
Llobert P. Torres tr. 1 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4070 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
11/25/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE MIDDLE TENNESSEE BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
THE HAMPSHIRE BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Middle Tennessee Bank, Columbia, Tennessee ("Middle Bank"), 
deposits of about $1G million, has applied, pursuant to the 
n c Merger Act (12 U.3.C. 1820(c)), for the Board's approval of its 
quisiti0n of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of The Hampshire 
' HamPshire, Tennessee ("Hampshire Bank"), which has total deposits of 
$Oqr» 
1/ 
thousand.- 
Ac an incident to the transaction, the sole office 
of Ha 
mPshire Bank would become a branch of Middle Bank, increasing the 
o r its offices to five. 
Competition. - Middle Bank operates three branches, as well 
3s its 
m ain office, in Columbia, the seat of Maury County in the central 
Part o f 
the State. The city and county have populations of about 18,000 
*ncl 
o °> respectively. 
The economy of the area is agricultural and 
fSgtti "ith the latter becoming increasingly important. Hampshire 
Slnsle office is the only bank in Hampshire, which is also located 
IlQury rn 
ounty, 15 miles west of Columbia. Hampshire, with a popylation 
U r e s are as of June 29, I960. • 

4071 
-2-
of about 200, serves a trade area that is principally agricultural. 
For 
years, that area's population (approximately 2,500) has not changed 
ubstantially, although it is now reported as decreasing. 
Hampshire Bank's service area comprises Hampshire and its 
Mediate environs, and its principal competition is provided by banking 
e s in lit. Pleasant, Tennessee, approximately seven miles southeast 
of J. 
mPshire and 10 miles southwest of Columbia. 
Middle Bank competes to some degree in all of liaury County. 
however 
i 
> although there are no banking offices along the direct route from 
Col.UmK, 
a to Hampshire, Middle 
Bank has not been an active competitor in 
He 
mPshire and Mt. Pleasant communities. 
It is estimated that less 
^an 2 
Per cent of Middle Bank's deposits originate in the service area 
" Pshire Bank and a similarly small percentage of its loans originate 
* th*t ar e a. 
Of the four banks operating in Columbia, Middle Bank is 
ec°nd largest, and this ranking would not be changed by the proposal. 
6 la 
rSest bank in Columbia has deposits of about $19 million. 
The 
ird laro 
gest banking office in Columbia, with deposits of about $15 million, 
a 
anch of a Nashville bank, with deposits of over $200 million. 
The 
81 N 
°nal Bank of Mt. Pleasant, with about $7 million of deposits, 
8° o Plates an office in Columbia. 
The competition existing between Middle Bank and Hampshire 
k c Q n 
ot be regarded as significant. 
Furthermore, because of the 

4072 
n a t U r e o f the community in x;hich Hampshire Bank operates, thd limited 
kankin 
"8 services it offers, its small size, and its unsatisfactory condi-
lon (as noted below), the Board believes that the possibility of meaningful 
potential competition between the banks is remote. Indeed, a likely effect 
Of (-1 
e transaction would be the enhancement of competition in the Hampshire 
> Without appreciable adverse effects on any other banking institution. 
A substantial, although not controlling, percentage of the 
°UtstanH* 
i a i n8 stock of Hampshire Bank has been owned since 1265 
by a n 
n officer of Middle Ban!:. Recently, that officer acquired additional 
StOcfc of TI 
r Hampshire Ban!:, giving him almost 100 per cent ownership of its 
stock. 
b 
Qnd 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
nS factors with respect to Iliddle Bank are reasonably satisfactory 
° U l d r e main so after the proposed acquisition. Future prospects 
Hiddl e Bflnlc and the Columbia area are good. 
the 
a 
Hampshire Ban!: has had a serious management problem since 
Capacitating illness of its chief executive officer in 1965, and 
result, the Bank's general condition is unsatisfactory. 
The Bank 
aPpare 
y has been unable to improve its condition, and its prospects 
^8 
dependent unit bank are not good. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The transaction 
V d 
* 
b Ha 
effect banking convenience and needs principally in the area served 
mPshi r e Bank. 
In view of the condition of Hampshire Bank, its 

4073 
-2-
c°ntinued existence as an independent institution is in jeopardy. 
C°nsummation of the proposal, therefore, would assure the continued 
- -
Essence of a banking office in the community of Hampshire. 
This banking 
0 f f i ce, significantly, uould provide the area with a substantially larger 
limit and an expansion of loan services. Other improved services 
ttlQt l70uld be brought to the area by lliddle Ban!: include aggressive 
0c®iunity development work and trust department cervices, which are not 
7 available in the Hampshire area. 
Summary and conclusion. - Since the proposed transaction 
W0uld nnt- U 
not have materially adverse competitive consequences but, instead, 
t o enhance banking competition in the Hampshire area as well as 
icantly improve banking services, the Board has concluded that the 
appi J 
Nation should be aonroved. 
Wov 'ember a 5 > 
1 9 6 0 -

Item No. 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
11/25/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C 0 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MERRILL BANKSHARES COMPANY, 
Bangor, Maine, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
o f up to 100 per cent of the voting 
shares of The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, 
Maine, and Washburn Trust Company, 
Washburn, Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Re8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Merrill Bankshares 
Company, Bangor, Maine, for the Board's prior approval of action 
hereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
accluisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Merrill 
Trust Company, Bangor, Maine, and Washburn Trust Company, Washburn, 
Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the office of the 

Bank Commissioner for the State of Maine y and requested views and 
recommendation thereon. The office of the Bank Cbmmissioner stated 
fchat it had ho objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 27, 1968 (33 Federal Register 10768), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 25th day of November, 1968 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
11/25/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MERRILL BANKSHARES COMPANY, BANGOR, MAINE, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
t o become a bank holding company through the acquisition of up to 
100 p c r c e n t 0 f th e voting shares of The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine ("Merrill Trust"), and Washburn Trust Company, 
Washburn, Maine ("Washburn Trust"). 
The main office of Merrill Trust (deposits $72.2 million) 
i s located 180 miles from the main office of Washburn Trust (deposits 
$6 7 
y 
• million). 
xhe offices of the two banks nearest each other are 
110 miles apart. Merrill Trust presently operates 18 offices, and 
Washburn Trust operates two offices. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
i n All banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 

application w^U given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
the Office of the Bank Commissioner for the State of Maine. The 
office of the Bank Commissioner replied that it had no objection to 
the proposal. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
he substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
ition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of 
6 community to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
l n t 0 consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Merrill Trust 
operates 18 banking offices in five of Maine's 16 counties. Its 
m a i n office and five branch offices are located in Penobscot County, 
a n d those offices constitute about 27 per cent of the 22 banking 

4078 
-3-
, 
I 
offices located there and hold about 40 per cent of the total County 
deposits."" 
Merrill Trust holds about 26 per cent of aggregate deposits 
in the other four counties in which it has offices, 
% 
Washburn Trust operates two banking offices and holds about 
7 Per cent of total deposits in Aroostook County, in which six other 
banks operate 18 offices. Northern National Bank, Presque Isle, is the 
largest bank in the County, operating 10 offices and holding about 54 per 
Cent of total County deposits. 
The offices of Merrill Trust and Washburn Trust located 
nearest each other are separated by a distance of about 110 miles, and 
there appears to be no competition existing between the two banks. Under 
State law, Merrill Trust could establish branch offices in the area 
Served by Washburn Trust, except in the town of Washburn (population 2000). 
I n view, however, of the distance of Merrill Trust's present offices 
fr°ra the Washburn area, and the rural and sparsely populated character 
°f the Washburn area, it is unlikely that Merrill Trust would establish 
°ffices in that area in the foreseeable future. Thus, the possibility 
that potential competition between the two banks would be foreclosed by 
th 
6 holding company formation is remote. 
It does not appear that formation of the proposed holding 
Cot*ipany would adversely affect competition with other banking institutions. 
D 
er> since Washburn Trust's two major competitors are larger banks, the 
June 30, 1966. 

4079 
Proposed affiliation with Merrill Trust may strengthen Washburn Trust's 
competitive ability in Aroostook County, The competitive position of 
Merrill Trust within the areas of its present operations would not 
appear to be significantly affected. 
The transaction would not affect concentration levels in the 
seParate areas served by Merrill Trust and Washburn Trust, and would 
ri°t unduly increase the concentration of banking resources in the State 
o f Maine0 The State's 10 largest banking organisations hold approxi-
mately 73 per cent of aggregate deposits held by 41 insured commercial 
banks in the State. Merrill Trust presently is the fifth largest bank-
ifi8 organization in the State, holding about 7.3 per cent of total 
deposits; approval of the application will result in the Applicant 
^coming the fourth largest banking organization in the State, holding 
ab°ut 3.0 per cent of total deposits. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the appli-
Cation and consummation of the proposal would not substantially lessen 
c°mpetition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
o f the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant is a newly-formed corporation and has no financial or 
°Perating history. Its financial condition, managerial 
and pr( 
bank3. 
resources 
a n d Prospects would be entirely dependent upon those of its subsidiary 

4080 
the financial condition, managerial resources, and prospects 
°f both Merrill Trust and Washburn Trust are reasonably satisfactory; 
therefore, considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Formation 
the holding company will have little effect on the banking convenience 
and needs of the communities served by Merrill Trust. The affiliation of 
Merrill Trust and Washburn Trust should, however, enhance the services 
and efficiency of the latter bank. The banking needs of individuals and 
businesses in the Washburn area are being served by several commercial 
banks in addition to Washburn Trust. The effect of the affiliation will 
thus be to provide those individuals and businesses with a convenient, 
alternative source of full banking services. Applicant proposes to pro-
v i de Washburn Trust with investment advice, loan participations, employee 
training, instalment credit systems, legal services, and computer services. 
Considerations under this factor provide some weight toward 
aPproval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in sec-
3(c) 
of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
acti0n W o ui d b e i n t h e pUbi£C interest and that the application should 
b e approved. 
Member 25, 1968. 

4 0 8 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 5 
11/25/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
CHEMICAL BANK NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY 
f 
for approval of merger with 
1 
Chemical Bank 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Chemical Bank 
New York Trust Company, New York, New York, a State member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of 
that bank with Chemical Bank, New York, New York, under the charter and 
title of Chemical Bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved 
ky the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act, 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
atld the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Pr°POsed merger, 

. 4082 
- 2 -
_ 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of November, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
(SEAL) 

4083 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
OF THE 
11/25/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY CHEMICAL BANK NEW YORK TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
CHEMICAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, New York, New York 
("Applicant"), with total deposits of $5.6 billion, has applied, pursuant 
t o the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
o f the merger of that bank with Chemical Bank, New York, New York 
("Chemical Bank"), which is a newly organized bank, not yet in operation, 
^he banks would merge under the charter and name of Chemical Bank, which 
a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
The proposed merger is one step in a plan of corporate reorgani-
sation whereby Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, a newly 
0rganized Delaware corporation, would become a one-bank holding company. 
Chemical New York Corporation presently owns all of the stock of Chemical 
®ank; upon the merger of Applicant with Chemical Bank, stock of Chemical 
York Corporation will be exchanged for the stock of Applicant. 
The major purpose for the use of a merger transaction in 
APPHcant's plan to form a one-bank holding company Is to assure that 
C^emical New York Corporation will be able to acquire, except for direc-
tors' qualifying shares, all of the outstanding stock of the banking 
aubsldiary. 

Statutory considerations, - From the record before the Board, 
the proposed merger of Applicant and Chemical Bank - the latter being 
a bank with no operating history, formed solely to facilitate the cor-
porate reorganization plan described above - would itself have no effect 
either competition or the banking convenience and needs of any rele-
vant area. Nor would it appear that the proposal would have any adverse 
consequences relative to the financial and managerial resources and 
Prospects of Applicant or Chemical Bank. 
In the Board's view, it could not, under present law, refuse 
to 
approve a merger application solely on the ground that the merger is 
0tle step in the formation of a one-bank holding company. 
Accordingly, and in light of all of the standards set forth 
l n the Bank Merger Act, the Board concludes that the application should 
b e approved. 
N°vember 29, 1968, 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
11/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q T H E 
B D A R D 
November 29, 1968. 
Organization Committee, 
Chemical Bank, 
New York, New York 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
tlie application made on behalf of Chemical Bank, New York, New York, 
stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, subject to the num-
ered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate powers. 
th 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
at Chemical Bank shall not conduct a banking business with the public 
^ 
11 it has merged with Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, New York, 
ev York. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
ticular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
R a t i o n H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
federal Reserve System, with special reference to Section 208.7 
ereof. 
a copy of the Regulation is enclosed. 

TO: Organization Committee 
- 
2 
-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
Directors of Chemical Bank. A certified copy of such resolution, and 
a certified copy of the resolution of said Board of Directors ratifying 
Chemical Bank's application for membership in the Federal Reserve System, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The time with in which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
a H of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
oard will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

4087 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
11/25/68 
lu ordur 
ob 
CQ '"hi. J 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C IAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
December 5, 1968. 
•':*.<! v.fL.lC 
\ i >>,! .< J j •_] ^ • • , .. 
' : •'i.l-.'/a 
1 i il. 
Joi-..: , 
\ I V< -ivai U < • for .-jc-viy 
f.'i ] ^ 
•VlW*. 
Dear Sir: 
In ord er to obtain current information on trust assets 
handled by member State banks, the Board has approved a report 
form to be completed by each such bank for the year 1968. A 
sufficient number of copies of this form and related instructions 
for distribution to member State banks in your District will be 
sent to you shortly, under separate cover. 
It will be appreciated if you would send three copies 
of the report form and one copy of the instructions to each 
member State bank with a trust department in your District. A 
suggested transmittal letter is enclosed which you may wish to 
use for this purpose. For control purposes, a list of all such 
banks should be sent to the Board's Division of Supervision and 
Regulation. 
After you have edited the completed report, please 
forward one copy to that Division for further processing. 
Editing should include a determination that the reported 
information appears reasonable and is internally consistent. 
Very truly yours, 
Encl osure 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
T 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

4088 
TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE BANK ADDRESSED: 
In order to obtain current information on trust assets 
handled by member State banks, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System has prepared a report form which each 
such bank is being asked to complete. Copies of the report and 
related instructions are enclosed. 
It will be appreciated if 
the report form, for the year 1968, could be completed and two 
copies returned to this Bank, not later than March 1, 1969. 
Similar trust asset information is being collected 
from other insured banks by the Comptroller of the Currency and 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
In this way, it is 
expected that compatible aggregate trust data for all insured 
banks will be available for study and possible publication. 
Your cooperation in this matter is appreciated. 
Enclosures 
