MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 5, 1970 

i 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 5, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
The staff presented a money market review in the usual weekly 
format. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for the 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Staff members who had attended the meeting for the review then 
withdrew and the following entered: 
_!/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1/5/70 
-2-
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and Assistant 
Secretary-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel; Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General 
Counsel; and Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Miss Hart, and Mr. Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on December 23, by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York and Kansas City on December 30, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia on December 31, 1969, and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco on January 2, 1970, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unan-
imously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
The following items were approved unanimously after consideration 
of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First Manassas Bank and Trust Company, 
1 
Manassas, Virginia, approving its application for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
2 
New York, New York, regarding the bank's intention to 
establish an additional branch in Puerto Rico. 
Telegram to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks 
3 
regarding procedures for distributing Special Drawing 
Right Certificates among the Federal Reserve Banks. 

1/5/70 
-3-
In connection with Item No. 2, it was understood that the 
applicant bank's notice of intent would be accepted and acknowledged 
in the usual manner if the Secretary of the Treasury of Puerto Rico 
interposed no objection. 
Report on competitive factors. A report was approved for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency regarding the competi-
tive factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National 
Bank of Harrisonburg, Harrisonburg, Virginia, into Virginia National 
Bank, Norfolk, Virginia. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger would eliminate a 
small amount of competition existing between the Elkton 
Branch of Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, and The First 
National Bank of Harrisonburg. 
The overall competitive 
effect would be slightly adverse. 
Governor Robertson expressed the opinion that the competitive 
effect would be adverse. 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending. 
The Board unanimously 
approved a proposal by Governor Robertson in a memorandum dated 
December 30, 1969, that all of the present 19 members of the Advisory 
Committee on Truth in Lending, whose terms expired on December 31, 
1969, be reappointed for an additional term to end June 30, 1970, 
after which Governor Robertson expected to propose that terms be 
staggered in order to retain experienced members and still bring in 
new members. 
(The position on the Committee of a 20th member had been 
vacant since he became a consultant to the Board in February 1969, and 

\ 
1/5/70 
-4-
Governor Robertson recommended that the position remain vacant during 
the first 6 months of 1970.) 
Annual Report on Truth in Lending. A report to the Congress 
had been drafted, to fulfill the requirements of the Truth in Lending 
A c t , regarding administration of the Board's functions under that 
Act in 1969. 
A desire was expressed for more time to study the report, and 
therefore, it was agreed to consider the matter further when there had 
been opportunity for such study. 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
The Board approved unanimously 
the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to 
acquire shares of First National Bank of Lake Wales, Lake Wales, 
Florida. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Peoples Trust of New Jersey. 
On December 15, 1969, the Board 
considered the application of Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, to merge Fort Lee Trust Company, Fort Lee, New Jersey. 
The Board's staff had recommended approval, while the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York had recommended denial. 
The staff was requested to 
develop additional information regarding dissension among stockholders 
of Fort Lee Trust Company and to draft an order and statement in 
terms of approval. 
The staff had complied with these requests in 
memoranda dated December 23 and 30. 

1/5/70 
-5-
Discussion reflected a desire to avoid the impression in a 
statement in support of approval that the Board had relied exclusively 
on the view of the State Bank Commissioner that the stockholder 
dissension and management problems of Fort Lee Trust Company could 
not be resolved except through merger, and that denial of this pro-
posed merger would make merger negotiations with other banks virtually 
impossible. 
Suggestions were made for appropriate changes in the 
language of the proposed statement, along with amplification of the 
statement to delineate the characteristics of the business of the 
Fort Lee bank. 
All members of the Board expressed themselves as favoring 
approval of the application except Governor Robertson, who noted that 
the New York Reserve Bank, which was familiar with the problem involved, 
had recommended denial. 
The Fort Lee institution appeared to be a good 
bank in a good location, and he believed there were other possible 
merger opportunities. 
He did not regard the stockholder dissension 
and management problems as sufficient to outweigh the adverse competi-
tive effect. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting. 
It was understood that the majority statement would be 
revised in the light of the discussion and would be considered further 
by the Board. 

1/5/70 
-6-
Bank reporting of purpose loans. 
In a memorandum dated 
December 17, 1969, the staff recommended a new system of bank report-
ing to provide more detail on loans to purchase and carry securities. 
A proposed reporting form was attached. 
While procedures being instituted by the New York Stock 
Exchange at the Board's request were expected largely to eliminate 
earlier inadequacies in data on security credit extended by brokers, 
statistics on security credit extended by banks remained unavailable 
in a form to be used with confidence. 
For reasons set forth in the 
memorandum, it was recommended (1) that all commercial banks, all 
savings banks, and all branches and agencies of foreign banks in the 
U.S. classified as "banks" by State law be required to complete a 
regulatory report on security loans on June 30, 1970, and each June 30 
thereafter; and (2) that those 100 commercial banks reporting the 
largest volume of security loans on the June 1969 call report be re-
quired to complete a similar regulatory report effective January 31, 
1971, and the last day of every month thereafter. 
Providing the re-
quired information would impose a considerable reporting burden. 
However, an effort had been made to reduce that burden, and it was 
believed that the need for information in making regulatory decisions 
justified the reporting system. 
Discussion indicated a predominant view among members of the 
Board that the reporting burden would be excessive. 
Suggestions for 

8 
1/5/70 
-7-
reducing the reporting burden included an exemption for banks that 
had total purpose loans no greater than a certain amount; a require-
ment of quarterly rather than monthly reports from banks having a 
large volume of purpose loans; and limiting to some number less than 
100 the banks that would be required to report monthly or quarterly. 
A minority view was expressed by Governor Brimmer, who accepted the 
staff position that the Board's regulatory responsibilities required 
a reporting system such as recommended. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the staff would explore the feasibility of the suggestions that had 
been made to reduce the reporting burden and submit revised recom-
mendations to the Board. 
Call for condition reports. 
Under the procedure prescribed 
by statute the close of business Wednesday, December 31, 1969, had 
been selected as the date for the fourth call for reports of condition 
to be made by insured banks within the calendar year 1969. 
The call 
was to be announced on Tuesday, January 6 , 1970. 
In accordance with the usual practice, a telegram had been 
sent to all Federal Reserve Banks on January 2 advising that a call 
for reports of condition by State member banks as of the close of 
business December 31 should be made at a specified time on forms 
furnished with the Board's letter of December 23, 1969. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 

8 
1/5/70 
-8-
Meeting with Conference of Business Economists. 
The Board 
unanimously approved the scheduling of a meeting of available members 
of the Board with the Conference of Business Economists on the after-
noon of February 12, 1970. . 
The meeting then adjourned. 
i. i I 
U ' • * ' L • - i 
: t W ' 
t it.' •• ... ' o" 
•t > 

9 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
1/5/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 5, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
First Manassas Bank and Trust Company, 
Manassas, Virginia. 
Gentlemen; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of First Manassas Bank and Trust Company, 
Manassas, Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate 
State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
set forth: 
1 0 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with doe regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
Ihe net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3 . At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $250,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $250,000. 

10 
First Manassas Bank and Trust Company 
- 2 -
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H , regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof, 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
It is noted that under its articles of incorporation the 
bank may exercise fiduciary powers but that it does not plan to 
exercise such powers at this time 6 
Should the bank at any future 
time desiie to exercise any powers not exercised at the time of 
admission to membership it will be necessary, under condition of 
membership numb-red 1, to obtain permission of the Board of Governors. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, 
together with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock no the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Feder-1 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank appxie* 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 

11 
First Manassas Bank and Trust Company 
-3-
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant,, The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours 3 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary,, 
Enclosure, 

.. V^OfCOi-^;. 
B O A R D 
G F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
D F THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No 
1/5/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
20DU1 
a d d h e s s orriciAt 
T O 1 H C 
B D A f l O 
January 5, 1970, 
rJ'he Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), 
One Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Cent1omen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 5, 1969. 
advising pursuant to the provisions or: Section 213.3(a) of 
Kegu1 ation M of your intention to establish an additional branch 
in Puerto Rieo to be located in Ponce. 
The Board of Governors desires ta receive the viev.s 
o {;
 t , i e Secretary of the Treasury of the Cccuuonwealth of Puerto 
Rico regarding establishment of the proposed branch. 
Accordingly, 
3 1 1 this instance, the Board has suspended the provisions of 
Section 213.3(a) 
of Regulation M relating to the establishment of 
additional branches a f t e r thirty days' notice to the Board. 
You 
w i l l be advised as to the B o a r d ' s action in due course. 
Very truly yoi.rs, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
I t e m 
N o 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
1/5/70 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 7, 1970 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDF.RAL RESERVE BANKS 
Treasury has advised Board that it will" probably issue 
Special Drawing Right Certificates in book-entry form 
during next statement week. 
Procedures for handling 
these transactions provide that the: certificates may 
be distributed among the Reserve Benks, and for this 
purpose Board has authorized distributions based on 
Federal Reserve note liabilities. 
Payment will be 
made to New York through Interdistrict Settlement: Fund. 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations will advise 
your Bank of the method of reporting on daily balance 
sheet and of related accountiag procedure. 
(signed) 
KENi'ON 
