MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 2, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 2, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Anderson, Project Representative 
Annex building. In a memorandum dated March 24, 1969, 
Mr. Shepardson reviewed factors that should be taken into account in 
any consideration of delay in the Board's annex building project. In 
summary, from the standpoint of cost and operating efficiency, he felt 
that the case was clear for moving ahead. On the other hand, the Board 
would have to consider whether it would be desirable to proceed with 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
the project at a time when the efforts of the Federal Reserve System 
were being directed toward curbing inflationary pressures in the 
economy. 
From a discussion of the matter at this meeting it developed 
that two members of the Board (Governors Brimmer and Sherrill) were 
inclined toward the view that the reasons in favor of moving ahead with 
the project were persuasive. The other members, while acknowledging 
the validity of those arguments, concluded that the economic situation, 
and especially the strategic role of the Board in the anti-inflationary 
effort, represented an overriding consideration. Accordingly, the 
consensus was that the annex building project should be held in abeyance. 
That decision having been reached, it was the unanimous view 
that the issuance of a press release would be desirable. However, the 
issuance of such a statement would be likely to raise questions with 
regard to the status of Federal Reserve Bank construction projects, some 
of which were in process. In the circumstances it was decided to withhold 
the press release until the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans had had an opportunity to review the situation in respect 
to the Federal Reserve Banks and could recommend to the Board the kind 
of overall policy that would seem appropriate. 
Reference was made to several steps that would have to be taken 
promptly in light of the decision on the annex building, and it was 
understood that those actions would be taken by Mr. Shepardson. There 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
were in addition certain somewhat longer-range problems that would 
have to be taken into account, such as provision of necessary office 
space and parking facilities, and Governor Sherrill indicated that a 
general plan would be developed for the Board's consideration. 
Messrs. Kelleher, Kakalec, Shepardson, and Anderson then 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Misses Ormsby and Wolcott of the Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Sette of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Bowman, Burton, Goodfellow, and Schober of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bilby, Consultant 
Th-s i 
-i i:"! ij . •. o. i:- ;u >. ic.f r " 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at the meeting of 
the available members of the Board on Friday, March 28, 1969, as 
recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous 
vote. 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Wachovia International 
1 
Investment Corporation, Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, extending the time 
within which to dispose of stock of 
Cayman Reef Development Company, Ltd., 
Cayman Islands. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
2 
New York approving the payment of salary 
to John T. Keane as Assistant Vice President 
at the Buffalo Branch at the rate fixed 
by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
3 
Minneapolis approving a revision of 
the employee salary structure for the 
head office and Helena Branch. 
Letter to Bank of America, New York, 
4 
New York, granting consent to the 
continued holding of shares of Banco 
Intercontinental Espanol, Madrid, 
Spain, if the latter should increase its 
outstanding debenture bonds. 
Central Banking System. The Board authorized issuance of 
orders and a statement reflecting approval on March 18, 1969, of 
applications by Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California, 
to acquire shares of Livermore National Bank, Livermore, California, 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
and Peninsula National Bank of Burlingame, Burlingame, California. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 5. 
Regulation Z. Under date of March 25, 1969, there had been 
distributed by the Division of Supervision and Regulation five proposed 
interpretations relating to provisions of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. 
After discussion the interpretations were approved unanimously 
for release to the press and publication in the Federal Register. Copies 
of the interpretations, as issued, are attached under Item No. 6. 
Review of operations in foreign currencies. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Molony dated March 26, 1969, to 
which was attached a review of open market operations in foreign 
currencies in 1968 prepared by the Special Manager of the System Open 
Market Account and proposed for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report 
for 1968. 
The review was approved for inclusion in the Annual Report. 
Redesign of discount mechanism. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated March 14, 1969, from the Office of the Secretary 
transmitting a report by the Steering Committee for the Fundamental 
Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism dated March 5, 1969, recommending 
certain changes in the proposal for redesign of the discount mechanism 
as published for comment in July 1968. Included as an appendix was a 
proposed revision of Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal 
Reserve Banks. 

ii 37 
4/2/69 
-6-
There had also been distributed a memorandum dated April 1, 
1969, from Governor Mitchell submitting (1) a statement discussing 
the general content and purposes of the revised Regulation A, proposed 
for publication with the latter in the Federal Register, and (2) a 
draft of press release focusing on the major changes from the earlier 
proposal. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the March 5 report had been 
accepted unanimously by the Steering Committee, which had taken into 
account comments from the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks as well as from the banking community and the general 
public. 
Governor Mitchell then commented briefly on the more important 
of the recommended revisions. The first reflected reconsideration 
of the earlier intention to establish the basic borrowing privilege 
as a fixed percentage of a bank's capital stock and surplus; it was 
now proposed that the base to which the borrowing limitation would be 
related would be expressed as a four-quarter average of required 
reserves. The Steering Committee also concluded that it would be 
well to move the amount limitation to the upper end of the ranges 
previously published and suggested that the formula for computing 
that amount be stated as follows: 40 per cent of the first $1 million; 
20 per cent of the amount between $1 million and $10 million; and 
10 per cent of the amount in excess of $10 million, with frequency 

1114 
4/2/69 
-13-
of use limited to 13 of any 26 consecutive reserve periods. This 
would produce an aggregate borrowing potential estimated at approximately 
$4.3 billion. 
Another change was designed to make the seasonal borrowing 
privilege more in keeping with its chief purpose, that is, to improve 
the ability of banks with limited access to outside sources of credit 
to serve communities with relatively narrow and undiversified economic 
bases. The change emphasized measurement of seasonal needs. 
There had also been some revision of the language relating 
to the so-called "other adjustment credit," the credit designed to 
meet needs larger in amount or longer in duration than could be 
accommodated under the basic borrowing privilege. Originally it was 
provided that a member bank should refrain from acting as a net seller 
of Federal funds in the same reserve period in which it was borrowing 
from its Reserve Bank. However, that condition had been liberalized 
slightly so as to focus on the practice of regularly making use of 
the basic borrowing privilege and selling funds on a net basis 
simultaneously. 
Governor Mitchell noted that there was necessarily a certain 
degree of uncertainty as to the use that member banks would make of 
the new privileges as well as the probable results. Although the 
Steering Committee recommended publication of the plan in the Federal 
Register for comment, it had not taken a position as to the date on 
which the plan should be put into effect. 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
In response to a question, Mr. Holland said the Manager of 
the System Open Market Account had expressed no objection to publication 
of the revised proposal for comment. The Manager, however, was inclined 
to feel that for purposes of publication the selection of a more 
conservative base for computation of the basic borrowing privilege 
might be worthy of consideration, pointing out that it would be easier 
to liberalize, if that should seem desirable upon study of comments 
received, than to retreat. Mr. Holland added that while he could 
understand the point, he had been impressed by the problems presented 
if the plan stopped short of the goals sought to be achieved. 
From the ensuing discussion it developed that three of the 
members of the Board (Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill) would 
have been prepared to move forward at this time and publish the proposal 
for comment. However, other members expressed reservations. 
Governor Daane's reservations were directed in part to the 
question of timing, that is, whether in a period when the economic 
climate was dominated by inflationary pressures it would be advisable 
to set in motion a program under which substantially increased borrowing 
privileges would be made available to member banks. Along this line 
he expressed the view that if the proposal were published for comment 
the Board would be under something of a commitment to implement it 
unless comments received suggested a different course of action. Also, 
he was not certain that the ramifications of the proposal in terms of 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
probl ems that might be created in the managing of the System Open 
Market Account had been thought out fully. Finally, he agreed with 
the Manager that the proposal, if published, should be conservative 
in its approach to the scope of the basic borrowing privilege since 
adjustment in a liberal direction could be accomplished more easily 
than the reverse. 
Governor Brimmer concurred generally in the points raised 
by Governor Daane. In addition, it was his impression that under 
the revised proposal benefits would inure more distinctly to the 
larger banks than to smaller institutions. In all the circumstances, 
he was not only skeptical about publishing the proposal for comment 
but had some feeling that perhaps the project should in fact be shelved. 
Governor Robertson's basic concern had to do with the philosophy 
in respect to discounting that was inherent in the proposed redesign 
of the discount window. As he pointed out, it represented a significant 
deviation from traditional concepts involving such factors as reluctance 
to borrow and the discount window as an uncertain source of funds. It 
was not clear to him that many of the goals sought to be accomplished 
could not be accommodated within the traditional framework, while under 
the new format the potential for borrowing was tremendous and, as he 
saw it, could in certain circumstances be utilized in such a manner as 
to thwart or circumvent System monetary policies. Further, with regard 
to the discount rate, which would have to be changed more frequently 
and in smaller amounts, he foresaw complications or possible confusion. 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
Summarizing, Chairman Martin observed that today's exchange 
of views had raised important questions. As had been pointed out, 
a fundamental change in the discount machinery was being considered. 
Personally he had some doubts about various aspects of the current 
proposal, but basically it seemed to him that a revision was needed 
and that the philosophy embodied in the proposal was consonant with 
modern practices. However, the Board should be very clear about 
what it was doing and in any event it might not be desirable, for a 
variety of reasons, to publish the proposal for comment immediately. 
He suggested, therefore, that the matter be brought back for further 
• t , , 
i. . J 
consideration after a period of a few weeks. 
There was agreement with Chairman Martin's suggestion. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:00 p.m. with all members of the Board present and the following staff: 
t 
0 \d \ ^'tiC t 
i\ .5 C o I i J j 1 Ok,. 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Advisor to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Michigan banking matter. Mr. O'Connell referred to the denial 
by the Board of an application by State Bank of Michigan, Lansing, 
Michigan, for a branch in Coopersville. The bank had now filed 
evidence of improvement in its condition, and this information was 
being processed by the staff. However, the State Bank Commissioner 
had approved a branch at the same location for Old Kent Bank and Trust 
Company, Grand Rapids, and State Bank of Michigan was seeking issuance 
of a temporary restraining order. Mr. O'Connell requested authority 
to ask the U.S. Attorney to appear before the Court in opposition to 
such an order, on the ground the Board would refrain from taking action 
on the Old Kent branch application pending resolution of the suit that 
had been brought by State Bank against the Bank Commissioner, Old Kent 
Bank, and the Board. Eventually it would be necessary to present to 
the U.S. Attorney the record of the State Bank-Coopersville application 
and argue that the Board's action to deny had not been arbitrary or 
capricious. Meanwhile the Bank Commissioner was taking the position 
that State Bank had no application before him since its application 
had been denied by the Board and had not been refiled with the Commissioner 
thereafter. 

11-13 
4/2/69 
-12-
After discussion, Mr. O'Connell was authorized to proceed in 
the manner he had indicated. 
El Paso director. According to advice from the Dallas Reserve 
Bank, Robert F. Lockhart, a Bank-appointed director of the El Paso 
Branch, had been involved in an alleged misapplication of funds of 
his bank, had been ruled incompetent to stand trial, and had been 
committed to a medical center. The Federal Reserve Act provides that 
directors of Reserve Bank branches shall serve at the pleasure of the 
Board of Governors. Accordingly, the Dall as Bank requested that the 
Board declare the directorship vacant so that its Board of Directors 
would be in a position to appoint a successor to Mr. Lockhart. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to the sending 
of a telegram to the Dallas Reserve Bank in the form attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Mr. O'Connell then withdrew from the meeting. 
Monetary policy. The Chairman invited an exchange of views 
at this time with respect to possible use of several of the monetary 
policy instruments, with the understanding, however, that final decisions 
would not be reached today. 
First, it appeared likely that by tomorrow the Board would have 
before it information that the directors of most, if not all, of the 
Federal Reserve Banks had established a discount rate of 6 per cent 
rather than the present 5-1/2 per cent. 

1114 
4/2/69 
-13-
Second, there was the possibility of announcing an increase 
in member bank reserve requirements (presumably by one-half a percentage 
point against net demand deposits) either simultaneously with announcement 
of an increase in the discount rate or some time thereafter. 
Finally, there was the possibility of amending the Supplement 
to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, so as to increase the maximum 
rates payable on large-denomination certificates of deposit and thereby 
improve the ability of banks to stabilize the volume of such certificates 
outstanding. 
From the discussion it developed that all of the members of the 
Board would be prepared to take action tomorrow to approve an increase 
in the discount rate to 6 per cent. An increase in the rate, it was 
noted, was widely anticipated in the market and failure to announce 
such action would in itself be regarded as a signal. The remaining 
question appeared to be whether announcement of a move to 6 per cent 
would have enough psychological impact and constitute sufficient 
evidence of the System's determination to combat vigorously current 
inflationary pressures. The consensus was that an increase in the 
rate of one-half a percentage point probably represented the most 
appropriate option at this time and that announcement thereof would be 
likely 
to have the desired effect, especially if coupled with an 
increase in reserve requirements. 

11 12 
4/2/69 
-11-
On the reserve requirement issue, a number of the questions 
that were raised had to do primarily with the matter of timing. 
Technical problems involved in System open market operations and 
prospective Treasury financing were explored and, while there appeared 
to be some tendency toward resolving doubts on the side of prompt 
action, the question remained undecided. One member (Governor Maisel) 
had reservations with respect to a move on reserve requirements going 
beyond the question of timing, and it was understood that he would 
summarize in writing the views he expressed at this meeting. 
Although some sympathy was expressed for the plight of banks 
that had been experiencing attrition in their large-denomination 
certificates of indebtedness, the prevailing sentiment within the 
Board was against Regulation Q action at this time. Members pointed 
out, among other things, that such a move might be subject to misinter-
pretation. 
The meeting then adjourned 
• i 

i 
' • ^ L R t ^ . * ' 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1.116 
Item No. 1 
4/2/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 2, 1969. 
Wachovia International 
Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
27102 
In response to your letter of March 21, 1969, 
the Board extends the time for the disposition of the 
stock of Cayman Reef Development Company, Ltd., as 
specified in its letter of October 2, 1968, to July 1, 
1969. 
In reviewing this case, the Board has noted that 
within a period of less than five months your Corporation 
managed to interest several people in investing $80,000 in 
Cayman Reef Development Company, Ltd., an amount equal to 
80 per cent of that held by your Corporation. In view of 
this, it appears to the Board that the period of nine months, 
which has now been granted your Corporation, is a more than 
adequate period for the disposition of your holding. So 
that the Board may be kept informed as to your progress in 
disposition of this stock, it is requested that you submit 
reports on such progress as of May 2, and June 2, 1969. 
These reports should be sent to the Board through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Fcrrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1147 
D) 
••f^LRtsf:' 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
4/2/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 2, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
Fist Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Mr. John T. Keane as Assistant Vice President 
at the Buffalo Branch at his current salary rate of $24,000 
per annum for the period April 1 through December 31, 1969. 
This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as re-
ported in your letter of March 24, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1148 
BDARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
• F THE 
4/2/69 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 2, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
As requested in Mr. Strothman's letter of March 13, 1969, 
the Board of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum 
salaries for the respective grades of the employees' salary structure 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and Helena Branch, effec-
tive April 1, 1969: 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
2 
$ 3,400 
$ 4,300 
3 
3,500 
4,700 
4 
3,850 
5,150 
5 
4,250 
5,650 
6 
4,700 
6,300 
7 
5,300 
7,100 
8 
5,950 
7,950 
9 
6,700 
9,000 
10 
7,450 
10,050 
11 
8,300 
11,100 
12 
9,200 
12,400 
13 
10,250 
13,750 
14 
11,300 
15,200 
15 
12,500 
16,800 
16 
13,750 
18,550 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees with-
in the limits specified for the grades in which their respective posi-
tions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the minimum 
of their grades as a result of this structure increase should be brought 
within appropriate ranges by July 1, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 1 * 1 9 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
4/2/69 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
•f^LRE^V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 2, 1969. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 20, 1969, 
the Board of Governors grants consent to the continued 
holding by Bank of America of shares of Banco Intercontinental 
Espanol ("BIE") , Madrid, Spain, if BIE should issue and 
have outstanding at any one time debenture bonds up to 
the Peseta equivalent of $58,000,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1150 
Item No. 6 
4/2/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., 
Oakland, California, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Liverraore National Bank, Livermore, 
California. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Livermore 
National Bank, Livermore, California. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board 
gave written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Deputy 
Comptroller of the Currency recommended approval of the application. 

1151 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 19, 1968 (33 Federal Register 14196), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
time shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 2nd day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1152 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., 
Oakland, California, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Peninsula National Bank of Burlingame, 
Burlingame, California. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peninsula 
National Bank of Burlingame, Burlingame, California. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Acting 
Comptroller of the Currency recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
1153 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 2, 1968 (33 Federal Register 16130), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 2nd day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1154 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., OAKLAND, CALIFORNIA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
LIVERMORE NATIONAL BANK, LIVERMORE, CALIFORNIA, AND OF 
PENINSULA NATIONAL BANK OF BURLINGAME, BURLINGAME, CALIFORNIA 
STATEMENT 
Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
(1) Livermore National Bank, Livermore, California ("Livermore Bank") 
and (2) Peninsula National Bank of Burlingame, Burlingame, California 
("Burlingame Bank"). Each of these applications has been considered 
independently and is subject to a separate Board Order. However, 
because many of the facts and circumstances involved are common to 
both applications, this Statement contains the Board's findings 
and conclusions with respect to both. 
Applicant controls two banks, Central Valley National Bank, 
Oakland, California ("Oakland Bank") with deposits of $191 million, 
and First National Bank of Fresno, Fresno, California ("Fresno Bank") 

1155 
-2-
1/ 
with deposits of $28 million. 
Livermore Bank operates one office with 
total deposits of less than $6 million. Burlingame Bank operates one 
office with total deposits of approximately $11 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applica-
tions was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and his views and 
recommendations were requested. He recommended approval of both 
applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meet-
ing the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the 
1./ Banking data are as of June 30, 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
and refer to insured commercial banks. 

-3-
1156 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
with control of one-half of 1 per cent of the total deposits in 
California, ranks thirteenth among banking organizations in the State. 
Livermore Bank is the smallest bank in its primary service area, 
which is described as having an estimated population of between 
60,000 and 70,000 and encompassing the entire Livermore Valley which 
includes, in addition to Livermore, the City of Pleasanton and the 
community of Dublin. Six of the nine banking offices located in the 
relevant market area are offices of large State-wide bank systems. 
Burlingame Bank is the smallest bank in its primary service area, 
which Applicant states is the City of Burlingame, a residential and 
light industrial community with a land area of less than five square 
miles and approximately 28,000 people. The competitors of Burlingame 
Bank are offices of four of the largest banks in the State. Acquisi-
tion of either or both of the proposed subsidiaries would have but 
a negligible effect on Applicant's market share and on the degree 
°f concentration of banking resources in any relevant service area. 
That no meaningful competition exists between Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and Livermore Bank is explained principally by the facts 
that Bank is separated by 23 miles from the nearest office of any of 
Applicant's subsidiaries, that no primary service area of any banking 

27 
-3-
office of the holding company group overlaps or is contiguous to the 
primary service area of Livermore Bank, and that several of Applicant's 
directors combined own or control, directly or indirectly, 36 per cent 
of the shares of Livermore Bank. In the Board's judgment, there is 
little likelihood that significant potential competition will develop 
between Livermore Bank and the banks involved in the proposed affilia-
tion. The facts supporting this conclusion, among others, are those above 
stated, and the fact that the Livermore Bank and the proposed affiliated 
banks are separated by numerous intervening cities, banking offices, 
and physical barriers. 
Although two offices of Oakland Bank are located about 
three miles from Burlingame Bank, the facts of record show that the 
business each bank derives from the service area of the other is 
not significant. Burlingame Bank is 175 miles from Fresno Bank and 
40 miles from Livermore Bank; the San Francisco Bay separates the 
cities of Burlingame and Livermore. 
Acquisition of either or both of the proposed subsidiaries 
would not eliminate any significant competition between Applicant's 
present and proposed subsidiaries, nor have any adverse competitive 
effect on other institutions in the relevant market areas. There 
appears to be no reasonable likelihood that the acquisitions herein 
would, in any meaningful way, preclude future competition in any area. 
On the record before the Board, it is concluded that 
consummation of the proposed affiliations would not result in a 

1158 
-3-
monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area; and would not substantially lessen competition, tend 
to create a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in 
any relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant became a bank holding company in April 1968. Its management 
is essentially the same as that of Oakland Bank, the lead bank in 
Applicant's system; and its financial condition and prospects relate 
directly to these factors in the lead bank. 
Oakland Bank has been under its present management since 
1964. At periods since that date, certain aspects of the bank's 
managerial policy and capital position have been, in the Board's 
judgment, less than satisfactory. However, on the basis of infor-
mation made available to the Board, particularly the most recent 
bank examination data prepared by the Comptroller of the Currency -
the Federal authority having primary supervisory responsibility 
over the Oakland Bank - it appears that the factors relating to 
management and financial resources of the Oakland Bank are improved. 
Evidencing this fact is the favorable recommendation given the sub-
ject proposal by the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Managements of the Fresno Bank, Burlingame Bank and 
Livermore Bank, and their respective financial conditions are 
considered to be satisfactory. 

» 
1159 
-6-
On the basis of the evidence of record, and taking into 
consideration the dominant role that the Oakland Bank and its manage-
ment play in the overall operation of Applicant's system, the Board 
concludes that Applicant's managerial and financial resources are 
generally fair and consistent with approval of the application. 
Applicant's prospects, and those of its present and proposed sub-
sidiaries, appear to be favorable. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The 
areas served by each of the two proposed subsidiaries presently have 
an adequate number of convenient, full-service banking offices. How-
ever, consummation of Applicant's proposal would, with respect to 
the areas involved, provide an additional source of full-service 
banking, and contribute to a more vigorous competitive climate in 
their respective communities. Considerations under the convenience 
and needs factor are consistent with and are viewed as somewhat in 
favor of approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
APril 2, 1969. 

1160 
Item No. 6 
4/2/69 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
§ 226.101 Use of ranges or brackets to determine periodic rate of finance 
charge on open end accounts. 
(a) Section 226.5(a)(1) in effect gives a creditor the option 
in certain circumstances of stating (1) two or more separate annual 
percentage rates (e.g., the rate on a $700 balance might be stated as 
18% on balance to $500 and 12% on balance over $500), or (2) a single 
annual percentage rate determined by the "quotient method" resulting 
from applying the rates to a total balance (e.g., in the example above, 
an annual percentage rate of 16-1/4% on a $700 balance). 
(b) Section 226.5(a)(2), which relates to the use of ranges 
or brackets to compute periodic finance charges, does not prevent a 
creditor who uses such brackets from exercising the options referred to 
in § 226.5(a)(1). 
§ 226.102 Overstatement of annual percentage rate. 
(a) Section 226.6(h) provides that in certain circumstances 
the disclosure of an annual percentage rate which is greater than that 
required to be disclosed under the regulation does not in itself con-
stitute a violation of the regulation. Under this section may a dis-
closure regarding an annual percentage rate (e.g., "the annual 

-2-
1161 
percentage rate does not exceed 18%") be preprinted on a contract or 
periodic statement and comply with disclosure requirements when thje 
actual rate will at times be lower (e.g., 15%) for some transactions? 
(b) Section 226.5 specifies the methods which shall be 
employed in determining annual percentage rates. Section 226.6(h) is 
not intended to provide an alternative to these requirements, but is 
merely to provide appropriate relief to a creditor who overstates 
accidentally. Any disclosure of an annual percentage rate whether 
preprinted or otherwise which overstates the annual percentage rate 
determined in accordance with § 226.5 other than through inadvertence 
does not comply with requirements. 
§ 226.103 Transition period; using existing forms, suitably altered or 
supplemented. 
(a) Section 226.6(k) provides that, in some circumstances, if 
a creditor has been unable to obtain needed new printed forms by July 1, 
1969, he may use existing forms until new ones are obtained, but not 
later than December 31, 1969. In such instances, the existing forms 
must be suitably altered or supplemented to make necessary disclosures 
clearly and conspicuously. The requirement that existing forms be 
supplemented is met by attachments or enclosures. 
(b) Also in some instances, creditors encounter unavoidable 
delays in obtaining necessary equipment or computer programs needed to 
utilize new printed forms. Such delays can produce problems comparable 
to those involved in delays in obtaining printed forms. In such a 
situation, a creditor, under § 226.6(k), may continue to use existing 

1162 
-3-
I 
forms until the means of utilizing the new forms are available, but in 
no event later than December 31, 1969, and subject, of course, to; the 
conditions applicable under § 226.6(k): namely, that the creditor must 
have taken bona fide steps prior to July 1, 1969, to obtain the neces-
sary equipment or computer programs, and the existing forms must be 
"altered or supplemented as necessary to assure that all of the items 
of information the creditor is required to disclose are set forth 
clearly and conspicuously." 
§ 226.104 Disclosures in transaction involving multiple customers. 
Section 226.6(e) states the general rule that, except in the 
case of a rescindable transaction under § 226.9, where there are 
multiple customers in a transaction, the creditor is only required to 
make disclosures to one of them. However, in determining which 
customer shall receive disclosures, the creditor may not select a 
customer who is secondarily liable, such as an endorser, comaker (when 
designated as surety), guarantor, or a similar party. This does not 
prohibit the creditor from also furnishing disclosures to such persons 
who are secondarily liable. 
§ 226.105 Periodic statements; finance charge resulting from more than 
one periodic rate. 
(a) Section 226.7(b)(4) requires that a periodic statement 
for open end credit show the amount of any finance charge, and that the 
statement also itemize and identify that portion of the finance charge 
that is due to application of one or more periodic rates and that por-
tion due to any other charge such as minimum, fixed, check service, 
transaction, activity, or similar charge. 

11G3 
(b) This does not require the statement to state separately 
the portions of a finance charge due to application of two or more 
periodic rates. For example, if a creditor charges 1-1/2% per month 
on the first $500 of a balance and 1% per month on amounts over $500, 
the monthly charge on a $600 balance would be $8.50, which must be 
shown. However, it would not be necessary to itemize the two com-
ponents ($7.50 and $1.00) of the $8.50 charge. Under § 226.7(b)(5), 
the periodic rates that may apply to the account, and the applicable 
range of balances must, of course, be shown, but this could be 
preprinted. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1631, 
1636, and 1637.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 2d day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 7 
4/2/69 
April 2, 1969. 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
On the basis of the information in Mr. Coldvell's telegram of 
'// - / ? 
today to Mr. Martin, the Board of Governors, acting pursuant to 
authority conferred by section 3 of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. section 521), has terminated the service of Mr. ^ 
Robert F. Lockhart as a director of the K1 Paso Branch of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. As a result of this action, 
there exists a vacancy on the Board of Directors of said Branch. 
The vacant directorship Is one of those which, under the statutory 
provision cited above, is filled by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas, and consequently your Bank is now in a position to appoint 
A director to replace Mr. Lockhart. 
Your Bank la requested to make the Board's action known to 
Mr. Lockhart or to an appropriate person in his stead, in such 
manner as you consider advisable. 
Holland 
