PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 20, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
i 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

340 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 20, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
- Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Wernick, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Williams, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Zeisel, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Wood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Morgan and Mrs. Byrn of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other staff members of the research divisions 
also attended. 
Money market review. The usual weekly money market review was 
presented, prefaced by a briefing on recent economic data. Copies of 
the statistical charts and tables prepared for the purpose of today's 

O r< i 
3/20/70 
-2-
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
After discussion based on the review, the meeting continued 
with limited staff attendance including Mr. Farrell, Director, Divi-
sion of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, and Mr. O'Connell, Deputy 
General Counsel. 
Gold loan. In a memorandum dated March 19, 1970, the Division 
of International Finance discussed the proposed renewal of a $100 mil-
lion standby commitment for a gold collateral loan to the Bank of Spain, 
through the Spanish Foreign Exchange Institute, for a period of three 
months through June 30, 1970. The extension had been authorized yester-
day by the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, subject to 
approval by the Board of Governors, and the staff recommended such approval. 
The proposed extension was unanimously approved. A copy of the 
telegram 
sent to the New York Bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Postal strike. Mr. Farrell reported on plans that were under 
way to endeavor to assure continuation of check clearing and currency 
functions despite the stoppage of postal services in the New York City 
area, which now threatened to spread. Chairman Burns asked that the 
Board members make their whereabouts known to Mr. Holland in case an 
emergency required communication over the week end. 
Mr. Keir reported that the Government securities market had not 
thus far been adversely affected by the strike, although the Treasury 

S 4 2 
3/20/70 
-3-
was somewhat concerned about the effect on the bill auction next Monday. 
The stock exchanges were perhaps the most vulnerable of all the secu-
rities markets and%might be closed on Monday. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

943 
I t e m No.1 
T E L E G R A M 
3/20/70 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
March 20, 1970. 
COOMBS — NEW YORK 
Board approves three-months renewal of $100 million standby gold loan 
to Foreign Exchange Institute of Bank of Spain on terms described in 
your wire of March 19. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
KENYON 
