MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 8, 1968 

1665 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 8, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Mertz, and Plotkin, Miss Hart, 
and Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Lyon and Poundstone of the Division 
of Examinations 
Foreign banking matters. In connection with an application 
of Citizens and Southern International Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, 
for permission to acquire additional shares of Banco de Occidente, Cali, 
Colombia, it was noted that as of recent date the foreign loans and 

1GG6 
5/8/68 
-2-
investments of that corporation and Citizens and Southern National 
Bank exceeded the applicable guideline ceiling under the foreign 
credit restraint program. Accordingly, it was agreed to withhold action 
on the application until assurance had been received of an intent to 
reduce such loans and investments to a level consistent with the guidelines 
by a specified date that was deemed satisfactory. 
The following items were approved unanimously after consideration 
of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective numbers indicated: 
Item No. 
Letter to Irving International Financing 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to its acquisition of shares of 
Banco de Investimento Credisan S.A., 
Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. 
Letter to American International Bank, 
2 
New York, New York, granting consent to its 
acquisition of shares of a Senegalese company 
and a Bolivian company, both affiliates of 
Builders International, Inc., a Delaware 
corporation. 
Letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
3 
Association), New York, New York, approving 
the establishment of an additional branch in 
Puerto Rico, to be located in the municipality 
of Carolina. 
Barnett National. Issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on April 9, 1968, of the application of Barnett 
National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares 
of Regency Square Barnett Bank, Jacksonville, a proposed new bank, was 
authorized. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. A. 

1 G 6 7 
5/8/68 
-3-
H.R. 15495 and H.R. 15627. A memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated May 3, 1968, discussed the requests of the Chairman of the House 
Banking and Currency Committee for reports on H.R. 15495 and H.R. 15627, 
similar bills designed to safeguard the privacy of individuals and 
protect them from disclosure of incorrect information as to their 
creditworthiness. Each of the bills would place responsibility for 
administration in the Board. 
The memorandum commented, among other things, on various studies 
being undertaken currently in the general area of disclosure of credit 
information. A proposed report on the bills expressed the view that 
legislation should await the completion of such work and urged that in 
any event the Board not be designated as the agency having administrative 
responsibility. 
Question was raised whether a report was required at this time, 
particularly in light of the several studies in progress, and it was 
agreed that Mr. Cardon would determine whether the proposed letter, which 
had been modified in a few respects, should be sent. 
Secretary's Note: Mr. Cardon ascertained 
that a report from the Board was desired, 
and accordingly the letter was sent to 
Chairman Patman on May 10, 1968. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 5. 
Margin regulations. As recommended in a staff memorandum 
dated May 6, 1968, the Board approved unanimously the issuance of an 
interpretation regarding the circumstances in which a bank or other 

- 
1668 
5/8/68 
-4-
lender could be held to have in good faith not relied upon stock as 
collateral, with the effect that the loan would not be "indirectly 
secured" under the definition of that term in section 221.3(c) of 
Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Stocks, or section 207.2(g) of Regulation G, Credit by 
Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities. A copy of the 
interpretation, in Federal Register form, is attached as Item No. 6. 
Verification of bills. In view of the accumulation of a large 
backlog of predominantly unfit $1 bills, the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York had informed the Treasury, and also the Board, of its intent 
to work off the backlog by "fanning" the bills for denomination and 
then weighing them by packages on a sensitive scale. 
A telegram to the Bank interposing no objection to the proposed 
.zCi.i'., 
I 't r 
•..
 1 
procedure was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
Appointment of consultants. Professors Otto Eckstein of Harvard 
• . \ i f. r • ,, 
; „-. 4 
University and Karl Fox of Iowa State University were appointed as 
consultants to the Division of Research and Statistics, effective 
through December 31, 1968, on a temporary contractual basis with 
compensation 
at the rate of $95 per day for each day worked plus 
transporation expenses and per diem in accordance with the Board's 
travel regulations. Their services were to be used in connection with 
the work of the Consultant Committee on Prices and Price Measurement. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1669 
5/8/68 
-5-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memoranda from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
May 2, 1968, recommending the establishment of two additional 
Economist positions, one in the Banking Markets Section and the 
other in the Consumer Credit and Finances Section. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increases 
Robert M. Dunn, Jr., Economist, Division of International Finance, 
from $12,607 to $13,371 per annum, effective May 19, 1968. 
Jan W. Karcz, Economist, Division of International Finance, from 
$10,945 to $11,267 per annum, effective May 19, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Marguerite II. Fink, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business June 21, 1968. 
Governor Robertson noted a memorandum 
advising of the retirement of Lyndall C. 
McCloud, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics, effective May 7, 1968. 
On May 8, 1968, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as Indicated: 
^L the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
8 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
aPproving the establishment of a branch in 
Chester Township. 
Letter to Bourbon-Agricultural Bank & Trust 
9 
Company, Paris, Kentucky, approving the 
declaration of dividends during the year 
1968. 

1670 
5/8/68 
-6-
s . • . 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Item No. 
Letter to State Bank and Trust Company, San Marcos, 
10 
Texas, approving an investment in bank premises 
and granting an extension of time within which 
to establish an in-town branch (drive-in facilities). 

1671 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
5/8/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1968 
Irving International 
Financing Corporation, 
1 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 28, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold approximately 9 per cent of the capital 
stock of Banco de Investimento Credisan S.A., Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil, at a cost of approximately $500,000, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the 
purchase and holding of such shares in excess of 15 per cent 
of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation 
and Irving Trust Company and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

1.6 ? 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1968. 
American International Bank, 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 20, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to acquire at no 
cost and hold up to approximately 8-1/3 per cent of the shares of 
a Senegalese affiliate and a Bolivian affiliate of Builders Inter-
national, Inc., a Delaware corporation, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
It is understood that such shares will be acquired in 
consideration of a guarantee by your Corporation of a $500,000 
portion of an extension of credit to be made by Chemical B^nk New 
York Trust Company to Builders International, Inc. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the acquisition now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, and that due consideration is 
being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1673 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
i & i < 
May 8, 1968. 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), 
New York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish an additional branch in Puerto Rico, 
to be located between State Highway No. 887 and the marginal street 
of 65th Infantry Avenue, Municipality of Carolina, Puerto Rico, and 
to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in the Municipality of Carolina. 
Very truly yours, 
ft. •• :v. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 4 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
5/8/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
' 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
• 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
Regency Square Barnett Bank, Jacksonville, ' 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 
3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and 
section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an 
application by Barnett National Securities Corporation, a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the voting shares of Regency Square Barnett Bank, 
Jacksonville, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Florida State Comptroller, who 
is the State Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and 
recommendation. He recommended approval of the application. 

1675 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on November 8, 1967 (32 Federal Register 15559), providing an 
opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority; and provided further that the 
Agency Square Barnett Bank shall be opened for business not later than 
six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 8th day of May, 1 9 6 8 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
ir, • ' --
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
I s e a l ] 
y >}• 
• 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1676 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
REGENCY SQUARE BARNETT BANK, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board 
of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
rVV-/ I 
of 1956 (the "Act"), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Regency Square Barnett Bank, Jacksonville, 
Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. Applicant controls 10 subsidiary 
1/ 
2/ 
banks 
with aggregate total deposits of $366 million as of June 30, 1967" 
The lead bank and two smaller subsidiary banks are located in Duval County 
herein Applicant proposes to establish Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
and views and recommendation requested of the Florida State Comptroller 
a s State Commissioner of Banking. He recommended approval of the application. 
American National Bank and Trust Company in Winter Haven and American 
ational Bank in Cypress Gardens, which were acquired early in 1968. are 
deluded. 
2/ 
Banking data are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

1677 
- 2 -
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
weighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Florida control 73 of the State's 447 commercial 
banks and approximately $3.2 billion or 37 per cent of their aggregate 
deposits. Applicant is the fourth largest banking organization in the 
State, with control of 4.3 per cent of such deposits. 
In Duval County, which is coextensive with the Jacksonville 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, three bank holding companies and 
a nonregistered banking chain control in the aggregate 16 banks with 
$817 million of total deposits or 88 per cent of the deposits of the 

- 2 -
24 banks located there. The two largest bank holding companies each 
control five banks in the County and 31.7 per cent and 27.7 per cent, 
respectively, of total deposits held by commercial banks in the County. 
Applicant, with three banks in the County, ranks third and controls 
21.5 per cent of such deposits. Its lead bank, Barnett First National 
Bank of Jacksonville, with deposits of $174 million, is the third 
largest bank in the County and controls 18.8 per cent of total deposits 
there. 
3/ 
Bank s projected primary service area is described as a 
residential section, with approximately 55,000 people, contiguous to 
the City of Jacksonville, about 6 miles from its downtown area, and 
separated from Jacksonville proper by the St. James River. Bank would 
be the third bank in the projected primary service area. The two banks 
now located there are Florida National Bank at Arlington (deposits of 
$10 million) and American Arlington Bank (deposits of $7 million) located 
respectively, 3 miles and 2-1/4 miles from the proposed Bank site. 
Insurance has been approved by the FDIC for Bank's deposits, as well as 
> 
for those of another proposed new bank, State Bank of Arlington, to be 
established in the same general area and to be affiliated with the State 
Bank of Jacksonville ($38 million of deposits), the fifth largest bank 
in Jacksonville. Five other banks are regarded as competing in the area. 
pour of these, one of which is a subsidiary of Applicant, are downtown 
d' The area from which Applicant estimates that Bank would derive 
aPproximately 75 per cent of the deposits of individuals, partnerships, 
Qnd corporations. 

1679 
- 2 -
Jacksonville banks,and the fifth (deposits of $5-1/2 million) is located 
5-1/2 miles southwest of Bank's site and is an affiliate of American 
Arlington Bank. 
Inasmuch as Bank is a proposed new bank, acquisition thereof 
by Applicant would have no immediate effect on concentration of banking 
resources in the State, in Duval County, or in the designated primary 
service area. As Bank is expected to have approximately $6 million in 
total deposits after three years of operation, the potential effect of 
the acquisition on concentration of banking resources in any relevant 
area appears to be negligible. 
On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the proposed 
transaction would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monoplize or attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal on existing or potential competition, the Board finds that these 
considerations present no bar to approval of the application. 
Inasmuch 
as Bank will not open for business unless the application herein is 
approved, no competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries will 
lessened by consummation of the proposed transaction nor will potential 
competition be foreclosed. The two banks located in the projected primary 
service area were organized in 1955 and 1964, respectively, and appear 
to be well established and growing. Each is affiliated with a large, 
vigorous banking organization. Florida National Bank at Arlington is a 

du Pont subsidiary; and American Arlington Bank is affiliated with the 
American chain of three banks (aggregate deposits of $65 million). As 
a member of Applicant's group, Bank wculd not have any competitive 
advantage over its competitors in the area. 
According to Applicant, the projected service area has developed 
rapidly since its connection with downtown Jacksonville by a bridge con-
structed in 1953. The establishment of Bank will provide residents and 
small businesses of the area with another neighborhood alternative and 
should enhance competition therein. 
In the light of the foregoing considerations, and all the facts 
of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a 
monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant' s financial condition, management, and prospects are regarded 
as satisfactory. As Bank is a proposed new bank, it has no financial 
or operating history. Its management is to be drawn from Applicant's 
i 
system. As a member of Applicant's group, and by virtue of a location 
for which substantial population growth and economic development are 
forecast, Bank appears to have favorable prospects. The Board concludes 
that the considerations relating to the banking factors are satisfactory 
and are consistent with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Although the 
Present banking need s of the area apparently are being met either by the 

1681 
- 2 -
two banks now located there or by the downtown Jacksonville banks, the 
residents and small businesses in Bank's designated service area will 
benefit by having Bank as a convenient source of banking. Also the 
enhanced competition that may be expected to follow the establishment of 
a new banking alternative should benefit the local community. 
Bank is to be located adjacent to the Regency Square shopping 
center. Applicant states that said shopping center, completed in 1967, 
is the largest and most modern one in Duval County; that another retail 
center is close to Bank's proposed site; and that the two shopping centers 
and Bank's site are located at the intersection of two of the major high-
ways in the County. The establishment of Bank at the proposed location5 
would add particularly to the convenience of the residents, businesses, 
and employees in or near these shopping centers. 
In addition, as indicated earlier, significant further commercial 
development is expected in the next few years in Bank's service area. 
Such development is likely to generate a demand for better and more exten-
sive banking services. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the con-
Venience and needs of the area are consistent with and weigh in favor of 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
s°ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
sh°uld be approved. 
H°y 8, 1968 

b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 
5/8/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 10, 1968. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
th* * 
^ Y ° U r l e t t e r ° f F e b r u a r y 28, 1963, requested reports from 
£ c W e ° o n f y : r G
r d J 1 1 5 / ' R' 1 5 4 9 5 ' " T° P r ° h i b i t t h e unauthorized 
disclosure of credit information by insured banks and institutions 
to protect ^ 
P U rf° S e S' % a n d ° n H- R' 1 5 6 2 7 ' " T o e n a b l e consumers ' 
f
r ° 
themselves against erroneous or malicious credit 
m 
J " ' introduced by Mr. Zablocki for himself and Messrs 
Bingham, Foley, Halpern, Rees, and Reuss. 
M e s s r s . 
bank or s a v w f ^ T * 
b U 1 W ° U l d p r o h i b i t 
Federally insured 
Dank or savings and loan association from disclosing the identitv 
of any depositor or account holder or the credit record or status 
of any person without first securing the written consent of the 
person involved as to both the intended recipient and specific 
information. Exempted from this prohibition are disclosures 
pursuant to the order of any court or the request of any law 
or W f l T n t ° r i n v e s t i 8 a t i v e ^ficer of the Federal or any State 
h! ^ C ^ 6 ^ V e r n m e n t - 
T ^ 8 Prohibition is not contained in 
a.Hf 
, 
m ° 8 t ° t h e r r e s P e c t s y° u r b i H and H. R. 15627 are 
quite similar. Each contains a prohibition against any creditor 
making use of any credit report without advising the credit 
applicant concerned of the identity of the credit rating agency 
that made the report. Under H. R. 15627 this prohibition would 
be operative only if the credit applicant requested advice of 
the identity of the agency. While H. R. 15495 specifically 
defines "credit rating agency" to include any creditor 
the 
language of H. R. 15627 would seem to reach the same result 

The Honorable Wrightr Patman 
-2-
1 6 8 3 
Each bill also prohibits any credit rating agency from 
making a credit report on any individual without disclosing to 
him, at his request, the content of the report and, in the case 
of an "adverse report" (which is defined to include any unexplained 
refusal to give a report), the specific facts or allegations upon 
which the report is based. 
The Board is required by the bills to make implementing 
regulations and is authorized to provide exemptions under prescribed 
standards. This regulatory authority extends to the provisions of 
your bill relating specifically to all insured savings and loan 
associations, as well as to all insured banks. Violation of either 
of the bills or any regulations of the Board thereunder would be 
punishable by fine or imprisonment, or both. 
Unlike your bill, H. R. 15627 explicitly indicates its 
concern over an alleged lack of consumer protection relative to 
credit ratings in the operations of large banks and other large 
creditors, as well as to the data processing and transmission of 
credit information by interstate credit rating agencies; states 
that its aim is to afford to individuals a means whereby they may 
ascertain and, where necessary, take steps to correct credit 
ratings concerning themselves; and limits its application to 
credit reports based on information which is transmitted in 
interstate commerce or by any means or facility of interstate 
commerce. 
The processing, use, and disclosure of information 
relative to the credit worthiness of consumers by credit grantors 
and credit rating organizations clearly requires adherence to high 
standards of care commensurate not only with the personal nature 
of such information, but also with the basic need for its accuracy 
in the interests of both the users and grantors of credit. 
Devotion even to the highest standards feasible, however, would 
not guarantee against occasional failures, either human or 
mechanical, unfortunate though they may be. Nevertheless, some 
improvement in the situation may well be past due, and the need 
for vigilance with respect to proper standards may very well 
increase as the credit industry adapts more and more to modern 
and more centralized mechanical developments that make possible 
greater accessibility to sources of credit for consumers. 
In considering your request, the Board has noted the 
rejection by the House on February 1, 1968, of a proposed amendment 
by Mr. Zablocki along the lines of H. R. 15627 to the "Consumer 
Credit Protection Act" (H. R. 11601--S. 5) and that among arguments 
for rejection was the need for further study of so "far-reaching 
a proposal. 

The Honorable Wrights Patman 
-3-
1681 
We have also noted that, in indicating your intention in 
the House on February 15, 1968, to introduce a bill on the subject 
covered by the two bills in question, you related the matter to the 
study initiated by your Committee last November on credit cards 
and, among others, your bill, H. R. 12646, to prohibit insured banks 
from issuing unsolicited credit cards. 
In March the Special Subcommittee on Invasion of Privacy 
of the House Committee on Government Operations began Hearings on 
Credit Bureaus and Similar Data Gathering Organizations. The 
chairman of the Special Subcommittee has reported to the House 
that "the Associated Credit Bureaus of America have agreed to 
sponsor a series of industrywide meetings on the protection of 
privacy . . . to discuss alternatives and report back to my 
subcommittee this summer." He added that "the credit industry 
showed a commendable willingness to admit that problems exist 
and to soberly and responsibly search for answers." 
The Board believes that a determination whether Federal 
legislation concerning the use, transmission, and disclosure of 
credit information is necessary and, if so, the kinds of substantive 
and other provisions that ought to be contained in such legislation, 
should await the outcome of the hearings and conferences now in 
progress. The collection, processing, and transmission of credit 
information is essential to the work of credit grantors. It 
strongly influences the quality of service they are able to render 
to their customers, and, of course, has obvious bearing on credit 
risk. The interests of users or potential users of credit 
especially highlighted by the two bills are clearly of very real 
importance; and the Congressional activity already noted may be 
reasonably expected, alone, to have a salutary effect, as the 
recently initiated industry study suggests. Before deciding upon 
particular steps that may be necessary through legislation to 
protect these interests, a careful assessment must be made to 
avert the creation of inequities between various classes of 
creditors and among credit users, and to avoid the possibility 
that such legislation might impede the flow and availability of 
necessary credit information, reduce ready access by consumers 
to credit sources, or increase credit costs. 
With respect to the provisions in the two bills charging 
the Board with their administration, the Board strongly urges that 
it not be designated as the agency having regulatory responsibility 
for the area in question. The Board has no special qualifications 
for the function of writing regulations to implement bills like 
the two in question. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-4 
Placing further responsibility in the Board for measures 
not related to its primary function of monetary policy actions 
would seriously detract from the time and energy needed by the 
Board and its staff for that important function and its related 
duties. Indeed, the relatively recent increase in possible 
legislative measures designed principally for the protection of 
consumers, such as the two bills in question and others, leads 
the Board to suggest that the administration of such measures be 
placed in an agency whose responsibilities traditionally have 
required that it be more intimately concerned with consumer 
matters or that a new agency or department be established to which 
administrative responsibility for consumer protection measures 
might be transferred, and in which such responsibility for future 
consumer measures would be vested. 
Sincerely yours, 
sincerely yours, 
^ ^ 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

1686 
Item No. 6 
5/8/68 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221 - LOANS BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCK 
Loans Indirectly Secured by Stock 
§ 221.117 When bank in "ffood faith" has not relied on stock as collateral. 
(a) The Board has received questions regarding the circumstances 
in which an extension or maintenance of credit will not be deemed to be 
"indirectly secured" by stock as indicated by the phrase, "if the bank in 
good faith has not relied upon such stock as collateral," contained in 
clause (2) of a recent amendment to § 221.3(c) of Regulation U. A 
similar phrase is contained in § 207.2(g) of Regulation G and the fol-
lowing applies to that paragraph, insofar as appropriate and consistent. 
(b) In response, the Board noted that in amending this portion 
°f the regulation it was indicated that one of the purposes of the change 
was to make clear that § 221.3(c) does not apply to certain routine nega-
tive covenants in loan agreements. Also, while the question of whether 
not a bank has relied upon particular stock as collateral is necessar-
ily a question of fact to be determined in each case in the light of all 
relevant circumstances, some indication that the bank had not relied upon 
stock as collateral would seem to be afforded by such circumstances as the 
fact that (1) the bank had obtained a reasonably current financial state-
ment of the borrower and this statement could reasonably support the loan, 
Qnd (2) the Joan was not payable on demand or because of fluctuations in 
market value of the stock, but instead was payable on one or more fixed 

maturities which were typical of maturities applied by the bank to 
loans otherwise similar except for not involving any possible 
question of stock collateral. 
(15 U.S.C. 78g. Interprets or applies 15 U.S.C. 78g(d).) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 8th day of May 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
i / 
• i 
(SEAL) 

1 6 8 8 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
PART 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
., OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR* 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Loans Indirectly Secured by Stock 
§ 2 0 7 • 1 0 2 
When bank in "good faith" has not relied on stock as collateral. 
For text of this interpretation, see § 221.117 of this 
subchapter. 
(15 U.S.C. 78g. Interprets of applies 15 U.S.C. 78g(d).) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 8th day of May 1963. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No 
T E L E G R A M . 
5/8/68 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
May 8, 1968 
HARRIS - NEW YORK 
Reference your May 2 letter, Board has no objection 
to proposed procedure to verify $1 bills by weight under 
conditions set forth in your letter. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

1690 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
5/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 10, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
b 
T h e A c t i n g D i r ector of the Division of Examinations, on 
ehalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, on the southwest 
corner of Bridgewater and Powell Roads, Chester Township, Delaware 
County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within 
°ne year from the date of this letter. 
I n considering this application, it has been determined 
hat your bank's management is adequate, that the proposed branch 
will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. It is understood that plans are progressing 
tQr the sale of at least $25,000,000 in capital securities. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
5/8/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 10, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Bourbon-Agricultural Bank & 
Trust Company, 
Paris, Kentucky. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves, under the provisions of paragraph 6 of Section 9 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Section 5199(b) of the United 
States Revised Statutes, the declaration of dividends totaling 
$36,000 by Bourbon-Agricultural Bank & Trust Company, Paris, 
Kentucky, during the year 1968. This letter does not authorize 
any future declaration of dividends that would require the 
Board's approval under the foregoing statutes. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

C O P Y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F 
D A L L A S 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
75222 
i G " ; ; 
Item No. 10 
5/8/68 
my 8, 1968 
ttr. J. R. Thornton, President 
State Bank and Trust Company 
P. 0. Box 649 
San Marcos, Texas 78666 
Dear Mr*. Thornton: 
This refers to the requests contained in your letter 
or May l, 1968, for approval of an additional expenditure of 
approximately $14,669 for the purpose of construction of drive-in 
facilities and improvements to a Darklng lot, and for an exten-
sion of time for completion of the project. 
Cki behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under dele-
gated authority, this Bank has approved an additional investment 
in bank premises by State Bank and T^-ust Comnany, S:,n Marcos, 
Texas, of $14,669 for the construction of drive-in facilities 
and improvements to a parking lot. This approval is granted 
under the provisions of Section 24A of the F-d-ral Reserve Act 
and is in addition to the expenditure of approximately $46,5-30 
approved in our letter of November 24, 1967. 
Also, on behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved a six months1 exten-
sion of time from May 24, 1968, within vhich to complete the 
Project. 
Please furnish us advice as to the date on which opera-
tions of the proposed facilities will begin. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas R. Sullivan 
bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Vice President 
