MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 9, 1969 
• 
> ; 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 9, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman-^ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on December 1, by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
.'.-n:.. U;. L ror 
^vUi/iv:'"!.-:. 
v.-i; i VO-M, la.,' 
Minneapolis on December 2, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
-,.*,u U<
 :
> • ..! ' •: ' " 
r ;o . 
Philadelphia, and San Francisco on December 4, 1969, of the rates on 
1/ 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

3661 
12/9/69 
-2-
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Biil 
,r.-., C.'L. r..,,. :•• .V • 
V ' 
.--V: oj 
: - , 
. • 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Granite State Co-operative 
HUM 
; 
' t 
. 
• . , 
. , 
='...•...•. 
Bank, Dover, New Hampshire, into Somersworth-Rollinsford Savings 
'to 
; . v • . 
Bank, Somersworth, New Hampshire, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The con-
clusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Granite State Co-operative Bank, 
Dover, into Somersworth-Rollingford Savings Bank, Somers-
worth, would eliminate a small amount of competition now 
existing between the institutions and increase slightly 
the concentration of time and savings deposits in the 
second largest institution in the market. However, numerous 
alternatives for time and savings accounts and mortgage 
loans will remain in the area, and the overall effect of 
the proposal on competition would be no more than slightly 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Union National Bank and Trust Company, Mount Holly, New 
Jersey, into South Jersey National Bank, Camden, New Jersey, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing between Union 
National Bank and Trust Company, Mount Holly, and South 
Jersey National Bank, Camden, although there is some 
potential for increased competition between them. The 
overall competitive effect of the proposed transaction 
would be slightly adverse. 

3 (>{>;£ 
I ,7'V V. 
12/9/69 
-3-
Mid America Bancorporation. There had been distributed drafts 
of orders and a statement reflecting the Board's approval on November 26, 
1969, of the applications of Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, 
Minnesota, to acquire shares of Park-Grove National Bank, Cottage Grove, 
O ' i . * ' . ; 
' ! 
•. "' . 
Minnesota, and Suburban National Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Minnesota, 
proposed new banks. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies are attached under Item No. 1. 
First National Corporation. There had been distributed drafts 
of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on November 5, 
1969, of 
the application of First National Corporation, Appleton, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The First National Bank of Seymour, 
Seymour, Wisconsin. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies are attached under Item No. 2, along with the dissenting 
stetement of Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
Tennessee National Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated November 28, 1969, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
of Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
the following banks in Tennessee: The Blount National Bank of 

12/9/69 
-4-
Maryville, Merchants & Farmers Bank, Greenback, and The First 
National Bank of Oneida, Oneida. 
Following comments by the staff, the application was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First Virginia Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated November 21, 1969, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of First 
Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Bank of Nansemond, Driver, 
Virginia. 
Following comments by the staff, the application was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Egg Harbor Bank. The president of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust 
Company, Egg Harbor City, New Jersey, having been found guilty in 
Federal court on two counts of violation of Title 18, United States 
Code, had agreed, pending the outcome of an appeal, to withdraw from 
participation in the affairs of the bank. In accepting this agreement, 
in lieu of instituting administrative proceedings to accomplish the 
same objective, the Board had assumed that he would also forego the 
exercise of his voting rights as a shareholder in the bank. 
Subsequently, 

12/9/69 
-5-
word was received that this was not his intention. In addition, 
the Deputy Commissioner of Banking for the State of New Jersey had 
questioned the right of any supervisory agency to deprive a stockholder 
of his voting rights. In the circumstances, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia had recommended that the Board forego any 
restriction on the individual's voting rights as a shareholder, in 
which recommendation the Board's staff concurred. However, when the 
matter was brought to the Board's attention at the meeting on 
November 21, 1969, the staff was instructed to obtain additional 
information with respect to the extent to which the individual would 
be able to control the bank's directorate and policies through 
exercise of his voting rights as a shareholder. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated December 5, 
1969, in which Mr. O'Connell brought out that the individual's influence 
on the bank's policies would not appear to rest on his voting rights 
as a shareholder but rather on any personal influence that he would 
have with the remaining shareholders and directors of the bank. 
Accordingly, the Board's purpose would be served if the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia were to advise the gentleman that the 
Board would assume he would not in any manner, other than through 
the exercise of his rights as a stockholder, participate in or attempt 
to influence decisions concerning the conduct of the affairs of Egg 
Harbor Bank. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to the 
Reserve Bank. 

12/9/69 
-6-
After discussion, the letter was approved unanimously. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
System Open Market Account: book-entry procedure. Pursuant 
to the understanding at the meeting on August 26, 1969, the views 
of the Reserve Bank Presidents and Federal Reserve Agents had been 
sought with respect to the proposed conversion of System Open Market 
Account securities to book-entry form and the proposed related amend-
ments to the Plan for Securing Federal Reserve Notes by Pledge of 
Participations in Direct Obligations of the United States in System 
Open Market Account. 
Favorable comments had now been received, and in a memorandum 
dated December 1, 1969, Mr. O'Connell recommended that the Board 
approve the proposals set forth in detail in an attachment to his 
memorandum. Approval would amend the Plan immediately and leave 
to the New York Reserve Bank's determination the effective date for 
conversion of the Account securities to book-entry form. Attached to 
the memorandum was a proposed letter to the Presidents of all Federal 
Reserve Banks and the Federal Reserve Agents. 
Following discussion, Mr. O'Connell's recommendation was 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the Presidents and 
Agents is attached as Item No. 4. 
Health insurance plans. Unanimous approval was given to the 
following letters after consideration of background information that 

12/9/69 
-7-
had been made available to the Board, 
respective numbers indicated. 
Copies are attached under the 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
5 
City approving changes in the basic health 
insurance plan covering the head office and 
branches, effective December 1, 1969. 
Letters to the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
6-8 
York, Atlanta, and St. Louis approving 
revisions in the health insurance plans 
covering the respective head offices and 
branches, effective January 1, 1970. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
9 
Minneapolis approving changes in the basic 
medical insurance program for employees at 
the Helena branch, effective January 1, 1970. 
Chairman Martin joined the meeting at this point. 
Nassau branch. A letter to First City National Bank of Houston, 
Houston, Texas, granting permission for the establishment of a branch in 
Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting and 
Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
In this connection, Governor Robertson called attention to 
recent testimony before the House Banking and Currency Committee 
relating to the possible use of Nassau branches of American banks as 
a. means of harboring secret accounts. It was understood that the 

3667 
12/9/69 
-8-
staff would keep this in mind in connection with its further study 
of the Nassau branch question. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3668 
Item No. 1 
12/9/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC., 
s
t. Paul, Minnesota, 
f
or approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of Park-Grove National Bank, 
Cottage Grove, Minnesota, a proposed 
new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o
 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. lS42(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mid America 
incorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, a registered bank holding 
c
°mpany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares to be is-
sued by Park-Grove National Bank, Cottage Grove, Minnesota, a pro-
Posed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comp-
troller's office recommended approval of the application. 

2ms 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 15617), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the-proposal, A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis, pursuant to delegated authority, and that Park-Grove 
National Bank be open for business not later than six months after the 
d
ate of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D, C,, this 9th day of December 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and 
Governor Maisel, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
1
n the Matter of the Application of 
HID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC., 
S t
. Paul, Minnesota, 
f
or approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of Suburban National Bank of 
Koseville, Roseville, Minnesota, a 
Proposed nex7 bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o
 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2
 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
^gulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mid America 
incorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, a registered bank holding 
c
°
ra
pany, f o r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all 
(l
ess directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares to be is-
s u e
d by Suburban National Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Minnesota, 
a
 Proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
J.L 
e
 Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comp-
troller's office recommended approval of the application. 

u l ) ; 1 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 8., 1969 (34 Federal Register 15618), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation, Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
o r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis, pursuant to delegated authority, and that Suburban 
National Bank of Roseville be open for business not later than six months 
after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 9th day of December 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and 
Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
- APPLICATIONS BY 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC., ST, PAUL, MINNESOTA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
PARK-GROVE NATIONAL BANK, COTTAGE GROVE, MINNESOTA, AND 
SUBURBAN NATIONAL BANK OF ROSEVILLE, ROSEVILLE, MINNESOTA 
STATEMENT 
Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota 
( Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
t h
e Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' quali-
fying shares) of the voting shares of (1) Park-Grove National Bank, 
Cottage Grove, Minnesota ("Park-Grove Bank"), and (2) Suburban 
National Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Minnesota ("Roseville Bank") 
k°th of which are proposed new banks. 
Although each of the applications has been separately 
c
°nsidered and is the subject of a separate Board Order, because of 
f a c t s a
nd circumstances common to both applications, this Statement 
c
°ntains the Board's findings and conclusions with respect to both. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority,. - As 
Q u i r e d by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli 
C a t
ion was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and his views 

3 6 7 , 
-2-
and recommendations were requested. The Comptroller's office recommended 
that both applications be approved. 
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
ar
^y part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consider-
ation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transactions, - Applicant 
controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $24.1 million (.30 per 
cent of deposits held by all banks in Minnesota), and is the smallest 
five bank holding companies in the S t a t e d 
Applicant estimates 
i/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, refer to insured commercial 
banks, and are adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

3674 
-2-
that. after three years of operations, Park-Grove Bank and Roseville 
Bank will have deposits of $4.5 million and $8 million, respectively. 
Both of the proposed new banks are to be located in shopping 
centers in suburbs of St. Paul. Park-Grove Bank will be located 18 
miles southeast of St. Paul, and will serve an area with a population 
°f about 20,000, Roseville Bank will serve a group of communities 
w
ith a total population of about 85,000, located along the northern 
boundary of St. Paul and northeast of Minneapolis. One other bank, 
with deposits of $8 million, is located within the area to be served 
by 
Park-Grove Bank; Roseville Bank will compete most directly with 
three banks, each of which has deposits of $9 million to $11 million. 
In addition, a majority of the residents of Roseville and Cottage Grove 
commute to employment in St. Paul and Minneapolis, and large banks in 
those cities constitute banking alternatives for residents of the 
suburban areas involved. 
Park-Grove Bank would be located 17,5 miles southeast and 
23 miles east of Applicant's two present subsidiary banks, Roseville 
Bank would be located 8,5 miles north of the closer of the present sub-
sidiaries, and over 17 miles north of the other. It is not anticipated 
that either of the proposed banks would derive significant business from 
areas served by either of the present f;ubsidiariesP and the proposal is 
designed to permit Applicant to compete in areas which its subsidiaries 
cannot conveniently serve at present. Competition would thus be in-
creased in each of the local areas involved, withou • adverse competitive 
e
ffects in any area. 

kJ *.,» t 
-4-
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisitions would not result in a monopoly or be in fur-
therance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not re-
strain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monop-
oly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects0 -
Applicant, a recently organized bank holding company, is in satisfactory 
financial condition, with competent management and favorable prospects. 
In order to capitalize the proposed new banks, to provide a building for 
Roseville Bank, and to augment capital of its present subsidiary banks, 
Applicant's indebtedness would be temporarily increased* However, Appli-
cant has stated its intention to retire such debt by a sale of stock in 
early 1970e 
In that light, Applicant's financial condition would not be 
Aversely affected by consummation of the proposed transactions. 
The financial condition of Applicant's present subsidiary 
kanks, considering the increase which Applicant proposes to make in their 
capital, 
is regarded as satisfactory. Both are competently managed and 
have favorable prospects. 
The financial projections for the proposed new banks are 
S a t
isfactory, as are their proposed managements. Prospects of both ap-
pear favorable. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of both 
^Plications. 

3676 
-2-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Each of 
the proposed new banks will provide the usual banking services of a sub-
urban bank. In addition, through cooperation with Applicant's other 
subsidiaries, it is anticipated that each will be better able to accom-
modate larger credit requests, specialized credit needs, and trust service 
requirements, than would be possible without affiliation. There is no 
evidence of unserved banking needs in either of the areas to be served. 
However, consummation of the proposals would provide assurance of con-
venient services to businesses in the shopping centers in which the banks 
w
ould be located, employees and customers of such businesses, and resi-
dents of the surrounding areas. 
The additional convenience which consummation of the proposals 
w
°uld afford to the communities involved provides some weight toward ap-
proval of both applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c
°ntained in the records, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transactions would be in the public interest, and that the applications 
should be approved. 
December 9, 1969. 

3677 
Item No. 2 
12/9/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
Appleton, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 
P
e
r cont or more of the voting shares 
The First National Bank of Seymour, 
Seymour, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
, 
N 
• • 
• 
: 
- 
• 
. 
.. 
. 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o
 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<
1 2
 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National 
C o r
poration, Appleton, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of 
fc
he acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
First National Bank of Seymour, Seymour, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
i4
°tice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
a n
d requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
a
PProval of the application. 

3678 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 27, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14916) 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
XT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 9th day of December 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

/ 
3679 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST NATIONAL CORPORATION, APPLETON, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF SEYMOUR, SEYMOUR, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Seymour, Seymour, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was 
given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommendation 
were requested. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 

3630 
-2-
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in 
any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board 
finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
presently controls two banks in the State of Wisconsin, with aggregate 
deposits of $87 million.-^ it controls 1 per cent of the deposits held 
by all banks in the State, and is the State's tenth largest banking 
organization and ninth largest bank holding company. Acquisition of Bank, 
which has $10 million in deposits, would have only a negligible effect 
on State-wide concentration. Applicant would control just over 1 per cent 
of the deposits in the State, and would rank eighth in size among the 
State's banking organizations and bank holding companies. 
Bank serves an area with a population of 8,500 persons, which 
area encompasses the City of Seymour (population 2,500) and the surrounding 
area within a radius of eight miles. Within this area are two competing 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1968, refer 
to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

banks, the other Seymour Bank (deposits $5.5 million) and a $3 million 
deposits bank located in the community of Black Creek, seven miles 
southwest of Seymour. Both of these competitors are subsidiaries of 
Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, the State's seventh largest banking 
organization, and, with the support of Valley Bancorporation, both appear 
to be effective competitors. It does not appear that consummation of the 
present proposal would have any undue effect upon either bank. 
Applicant became a bank holding company in 1965, through the 
acquisition of voting shares of First National Bank of Appleton, which is 
the largest bank in Appleton and in Outagamie County, and a new bank which 
Applicant established near Appleton. It has not expanded since that time. 
The present proposal therefore would represent not only Applicant's first 
acquisition since its formation, but its only external expansion since 
acquisition of its lead bank. 
Although Appleton and Seymour are both in Outagamie County, the 
two cities are 22 miles apart and are located in separate banking markets. 
Applicant is situated at the southern extremity of Outagamie County. Bank 
serves a different geographic-area in the northeast quarter of the county. 
Bank derives less than 1 per cent of its deposits and loans from areas 
served by Applicant's present subsidiaries, and the latter derive no 
significant business from the Seymour area. Trade of the Seymour area is 
oriented towards the larger City of Green Bay (population 90,000), 15 miles 

3632 
-2-
to the east, rather than southwest towards Appleton (population 56,000). 
Many residents of the Seymour area shop and commute to employment in 
Green Bay, and large banks in that city are regarded as reasonably 
convenient alternatives to banks located within the Seymour area. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal thus would not eliminate 
present competition or significantly increase concentration in any 
relevant area. Neither does it appear that significant potential 
competition would be foreclosed, since Applicant's present subsidiaries 
could not, under State law, branch into the Seymour area, and since, in 
view of the limited population of the latter area and the fact that three 
banks are already located therein, the establishment by Applicant of a new 
bank in Seymour does not appear to be a likely possibility. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not result in a monopoly, nor be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, 
and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satisfactory. 
Bank's prospects are also considered favorable, and its management 
and financial condition are satisfactory. 

3693 
The Board concludes that considerations under the banking 
factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Consummation 
of the proposal would have no effect on customers served by Applicant's 
present subsidiaries. 
While there is no evidence that major banking needs of the 
Seymour area are not being served, Applicant's ownership will enable 
Bank to offer estate planning, full trust services, and direct leasing 
and computer services. Contemplated improvements in Bank's present 
services also include the accomodation of larger borrowers,development 
of an instalment loan department, and the addition of an agriculture 
agent to its staff. This local availability of improved and expanded 
services would be beneficial to residents of the area, as well as to bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by Bank provide some weight in favor of approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
December 9, 1969. 

3GS4 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND MAISEL 
The present proposal represents another step in a process by 
which Applicant and Valley Bancorporation, two bank holding companies 
whose activities are centered in Appleton, Wisconsin, have succeeded in 
isolating themselves to a large degree from any threat to their dominance 
which might be posed by competing banking institutions. The two organi-
zations presently control six of seven banking offices in the immediate 
Appleton area, 12 of 21 offices in Outagamie County, and hold about 70 
per cent of total county deposits. The proposed acquisition would result 
in almost two-thirds of the banking offices and 75 per cent of the depos-
its in the county being controlled by the two holding companies. 
As in the case of its approval of the acquisition of Seymour 
1/ 
State Bank by Valley Bancorporation, 
we believe the Board's action 
places undue emphasis on its finding that Outagamie County does not con-
stitute a single banking market. Although we have no disagreement with 
that premise, we do not accept the conclusion that, as long as the number 
of competitors in each market remains the same, competition will be 
unaffected by the fact that the same two competitors who dominate the 
Appleton market will also dominate the adjoining Seymour market. 
In the present case, Valley Bancorporation competes in both 
the Appleton and Seymour markets. In Appleton, its principal competition 
is from two subsidiaries of Applicant. In Seymour, its only competitor 
is the subject bank, which the Board has previously characterized as an 
1/ 1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 773 

3685 
-2-
2/ 
aggressive competitor,— 
If the present proposal is consummated, 
Valley Bancorporation, instead of having to meet aggressive competition 
from different sources in the two areas, will be more free to adapt its 
system-wide policies to those of Applicant, which will become its major 
competitor in both areas. This is precisely the sort of anticompetitive 
result which the antitrust laws, and the antitrust policies of section 3 
of the Bank Holding Company Act, were designed to prevent. 
I n
 United States v. Alcoa, 377 U.S. 271, 2G0 (1964), the 
Supreme Court described the anticompetitive vice of an oligopolistic 
market as follows: 
"As that condition develops, the greater is the likelihood 
that parallel policies of mutual advantage, not competition, will 
emerge. That tendency may well be thwarted by the presence of 
small but significant competitors." 
The tendency toward the development of "parallel policies of 
mutual advantage" by multi-market organizations may also be inhibited by 
the fact that one or more of such organizations faces competition in 
some of its markets which it cannot meet with policies adopted in the 
light of the competition x^hich it faces in another. This is particularly 
true where, as in the present case, the markets involved are geographi-
cally proximate. Permitting the two leading organizations in Appleton 
to expand in tandem throughout neighboring markets, eliminating in the 
process any significant competition which either may face from a third 
source, will have the effect of removing these inhibitions on uniformity. 
2/ Id. at 774. 

' 3686 
The result is to increase the likelihood of parallel policies in all of 
the markets involved. 
In view of this anticompetitive effect, which is not outweighed 
by any other considerations presented in the record, we would deny the 
application. 
December 9, 1969. 

i'wiiifivJ,.}^-
•p: 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F THE: 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2.0551 
Item No. 3 
.12/9/69 
A O D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C B P t J N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1969 
Mr. James V. Vergari, Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Vergari: 
This acknowledges your letter of November 13, 1969, 
addressed to Mr. Thomas J. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel, in 
which you advise, of the response by Mr. Richard S. Mi.schii.ch, President, 
Egg llarbor Bank and Trust Company, to your letter of October 23, 1969, 
regarding Mr. M5.schli.ch
1
 s agreement to withdrew from participation in 
the management, control, policy making, operations and affairs of the ' 
Egg Harbor Bank. Your letter indicates that Mr. Mischlich has contested 
the Board's assuued position that he would also forego the exercise, of 
his voting rights as a shareholder in the bank. Enclosed in your leti.er 
of November 13 was Mr. Mischlich's November 12 letter and a copy of 
letter from the Deputy Commissioner of Banking of the State of New 
Jersey, both of which question the Board's interpretation of Mr. Mischlich' 
agreement as including the exercise of his shareholder's rights. 
In. response to a telephone conversation with Mr. O'Connell, 
you have forwarded, by letter of November 26, 1969, information bearing 
on the extent to which Mr. Mischlich exercised his shareholder voting 
rights at the last annual meeting of the bank's shareholders, together 
with other data reflecting the total number of shares voted by proxy 
and in person at that meeting. In both your November 13 and November 2.6 
letters, you recommend that the Board not insist upon the restriction 
which it understood Mr. Mischlich to have placed upon the exercise of 
his voting rights as a shareholder. 
As you are aware, the Board's intent was to specify the 
restrictions which it believed to be implicit in the statements of 
intent made by Mr. Mischlich himself in his September 9, 1969 letter to 
the Board, based upon the Board's determination to take action reasonably 

3698 
Mr. James V. Vergari 
-2-
calculated to preclude Mr. Mischlich's exercising any effective 
control or influence on the operations of the Egg Harbor Bank, and 
its understanding of the restrictions necessary to attain that objec-
tive. After reviewing the information contained in your November 26 
letter and considering the recommendaticns made by you in this matter, 
the Board has concluded that the exercise by Mr. Mischlich of the 
voting rights tc which he is entitled ur.der his present shareholdings 
in the bank will not alone constitute tl:e type of control or influence 
intended to be precluded by the Board^s action. To assure this result, 
however, it is suggested that, in advising Mr.. Mischlich of the Board's 
decision to permit him to exercise voting rights with respect to his 
present stockholdings, Mr. Mischlich be advised that such decision 
assumes that, although he will exercise said voting rights, he will not 
directly cr indirectly participate in or attempt to influence the con-
duct of the. affairs of the Egg Harbor Bank. 
As noted in the Board*s October 17 "letter on this subject, 
we will appreciate continued advice of further developments in the 
matter of Mr. Mischlich's appeal from his conviction, of the occurrence 
of any circumstances evidencing or suggesting a departure by 
Mr. Mischlich from his committed withdrawal from participation in the 
affairs of the Egg Harbor Bank, and of any significant increase in 
Mr. Mischlich*s ownership of the bank's stock. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Foirestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3689 
B D A R D D F 
• • V E R N D R 3 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. ;>0551 
Item No. 4 
.12/9/69 
S-2112 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R t ^ P O N 
D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
By letter from the Board of August 26, 1969, you were 
advised of the proposed application of book-entry procedure to the 
System Open Market Account securities and, in that connection, of a 
proposed amendment in the Plan for Securing Federal Reserve Notes by 
Pledge of Participations (Undivided Interests) in Direct Obligations 
of the United Stater, in System Open Market Accour.t. Pursuant to a 
request for your views regarding the proposed book-entry procedure 
and revisions in the Plan, including an indication of whether you 
approved of such proposals, you responded giving approval to such 
proposals. Similar approval was given by the Presidents and Federal 
Reserve Agents of all other Federal Reserve Banks. You are advised 
that the Board has also approved application of book-entry procedure 
to Treasury securities in the System Open Market Account and the 
amendments to the Plan in the form proposed in the Board's August 26 
letter. 
The change in the Plan is effective on the date of this 
letter. Conversion into book-entry form of the System Account secu-
rities will be effected on a date to be determined by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. Notice of such conversion and of the 
effective date thereof will be given by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York to all Reserve Banks, Federal Reserve Agents, and the Board 
of Governors. 
This letter is being sent to all Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks and to all Federal Reserve Agents. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND 
TO THE FEDERAL RESERVE AGENTS 

3690 
'•f^U^'** 
B O A R D L1F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THF. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
.12/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1969 
Mr. George H, Clay, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The f.oard of Governors has approved changes in the Blue 
Cross-Blue Shield coverage in your District, effective December 1, 
as outlined in Mr. Mothersead's letter of November 14. 
Pleaee note that approval has been given although the 
Systemwide Health Insurance Guidelines proposed by the Conference 
of Presidents have not as yet been fully approved, pending consid-
eration by the Conference of revisions recommended by the Board, 
In this connection, it is noted that the reimbursement of surgical-
medical expenses under the revised coverage is based upon an 
administered schedule of reasonable and custernary fees, the only 
revision to the Guidelines recommended by the Board that affects 
basic hospitalization insurance coverage. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

••f^rsE&v 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
3 6 < ) 1 
Item No. 6 
12/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1969 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes 
in Blue Cross-Blue Shield coverage in your District, 
effective. January 1, 1970, as requested in Mr. Fousek's 
letter of: November 26. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

36*?2 
BOARD o f 
g d v e r n d r s 
or T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
12/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C (. 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1969 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in Aetna 
hospital and medical insurance coverage in your District 
effec-
tive January 1, 1970, as requested in Mr. Possum's letter of ~ 
November 14. 
Please note that approval has been given although the 
health .insurance guidelines proposed by the Conference of 
Presidents have not as yet been fully approved, pending consider-
ation by the Conference of revisions recommended by the Board. 
In view of the immediate need to revise the health 
insurance coverage in your District, it was considered sufficient 
that your proposed coverage follow that part of the guideline 
recommendations of the Conference which has been approved. Also 
that reimbursement of surgical/medical expenses is based upon an' 
administered schedule, the only revision recommended by the Board 
that affects the basic health insurant 2 program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

\o . 
b 
s*V 
B O A R D D F G C D V E R N • R 5 
• r THE 
E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
36' 
Item No. 8 
12/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 9, 1969 
Mr. Darryl R„ Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in 
Blue Cross-Blue Shield coverage in your District, effective 
January 1, 1970, as requested in Mr, Russell's letter of 
November 13. 
Please note that approval has been given although 
the health insurance guidelines proposed by the Conference 
of Presidents have not as yet been fully approved, pending 
consideration by the Conference of revisions recommended by 
the Board. 
In view of the immediate need to revise the health 
insurance coverage in your District, it was considered suffi-
cient that your proposed coverage follow that part of the 
guideline recommendations of the Conference which has been 
approved. Also, that reimbursement of surgical/medical 
expenses is based upon an administered schedule, the only 
revision recommended by the Board that affects the basic 
health insurance program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• K T H E 
Item No. 9 
12/9/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R « E S P D N D E N C t 
T D 
T H E 
Q O A R D 
. December 9, 1969 
M r . M . H. Strothman, Jr., 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in 
the basic medical insurance program foe employees o'f the 
Helena Branch, effective January 1, 1970, as requested 
in your letter of December 2. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
.Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 0 9 5 
BDARD • F GOVERNORS 
..^oVcovV'. 
OF THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M
 
1 2 / 9 / 6 9 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
D F T I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
December 9, 1969 
First City National Bank 
of Houston, 
1001 Main Street, 
Houston, Texas.. 77002 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to First City National Bank of Houston, 
Houston, Texas, pursuant to the provisions oi Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch ir«. Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject; to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
riot as a neans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is tc be no con-
tact with the local public aL the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, ana bookkeeping r.i-ay, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. 
In view of the ur.usual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to 
continuing special observation and review by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
is also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

o*u> 
First City National Bank 
of Houston 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve -requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United Stater, banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is unde-rstooci that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration i:: being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
