MINUTES 
Board of Governors' of the Federal Reserve System 
May 4, 1970 

1 3 7 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, May 4, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Mrs. Bryn of 
the Office of the Secretary 
An economic and financial review of the type customarily offered 
in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the purpose 
of today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with 
copies of the individual briefings. 
After discussion based on the review, the meeting continued 
with limited staff attendance. Mr. Hexter, General Counsel, entered 
along with Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, and Mr. Stoffels, Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics. 
11 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta on April 27 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Richmond, and San Francisco on April 30, 1970, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to 
those Banks. 
Presidential Commission. Mr. Holland reported that the Treasury 
had asked the Board, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board to provide financing for the Presidential 
Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation. 
It was his under-
standing that the two latter agencies were prepared to make contributions. 
A total cost in the area of $300,000, or perhaps up to $500,000, had been 
mentioned, but that was just a guess. 
Mr. Holland referred, in this connection, to a memorandum from 
the Board's Controller dated May 1, 1970, in which information was 
supplied with regard to projects sponsored by the Congress and by other 
agencies toward which the Board had made financial contributions in the 
Past. 
The Chairman noted that there were alternative methods of provid-
ing financing for operations such as those of the Presidential Commission 
on Financial Structure and Regulation. 
One, and perhaps the best, was 
to obtain appropriated funds. Another was to use Presidential funds, 
but it appeared that at present those were exhausted. Then there had 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-3-
at times been recourse to support from individual agencies. 
While 
there might be reservations with regard to the manner in which the 
Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation had been established 
and with regard to the method being used for its financing, the question 
was whether the Board should be willing to make a financial contribution 
if the two other agencies mentioned would do the same. 
There followed a discussion of the projects listed in the 
Controller's memorandum toward which the Board had made contributions. 
The circumstances attending those contributions were observed to be 
dissimilar in certain respects from the present situation, but some 
elements of similarity also were pointed out. During the discussion, 
the Chairman suggested that in a sense it might be preferable for the 
Board to makeia financial contribution to the work of the Commission 
with no strings attached than for the Commission to ask the Board to 
handle some project on its behalf. 
Board members suggested that it would not seem appropriate to 
wake an indefinite commitment of funds, and there was some suggestion 
that the Board should be given access to a Commission budget so that it 
could have a better understanding of the magnitude of financial assis-
tance that might be involved. 
It was concluded that perhaps there should 
be no rigid limitation, but that any arrangement entered into should not 
contemplate an open-ended drawing upon Federal Reserve resources. 

1 3 8 4 
5/4/70 
-4-
After further reservations had been expressed by some Board 
members, a suggestion was made that such reservations might be minimized 
if the Chairman were to talk with the Chairmen of the Banking and Cur-
rencies informally and clear with them a providing of funds by the Board 
in the circumstances. While Governor Brimmer registered objection in 
principle to any involvement by the Board in the financing of the 
Commission, other members of the Board were inclined to feel that the 
reservations held with regard to such a procedure would be substantially 
relieved through an informal clearance with the Chairmen of the Com-
mittees. Accordingly, it was understood that Chairman Burns would 
discuss the matter with them, subject to the further understanding that 
the amount of the financial assistance contemplated to be provided by 
the Board would be in the order of $100,000, or perhaps up to as much 
as $200,000, if needed, that it would not be expected that there would 
he calls upon the Board for additional amounts, and that any commitment 
by the Board to provide financing would be contingent upon advice that 
action had been taken by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board also to make contributions. 
Views of President Morris. 
Reference was made to a telegram 
o f April 29, 1970, in which President Morris of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston had expressed his views on two issues. 
First, with 
respect to margin requirements, while he would normally consider it 
better strategy to withhold any reduction in such requirements until 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-5-
after the stock market had clearly bottomed out, in the present context--
with a considerable number of major brokerage houses in precarious 
straits--he was concerned about the possible shock to public confidence 
if there should be a flurry of additional failures. 
For that reason, 
he would support a move toward lower margin requirements now. 
Second, President Morris felt that some sort of statement should 
be published soon on the new procedure for implementing monetary policy. 
He thought that perhaps the easiest way would be to expedite publication 
of the record of policy actions for the February and March meetings of 
the Federal Open Market Committee. 
If that was not feasible, he thought 
that the staff should be asked to draft a statement for consideration by 
the Federal Open Market Committee at its May 5 meeting. 
With respect to the second area of concern, Mr. Holland reported 
that the staff had drafted a possible statement, and he then distributed 
copies of the draft. 
He added, however, that in the opinion of the staff 
the issuance of such a statement would be of doubtful advisability. 
Several Board members commented that any such statement deserved 
careful consideration prior to its issuance, and Chairman Burns said 
that he saw only one possible reason for saying anything. There was a 
view in some circles that the Federal Reserve was no longer interested 
in interest rate developments, merely with target paths for the monetary 
a8gregates, and something could be said for dispelling that misunderstanding. 

mm 
5/4/70 
-6-
It was noted that such an objective would not be achieved by 
publication of the February and March policy record entries, and members 
of the Board concluded that there appeared to be no reason to release 
them in advance of the usual schedule. 
One member suggested that the only real question was whether 
something should be done to reassure the Government securities dealers 
that the System had not abandoned even keel, but the comment was made 
that that might be dangerous because it might be understood to con-
stitute a guarantee of the market. Another member commented that the 
basic issue was whether the placing of more stress on the aggregates 
was or was not compatible with even keel, and he suggested that the 
staff should at some stage submit a paper to the Open Market Committee 
on that point. 
Chairman Burns then commented that, while the time might come 
when some statement or press conference would be necessary, as of today 
he would suggest doing nothing. 
There was general agreement with that 
comment. 
Margin requirements. 
Governor Maisel recalled comments made 
during the recent meeting of the Federal Advisory Council with the 
Board to the effect that the incidence of maintenance margin calls by 
banks to brokers was linked to the level of Federal Reserve margin 
requirements. 
However, after further discussion with technicans sub-
sequent to the meeting, it appeared to be conceded that there was no 

1 3 « 1 
5/4/70 
-7-
relationship between the margin requirements of the Board and the 
sending of margin calls to brokers based on the maintenance require-
ments of the banks. 
There followed some discussion of this point and it was 
generally agreed that there appeared to be no direct relationship, 
although it was suggested that there might at least be some psycho-
logical link. 
The Chairman then inquired whether the staff had changed its 
basic view, as expressed in a memorandum dated April 28, 1970, and 
Mr. Partee said it appeared that a reduction in margin requirements 
would not directly reduce the volume of margin calls. 
Further, a lot 
of bank credit was on non-registered securities. The basic question 
was whether a change in margin requirements, say from 80 to 60 per cent, 
would alter the market environment so as to lead to an increase in stock 
prices. 
If so, the incidence of margin calls would fall off. 
Other 
things being equal, one would think that lower margin requirements would 
tend to lead to some stabilization or increase in prices. 
Chairman Burns commented that no one could know what the market 
would do, quite apart from any action the Board might take. 
However, 
it was incumbent upon the Board to release forces that it believed 
would work in the right direction, even though they might be neutralized 
by other forces over which the Board had no control. 

4 L 3 S 2 
5/4/70 
-8-
Chairmari Burns recalled that several weeks ago he had made a 
suggestion that the Board receive regular reports on the stock market 
from the staff. At that time he had not been contemplating any action 
on margin requirements. 
He had thought that the Board should refrain 
from taking such action as long as the homebuilding industry was 
depressed, and he had so expressed himself to Stock Exchange officials 
when they called upon him in February. 
Later, however, he had become 
concerned about the behavior of the stock market and began to think 
that developments in that market were tending to become dangerous from 
the standpoint of the overall economy. While in South America, the 
questions most frequently asked of him related to the behavior of the 
stock market. As market prices continued to fall, he began to feel 
that the time had come to take some action, even though it might be 
criticized. 
He doubted that it would be wise simply to stand aside 
if the Board had a weapon that could be useful at a time when the 
behavior of the market was endangering consumer and business psychology. 
Governor Daane said that, other things being equal, he had some 
feeling that action to reduce the margin requirements should be taken 
today. As he understood it, the Manager of the System Open Market 
Account felt that such action would be helpful psychologically. 
Governor Daane then referred to the Treasury financing, expressed the 
view that it might encounter considerable difficulty, and said he 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-9-
believed that anything the Board could do in a reassuring direction 
would be helpful. 
Governor Maisel agreed that it would be desirable to do some-
thing that would be reassuring. However, his question was whether the 
announcement of a change in margin requirements would have a reassuring 
effect. 
It might be read to indicate that the Federal Reserve consid-
ered the situation so serious that it felt it must act immediately. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that if the subject was to be taken 
up tomorrow he would like to have from the staff a judgment on the 
conflicting issues. His own judgment would be to do nothing. 
The 
market was probably behaving in a way that might have been expected, 
given the configuration of pressures in the economy and the outlook 
for the months ahead. 
Governor Mitchell said he had no doubt but that stock prices 
had dropped enough. However, he shared Governor Maisel's reservations 
about the effectiveness of announcement of a change in margin require-
ments in arresting a further decline. 
He would not be inclined to 
introduce a discussion of the question at the FOMC meeting tomorrow 
because he did not believe that such a discussion was likely to be 
1 ••• i a Lo• v t 
J" 
3 £ : !; i-„" -
Productive. 
Governor Robertson said he would not try to keep the Reserve 
t-'f . 
i
l 
jr.-mi: r.-i r h-s "V-v:! 
Bank Presidents from discussing the matter at the meeting tomorrow. 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-10-
However, he would suggest that the Board reserve its own discussion 
until after the meeting. 
In his opinion, action now on the margin 
requirements might indicate simply that the Board was fearful and 
therefore could do harm. 
Chairman Burns suggested that another interpretation would be 
that the Board, having a certain responsibility, was discharging it. 
If the Board was fearful, it would be lowering margin requirements 
substantially and flooding the banks with credit. As he saw it, senti-
ment had deteriorated significantly. 
He would urge that the Board take 
action and not delay very long. 
Governor Daane suggested that the Board should have the benefit 
°f the thinking of the Manager of the Open Market Account. 
It was 
agreed that there should be a conversation with the Manager and that 
the Board should be furnished a transcript of the conversation. 
It 
w a s also agreed that the Board would reconvene this afternoon. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:00 p«,m. with all Board members present and the following staff: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-11-
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Stoffels, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
There were distributed copies of a transcript of a telephone 
conversation that Governor Daane and members of the Board's staff had 
had with Mr. Holmes, Manager of the System Open Market Account, and 
others at the New York Reserve Bank at 12:30 this afternoon. A copy 
of the transcript is attached to these minutes as Item No. 1. 
There followed a discussion of factors such as what had happened 
in the past when initial margin requirements were lowered, the signifi-
cance of the withdrawal and substitution requirements, the price movement 
in the stock market today, the level of stock market prices in compari-
son with dates in the recent past, and the probable effect of a change 
in 
margin requirements on the Treasury financing. 
Governor Mitchell then stated that he thought the margin 
requirements were too high, given the level of the market and the state 
of the economy. With regard to the timing of a reduction of margin 
requirements, which was really the vital question, he had misgivings 
about making the move in the present market climate. He was inclined 
to feel that it would be better to wait until the situation was some-
what more tranquil. Action now might be interpreted as meaning that 

5/4/70 
-12-
the Board was panicking in the face of the sort of decline in stock 
market prices that had occurred. 
Governor Daane, on the other hand, felt that it would be better 
to go ahead. 
From a technical standpoint, the margin requirements were 
too high, and he believed that it would be rather inappropriate for the 
Board to stand idly by in view of the cumulative market developments. 
Action would indicate a concern on the Board's part and an awareness 
of what was going on. As Mr. Holmes had recognized, there would be a 
risk attached to such an action, but in his (Mr. Holmes') judgment the 
action should be taken, and the sooner the better. 
In addition, Governor 
Daane thought that the taking of the action should be helpful from the 
standpoint of the Treasury financing. 
Governor Maisel expressed agreement with Governor Mitchell and, 
with respect to the Treasury financing, expressed the view that action 
°n margin requirements at this time might have a negative effect. 
In 
his judgment the Board might be accused of overreacting, and with some 
justification. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the staff had prepared a paper that 
examined the technical implications of the Board's margin requirements, 
along with the question of the appropriate timing of a change if the 
Board wanted to reduce the requirements to a level more appropriate to 
current economic circumstances and the outlook. 
The staff had concluded, 
as he understood it, that on balance it would be better to wait for a 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-13-
while. The Board should consider the assessment of the Manager, but 
in the end it must rely on its own judgment. 
In the light of past 
experience with the handling of margin requirement changes, it appeared 
to him that the better course would be to hold off. 
If it was necessary 
to use Open Market Account operations to given assurances in support of 
the Treasury financing or other factors, he would do so. The Manager 
could use various measures as necessary, and the System would not have 
committed itself to anything that would interfere with the fight against 
inflation. 
Governor Sherrill commented that underlying factors would 
indicate that the initial margin requirement should be at the level of 
60 per cent. The main question, then, was one of timing. He would 
like to help the market, which had fallen too far too fast. That was 
not good for economic stability. 
The judgment that must be made was 
whether a reduction of margin requirements at this time would in fact 
help the market. After reviewing all of the factors and taking into 
account the Manager's judgment, he would approve moving the margin 
requirements down today. 
Governor Robertson expressed agreement with the views that had 
been put forward by Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Action 
in the face of the present situation might well be interpreted as an 
indication that the Board had given up on the fight against inflation. 
The market might be falling too fast; he was not sure. 
It was one of 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-14-
the consequences of the monetary policy program that the Federal 
Reserve had adopted, and he would hate to have anyone think that the 
System was backing away. To the extent that funds did not go into the 
stock market, they most likely would go into the Government securities 
market, and therefore the Treasury financing should be helped rather 
than hurt. 
Basically, he believed that the margin requirements pres-
ently were too high and that they should be lowered, but he doubted 
whether this was the best time to make a change, particularly a 
significant move. 
The Chairman then requested any further views of the staff, 
and Mr. Partee commented that all of the signals were such that a 
reduction of margin requirements could readily be justified. 
There-
fore, it was simply a matter of timing. 
Customarily, the requirements 
had been reduced at a time when the stock market was quieter than at 
Present. However, if this was considered an emergency problem because 
°f the speed of the decline and a need was seen for some psychological 
support, perhaps it would be desirable to try to give a little lift to 
the market through use of the tool that was available. 
It was a hard 
question of judgment. 
Mr. Holland noted that by any of the standard tests margin 
requirements were too high. 
If present developments continued and 
Produced a major set of problems, both in the stock market and in the 
bond market, a substantial price might have to be paid. 
In those 

5/4/70 
-15-
circumstances, a failure to act might be less responsible than acting, 
although the timing would be somewhat different from that in which the 
margin requirement instrument customarily had been used. 
Mr. Axilrod said that from the standpoint of the Treasury 
financing, to the extent that that was a consideration influencing the 
Board's decision, he did not think a margin requirement reduction would 
do any harm and possibly some advantage would be gained. Messrs. Partee 
and Holland agreed, as did Mr. Solomon, who added that in the present 
situation, with so many uncertainties prevailing, he doubted that action 
to reduce the margin requirements would be interpreted as meaning that 
the Federal Reserve was less concerned about inflation than before. 
Chairman Burns noted that the Board would be criticized if it 
acted or if it did not act. What he saw in the present situation was 
something close to a collapse in confidence, and that factor must be 
accorded consideration. 
The decline in stock market prices had started 
°ut as a salutary correction, one that he had welcomed, but of late the 
continued decline was becoming an obstacle to the orderly development 
°f the economy, and on that basis he was concerned. 
If the Board took 
action, it would no doubt be accused by some of having panicked. 
But 
if conversations he had had before leaving on his recent Latin American 
t r i p were any indication of the thinking of business and financial 
P
eople generally, he believed that action on the part of the Board 
would be in the right direction. A likely interpretation, he thought, 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-16-
was that the Federal Reserve had shown restraint and held back, but 
that at a certain point it had decided to act even in the face of 
criticism that it had neglected the need for homebuilding. 
The Chairman added that he had also been impressed by the ques-
tions of foreigners during his Latin American trip about the future of 
the U.S. economy. 
It was a confusing period, the Chairman said. 
The 
question was whether the Board should sit back and watch when the 
market had declined so significantly and rapidly. 
In his opinion, 
that would be hazardous. 
He would not want to exaggerate the likely 
effect of a reduction in margin requirements on the behavior of the 
market, but he thought it might be risky to wait too long. 
A report was read to the Board indicating that as of 3:30 this 
afternoon market prices had again declined substantially. 
When the discussion continued, Governor Mitchell said that in 
his opinion the sole question was the one of timing. 
Everyone appeared 
to agree that the margin requirements should be reduced at some point. 
To get him to vote favorably this afternoon, it would be necessary to 
show that the move would be helpful from the standpoint of the Treasury 
financing. Thus far, no one had explained why to his satisfaction. 
It 
appeared to him that in fact it might have an adverse effect. 
Governor Daane referred to the views that had been expressed 
b y the Account Manager, and Governor Maisel then reviewed reasons that 
he saw for not moving today. He added that it would be normal practice 

13531 
5/4/70 
-17-
to wait and see what the Presidents might say at the FOMC meeting 
tomorrow. 
Governor Brimmer said he detected no fundamental disagreement 
among the Board members on the need to reduce margin requirements, 
particularly in the order of magnitude suggested by the staff, in the 
near-term future. He did detect serious reservations about moving 
today or tomorrow, above all today. He felt it would be far better 
to have a substantial proportion of the members support a margin require-
ment reduction in the near future than to act today. 
Chairman Burns inquired what the views would be about acting 
tomorrow if the market again declined substantially, and Governor 
Mitchell said he would be willing to act then regardless of what the 
market did. 
He would prefer personally to wait two or three days, but 
if the market was down substantially again tomorrow, he would be will-
ing to act. 
Mr. Axilrod then made a further comment on the question of taking 
action today from the point of view of the Treasury financing. 
He 
suggested that many market participants at present were inclined to 
• i, 
think that the Federal Reserve did not care at all about what happened 
to interest rates because it was pursuing a policy based on targets for 
the monetary aggregates. 
In that psychological environment, the advantage 
l n reducing margin requirements would be that the action probably would 
he interpreted as indicating that the Federal Reserve did continue to 

5/4/70 
-18-
have some concern about what happened to markets generally. 
Whether 
that would help or hurt the Treasury financing, probably no one would 
be able to determine. 
Governor Daane suggested that it would be better not to take 
the margin requirement action as a part of System monetary policy, but 
Governor Mitchell said he thought it would be a monetary policy move 
in effect. The Board would be saying to the public that it thought 
the stock market had gone low enough and that it wanted to do what it 
could. 
Mr. Holland agreed with Mr. Axilrod that the action probably 
would be interpreted as reflecting some concern on the part of the 
Federal Reserve for markets generally, following which the Chairman 
commented that the action would be a clear indication to the market 
that the Federal Reserve had not completely accepted the monetarist 
theory, contrary to the impression existing in some quarters at the 
Present time. 
In further discussion, question was raised whether a check 
should be made with the Treasury before any action was taken by the 
Board. Chairman Burns noted that no one in the Administration had 
approached him on the subject. 
If the Board acted, the record would 
b e clear that there had been no involvement. 
Other Board members cited 
reasons that might be given for and against checking with the Treasury, 
hut there appeared to be no strong feeling in that regard. 

138 4 
5/4/70 
-19-
Th e Chairman then called for an informal expression on the 
question of taking action today to reduce initial margin requirements 
to an unspecified figure, and it developed that only three Board members 
were so inclined. 
Chairman Burns then stated that he might call a special meeting 
of the Board tomorrow afternoon. 
Inquiry was made whether it was intended that the question 
would be discussed with the Presidents, and it appeared to be the con-
sensus that the Board members should listen to any views the Presidents 
might offer but refrain from participating in active discussion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
,0 o * c-'iV. . 

1334 
Item No. 1 
5/4/70 
Memorandum of a telephone conversation with the 
Manager of the System Open Market Account on 
May 4, 1970 
Call started at 12:32 p.m. 
In New York: 
Mr. Holmes, Mr. Clarke, and Mr. Oltman. 
At the Board: 
Governor Daane, Mr. Holland, Mr. Partee, Mr. Axilrod, 
Miss Hart, and Mr. Stoffels. 
PARTEE: 
As ycrn know, the Board is concerned about sentiment in the 
securities market generally and has been for the past week 
or so. With the further sinking in the stock market this 
morning, we are wondering whether or not it would be advisable 
to cut initial margin requirements? 
HOLMES: 
We have been giving it some consideration over the past week 
with people in our Regulations T and U staff, and we now feel 
it would be advisable to cut initial margin requirements to 
60 per cent. 
PARTEE: 
I see. Of course, this would not have any direct effect on 
maintenance requirement calls. 
HOLMES: 
No, but it could have an indirect effect in that somebody 
receiving a margin call could sell other securities more 
readily. 
PARTEE: 
You mean something he might hold that is not in the margin 
account? f 
HOLMES: 
Yes. 

1 3 J J 5 
-2-
For margin account holdings, of course, our retention 
requirements would apply. 
But for the bank customers having 
nonpurpose loans, many would probably have securities in the 
box that they could use. 
Generally, if anybody were so inclined. 
Incidentally, the 
stock market came back at noon. 
It was off only 8 points. 
Nevertheless, I think we have a very jittery market. 
We recognize some risk in doing this. It could be interpreted 
in the market that we are giving up on the anti-inflation 
fight and are panicking a bit. 
Perhaps some indication that 
the System is aware that the stock market is in trouble and 
that we need to act on it without delay. 
I can understand the second remark you made, but not the 
first. The market decline has gone so far that this would 
be generally recognized as an action pointed to the steep 
decline in the market rather than a general credit move with 
inflationary connotations. 
Do you preclude that the market is in a cynical mood? 
That 
all of this is reaction rather than just words and cannot 
be misinterpreted? 
I think this is outweighed by the benefits. 

1396 
-3-
PARTEE: 
Our main concern here is in regard to timing. A cut in 
initial requirements would have only an indirect effect on 
the maintenance call problem. Therefore, it would seem 
desirable to have the maximum stimulating effect when the 
Board takes the action. We wonder, with regard to the major 
news developments and also in relation to conditions in the 
bond"market and the bill market, and with-the Treasury refund-
ing, whether there is any great advantage to choosing today 
or tomorrow or the next day to make a move. 
Have you any 
views? 
HOLMES: 
My view is the sooner the better. 
PARTEE: 
You would see no problem with Treasury even-keel or financing? 
HOLMES: 
With the Treasury market in its present condition, anything 
you do would be useful. 
HOLLAND: 
You would like to have the change known in the market before 
tomorrow's cash offering? 
HOLMES: 
It would be helpful. 
PARTEE: 
Then you would recommend an immediate reduction in initial 
margin requirements to 60 per cent? 
HOLMES: 
It sounds reasonable to me, 

• -ooiiiii. 
m
m 
PART EE: 
HOLMES: 
PARTEE: 
OLTMAN: 
0 
PARTEE: 
O L T M N : 
HOLLAND: 
I 
HOLMES: 
1 
: 
8 
-4-
How about initial requirements on convertibles? 
Would you 
agree that this should be cut 10 points to 50 per cent? 
Yes, that is our thinking here. 
The third change that the Board needs to consider is the 
question of retention requirements, which are now 70 per cent. 
We think there would be something to be said for leaving them 
at 70 per cent. Nevertheless, the question of whether they 
should be dropped also is one for the Board to consider. 
We are inclined at New York to think that 70 per cent ought 
to be retained. A change shouldn't be made because of the 
margin call problem. 
It would permit a further deterioration of 
accounts that are already in poor condition. 
We estimate that probably 27 per cent of margin debt is in 
accounts margined below 40 per cent. 
Sounds right. 
I don't think there would be any significant 
reaction to reducing initial requirements while leaving reten-
tion requirements alone. We have viewed the two as separate 
questions in the past. 
j . '• ' : ' • '. V 
I' ' - 
V" • * > 
' '
 
1 
A l a n , when we get this settled, can you go back to the 
Government securities market? 
How is the situation today? 
It is uncertain. 
The next problem is the auction coming up 
in about 40 minutes or so. There is a wide range of thinking, 

I 3 y y 
-5-
varying from 7-1/8 per cent for the 3-month bill and 7.40 or 
above for the 6-month bill to as high as 7.30 and 7.65 per 
. 
cent, respectively. 
Once we get through that, then we must face 
up to the coupon area and the cash financing tomorrow. 
It is 
hard to get a line on it at the moment since the banks have 
not made up their minds on the cash financing. 
With the books 
closing on the secondary market, the performance on Tuesday 
may have an effect on the Wednesday refunding results. 
Volcker is at Camp David. Are you in contact with Paul or 
are you operating with MacLaury or Geng? 
n • 
Geng, not directly with Paul. 
But Geng is in touch with him. 
Are the new long issues still above issue price? 
Just about at it. The quote on the 7-3/4's was 13-15, which 
would be just 1/32 over the issue price. 
It looks like a particularly tough market for the financing. 
As you know, we did a fairly massive job of buying this 
morning. 
Maybe things will settle down this afternoon, but 
I wouldn't bet 10 cents on it. 
Are you still wrestling with the possible question of buying 
rights? 

1399 
-3-
HOLMES: 
Not actively at this point. The Treasury has some money 
around in various trust accounts that it can use for this 
purpose. 
I do think we may have to consider buying some 
new cash issues in the secondary market, if they aren't 
behaving very well. 
AXILROD: 
How many long bills were you offered in today's go-around? 
HOLMES: 
$1.2 billion. 
AXILROD: 
How many did you buy? 
HOLMES: 
$668 million. 
AXILROD: 
The dealers must be running out of positions. 
HOLMES: 
No sign of it yet, and they want to be protected because of 
today's auction. 
AXILROD: 
It seems like a bottomless well. 
PARTEE: 
Well, I guess that's it. 
Disconnected at 12:45 p.m. 
