Minutes for October 26, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4 1 2 G 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 26, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Cloth, Craig, and Plotkin of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Shull, Cleaver, Lawrence, and Parry of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Nelson of the Division of Data Processing 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
^ e Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
o f The Live Stock Exchange Bank, Indianapolis, Indiana, into Merchants 

4 / 1 2 7 
10/26/67 
-2-
National Bank & Trust Company of Indianapolis, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The con-
clusion read as follows: 
There is virtually no competition between Merchants 
National Bank & Trust Company of Indianapolis and The Live 
Stock Exchange Bank, both of Indianapolis, Indiana, to be 
eliminated by the proposed merger. The potential for com-
petition between the two banks also is considered to be 
limited. It is concluded that the effect on competition 
would not be adverse. 
Examiners conference. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Solomon dated October 23, 1967, requesting Board approval of 
a conference of representatives of Bank Examinations Departments of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, probably to be held on January 18 and 19, 1968, 
and approval of a dinner in connection with the conference, probably on 
January 18. 
Supplementing his memorandum, Mr. Solomon explained that for 
several years it had been customary to hold such a conference annually 
in late March or early April in order to allow approximately six months 
between that conference and one held at the time of the annual convention 
the National Association of Supervisors of State Banks. That Asso-
ciation, which formerly met in the autumn, now proposed to meet in June 
°f each year and, for this reason, it seemed desirable to change the 
time of the annual Washington conference to January. 
Mr. Solomon also mentioned that in previous years the Board had 
aPProved a dinner for the Reserve Bank representatives and designated 

4 1 2 8 
10/26/67 
-3-
Board personnel. As had been the practice in the past, a list of those 
to be invited to attend the dinner would be submitted to the Board at 
a later date for advance approval. 
The Board then approved unanimously a conference of representa-
tives of Bank Examinations Departments to be held at the Board's offices, 
tentatively on January 18 and 19, 1968, and a dinner for Reserve Bank 
representatives and designated Board personnel, with the understanding 
that a list of those to be invited to attend the dinner would be sub-
mitted at a later date for advance approval. 
Survey of demand deposit classification status. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated October 19, 1967, from the Division of 
Research and Statistics requesting Board approval of a survey of demand 
deposit classification status at large commercial banks. The results 
the survey were to be used to determine the feasibility of collect-
ing data on the ownership and use of demand deposits by holder groups 
from large automated commercial banks on a regular basis. 
Surveys of ownership of demand deposits had been conducted by 
vV Cfc. 
the System every year but one from 1943 to 1961. Because errors in the 
estimates exceeded acceptable tolerances, the survey had been suspended 
and an outside sampling consultant was engaged by the System to deter-
mine the major sources of sampling error and to design a plan that would 
reduce them. Although the plan that the consultant subsequently recom-
mended would have substantially reduced the number of smaller accounts 

4129 
10/26/67 
-4-
and the total number of accounts reported, it would have increased con-
siderably above previous levels the number of banking offices surveyed. 
For this reason, reinstitution of the survey was not pursued in view 
°f the burden it would have involved for respondent banks, particularly 
a t a time when most large banks were deeply engrossed with automation 
°f their bookkeeping systems. 
In 1965, the Division of Research and Statistics began inten-
sive staff work looking toward possible resumption of a deposit owner-
ship survey at an early date, and the results of that study suggested 
that quarterly data on ownership of demand deposits and debits to 
demand deposits by ownership group were sorely needed for analyses 
underlying policy decisions. It was felt that reliable statistics of 
fchis character could be obtained with a much smaller sample of banks 
and with substantially less reporting burden than previously had been 
considered possible. 
In line with these findings, a staff proposal to launch a survey 
° n 3 quarterly basis was submitted to the System Research Advisory Com-
mittee in May 1967. Some members of the Committee expressed concern 
about the burden the survey would impose on respondent banks, and sug-
§ested that a monthly or quarterly survey of automated banks might be 
a niore feasible objective for collection of acceptable deposit data. 
was also recognized that in view of widespread changes under way in 
kank automation systems, reporting difficulties would be magnified if 

4130 
10/26/67 
-5-
banks were not promptly advised regarding the System's data needs so 
that they could be taken into account before their automation systems 
had become frozen. In light of these considerations, the Committee 
had recommended that the System conduct a survey of all large commer-
cial banks to determine their actual and potential state of readiness 
to supply information on deposit ownership. 
The proposed survey followed this recommendation, and specifi-
cally would determine the status of those banks with respect to automa-
tion of their demand deposit accounting and, if automated, their present 
and prospective capabilities for providing information on outstanding 
balances, average balances, and debits by ownership category. It was 
hoped that the information obtained in this survey would provide the 
W 
basis for making an early start, among large automated banks, toward 
establishment of a regular deposit ownership series that might subse-
quently be extended to smaller banks on a sampling basis. 
In response to a question by Governor Robertson as to why infor-
i 
mation on ownership of demand deposits was needed, Mr. Brill replied 
that the basic objective was to be able to analyze the relationship, 
° V er periods of time, between changes in deposit ownership by individual 
bolder groups and spending patterns. The aggregate data now available 
d i d not permit that kind of analysis. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether uniform procedures on the 
^art of reporting banks would not be needed. Mr. Eckert replied that 

4 1 , 1 1 
10/26/67 
-6-
this was true. The proposed survey was intended to determine what 
systems were being used so that the information from the reporting 
banks could be received on a consistent basis. He added that some 
banks that classified deposits were using a classification system rec-
ommended by the Federal Reserve. However, that had not been adopted 
by most banks; they were using a system suggested by the Bureau of the 
Budget. But by and large the systems were compatible; statistics suit-
able for Federal Reserve purposes could be derived from either of them. 
Brill observed that ultimately there would have to be a compromise 
between the systems of classification that would be most useful for 
Purposes of economic analysis and those used by banks for marketing 
and control purposes. 
Governor Sherrill said that it was his understanding that the 
Proposed survey was intended to determine the difficulties for the Fed-
e r al Reserve and the banks in coming to some uniform system. After this 
survey was completed, the Board would still have to decide whether to 
institute any data collection on a regular basis. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the belief that such data would be 
Useful i n connection with merger and bank holding company cases as well 
a s for basic research purposes. 
The proposed survey of demand deposit classification status at 
^arge commercial banks was then approved unanimously. 

10/26/67 
-7-
Possible violations of proxy soliciting requirements (Items 1 
gnd 2). There had been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Divi-
sion dated October 23, 1967, regarding possible violation of the proxy 
soliciting requirements of Regulation F, Securities of Member State 
Banks, by Mr. Jackson Chambers, a substantial stockholder of The County 
Trust Company, White Plains, New York. County Trust Company had requested 
the Board to take remedial action with respect to certain communications 
sent by Mr. Chambers to other stockholders of the bank, in that the bank 
believed that such communications constituted an integral part in the 
solicitation of proxies in violation of section 206.5 of Regulation F 
and section 14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act. 
(Under Regulation F 
n o person may solicit a proxy from a stockholder of a registered bank 
unless each person solicited is furnished with the information required 
bV the regulation.) 
The Legal Division expressed the opinion that there was insuf-
ficient 
evidence in this case to warrant a determination by the Board 
that the regulation had been violated, and recommended that the Board 
take no action with respect to Mr. Chambers' past communications. 
It 
did recommend, however, that a letter be sent to Mr. Chambers, with a 
CoPy to the bank, suggesting that he contact the Legal Division prior 
t"r» 
sending any further communications. 
It was also recommended by the 
Division that the bank be advised that if it was correct in its 
p°siti0n that Mr. Chambers had violated the Regulation F proxy soliciting 

10/26/67 
-8-
requirements, then the bank, in communications to stockholders refuting 
such allegations, would also be subject to such requirements. 
In reviewing the memorandum, Mr. Plotkin stated that although 
the Board had responsibility for enforcing the proxy solicitation 
requirements of Regulation F, and to seek injunctive relief in the 
courts if necessary, the Board in his view should not become involved 
in proxy contests unless there was clear evidence of willful violation 
of the Board's rules. For reasons he described, this did not seem to 
him to be such a case. Therefore, he recommended that the Board only 
go so far as to send to Mr. Chambers a warning letter putting him on 
notice of the Regulation F requirements and inviting him to contact the 
Board's staff before engaging in any further activities that might vio-
late those requirements. Similar advice would be sent to the bank. 
Governor Robertson agreed with the conclusion of the Legal Divi-
sion that the Board should not, insofar as possible consistent with its 
obligations, become involved in disputes of this kind between banks and 
stockholders. He suggested, therefore, that the proposed letter to Mr. 
Chambers be changed to place on Mr. Chambers the burden of determining 
which, if any, of the provisions of Regulation F were applicable to his 
activities, thus avoiding the prospect of the Board's being called upon 
for advisory opinions. Governor Robertson also expressed doubt that a 
c°Py of the letter should be sent to County Trust Company. 

< i i 
10/26/67 
-9-
Governor Brimmer asked Governor Robertson to what extent he 
would advise the bank of the action the Board had taken with respect 
to Mr. Chambers' alleged proxy solicitations. Governor Robertson 
replied that he would have in mind only advising the bank in general 
terms. However, his opinion was not firm; if it appeared desirable to 
send a copy of the letter to Mr. Chambers to the bank, he would send 
to Mr. Chambers a copy of the letter to the bank. 
Governor Sherrill expressed a strong preference for sending 
copies of both letters to each of the parties involved, for otherwise 
there might be questions as to exactly what had been said by the Board 
to each party, and Governor Robertson agreed that that was a good point. 
Unanimous approval was then given to letters to Mr. Chambers 
and to The County Trust Company in the form attached as Items 1 and 2, 
with the understanding that each would receive a copy of the letter 
sent to the other. 
Treasury financing. Mr. Holland reported briefly on the favor-
able market reaction to the terms of the latest Treasury financing. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
Ecuador, to be located in Cuenca. 

11 fiS 
10/26/67 
-10-
A letter was also sent today to The Chase 
Manhattan Bank (National Association), New 
York, New York, acknowledging receipt of 
notice of its intent to establish an addi-
tional branch in the Bahamas, to be located 
at Marsh Harbour on Great Abaco Island. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
October 23, 1967, requesting authorization (1) to collaborate with the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Treasury Department in a two-
month test of a facsimile transmission system that would transmit money 
market information between the New York Reserve Bank, the Treasury, and 
the Board, and (2) if the test proves satisfactory to all concerned, to 
arrange for continued operation of the system, with the Board paying for 
its share of the costs, estimated at $290 per month for the Board. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
George E. Jacobs, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business October 24, 1967. 
Hersey M. Woods, Jr., Elevator Mechanic-Operating Engineer, Divi-
sion of Administrative Services, effective the close of business Octo-
ber 24, 1967. 
On October 26, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
i^Lthe Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to Bank of Sturgeon Bay, Sturgeon 
Wisconsin, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish an in-town 
branch (drive-in facility). 
3 

of C<w •. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
10/26/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 26, 1967 
Mr. Jackson Chambers, 
Post Office Box 252, 
Bronxville, New York. 
Dear Mr. Chambers: 
In May 1967, you transmitted to the Board of Governors a 
copy of a complaint that you filed against The County Trust Company, 
White Plains, New York, in the United States District Court for the 
Southern District of New York. 
Paragraph 6 of such complaint states, in effect, that you 
require access to certain books and records of County Trust in order 
that you "may be in a position to exercise [your] rights under the 
Act to communicate with other stockholders with respect to the matters 
as to which management will seek proxies and to solicit proxies or to 
otherwise communicate with other stockholders in connection with the 
affairs of the bank." 
It has recently come to the Board's attention that, by letters 
dated June 2, 1967, July 28, 1967, and August 4, 1967, you communicated 
with certain other stockholders of County Trust and, it is assumed, that 
you intend to do so again in the future. In this connection, your atten-
tion is directed to certain provisions of Federal Reserve Regulation F, 
Securities of Member State Banks", (a copy of which is enclosed for your 
convenient reference) governing the solicitation of proxies from stock-
holders of County Trust. 
Section 206.5(a) of Regulation F provides "No solicitation of 
a proxy with respect to a security of a bank registered pursuant to 
section 12 of the Act [the capital stock of The County Trust Company is 
so registered] shall be made unless each person solicited is concurrently 
furnished or has previously been furnished with a written proxy state-
ment containing the information required by Form F-5." 
The term "solicitation" is defined in section 206.2(aa) of 
Regulation F to mean "(1) any request for a proxy whether or not accom-
panied by or included in a form of proxy; (2) any request to execute or 

Mr. Jackson Chambers 
- 2 -
A 
A 
not to execute, or to revoke, a proxy; or (3) the furnishing of a form 
of proxy or other communication to security holders under circumstances 
reasonably calculated to result in the procurement, withholding, or 
revocation of a proxy." 
(Emphasis added.) 
m 
The term "proxy" is defined in section 206.2(w) to include 
every proxy, consent, or authorization within the meaning of 
section 14(a) of the Act." 
Although it does not appear from the above-mentioned communi-
cations that you expressly requested the execution of a proxy, such 
communications may conceivably be viewed, especially in the light of 
the allegations in the complaint cited above, as "reasonably calculated 
to result in the procurement, withholding, or revocation of a proxy" and, 
therefore, constitute a "solicitation" subject to the requirements of 
Regulation F. In this connection, you will also wish to note that, in 
applying less detailed (at the time), but comparable regulations of the 
ecurities and Exchange Commission, the courts have said that the power 
o f the Commission "extends to any other writings which are part of a 
continuous plan ending in solicitation and which prepare the way for its 
Success. . . . The earliest stages in the execution of such a continuous 
Purpose must be subject to regulation, if the purpose of Congress is to 
be fully carried out." SEC v. Okin, 132 F. 2d 784 (2d Cir. 1943). 
Accordingly, before any further communications are sent to 
stockholders of County Trust, you should ascertain which, if any, of 
he requirements of Regulation F are applicable to such communications. 
the meanwhile, it is requested that you submit a detailed statement 
s to all your contacts with other stockholders of County Trust with 
espect to this matter, indicating specifically whether you have received 
ny proxies, powers of attorney, or other documents authorizing you to 
a c t on any of their behalves. 
g 
There is also enclosed for your information a copy of the 
°ard!s letter to County Trust with respect to this matter. 
Closures 

B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
4138 
Item No. 2 
10/26/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C n R P E S P Q N D F N I l E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 26, 1967. 
Mr. John Kley, President, 
The County Trust Company, 
White Plains, New York. 10602 
Dear Mr. Kley: 
Enclosed herewith is a copy of a letter that the Board 
of Governors is sending today to Mr. Jackson Chambers after consi-
deration of the issues raised in your letter of September 22, 1967. 
If, in fact, communications by Mr. Chambers are an 
integral part of a proxy solicitation subject to Federal Reserve 
Regulation F, then it would follow that your bank's letters to 
stockholders in refutation of Mr. Chambers' statements are also 
subject to Regulation F. Accordingly, before any further communi-
cations are sent to stockholders with respect to this matter, you 
should ascertain which, if any, of the requirements of Regulation F 
are applicable to such communications. 
The Board will, of course, appreciate baing kept advised 
as to any further developments in connection with this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt She m a n , 
Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
1 1 3 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
I t e m 
N o . 
3 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60600 
10/26/67 
(312) HA 7-2320 
October 26, 1967 
Mr. C. H. Herlache, President 
Sank of Sturgeon Bay 
Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin 
JOd TO ' *<y JT (iOVvi i'U'r* »-i i; ' 
. *! 1 
Ifear Mr, Herlache: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Ban!; has approved an extension of 
tine to December 31, 1967, in which your bank may establish 
a drive-in facility at the southwest comer of Fourth Avenuo 
and Jefferson Street, Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin. 
We shall appreciate being advised for record purposes 
of the date on which the facility is opened for business. 
' --v'. 
C'fj.v 
ScCE 
< r.»i '-'>' ' 
iji'- 
ICH 
, 
()tM%&?W 
, 
p } CO S c 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman 
State Banking Department 
Examiner's file 
C O P Y 
