MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 22, 1969 

3 1 <95 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 22, 1969. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sherril1
_ 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
* 1 ' V ; 
J. 
U 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

31g6 
10/22/69 
-2-
Commercial paper. 
In a memorandum dated September 2, 1969, the 
Legal Division submitted a draft notice of proposed rulemaking designed 
(1) to apply Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, to funds obtained by a 
member bank through the issuance of commercial paper by (a) an organi-
zation that controls a majority of the stock of a member bank and (b) a 
corporation that is majority-controlled by such an organization; and 
(2) to clarify the applicability of (a) Regulation Q and Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member banks, to funds obtained by a subsidiary of a member 
bank through the issuance of such paper and (b) Regulation Q to funds 
obtained by a subsidiary of a registered bank holding company through the 
issuance of such paper. 
The proposal was presented to the Board at this 
time, for possible publication for comment, because of the likelihood 
that member banks would make increasing use of these procedures, since 
the Board, by action on July 24, 1969, had restricted banks' use of 
repurchase agreements as a means of obtaining funds. 
The Legal Division's memorandum discussed the legal considerations 
i-nvolved in bringing commercial paper issued by various bank affiliates 
within the coverage of Regulations D and Q, having in mind certain 
situations that had come to the staff's attention in recent months. 
The 
memorandum listed a number of analyses prepared for the Board earlier in 
year exploring legal considerations relating to the Board's authority 
to bring such paper within the coverage of its rules governing member bank 

10/22/69 
-3-
reserves and payment of interest on deposits; those analyses had been 
associated with Governor Robertson's proposal, in a memorandum dated May 
19, 1969, to expand the meaning of "deposits" in Regulations D and Q. 
In 
a memorandum dated October 21 the Division of Research and Statistics 
described the recent increase in commercial paper in terms of both total 
amount outstanding and number of issuers. 
Discussion at today's meeting brought out that an early decision 
was needed not only because of the rapid growth in the issuance of 
commercial paper, but also because a large New York City bank that 
planned an issue of $250 million through an affiliate had requested that 
the Board take a position on the question whether it was permissible for 
a bank to obtain funds through the commercial paper device. 
Some members 
°f the Board said that they favored publishing the proposed amendment to 
Regulation Q for comment. 
The practice in question was an evasion of 
Monetary policy as expressed in interest rate ceilings under Regulation Q 
and publishing the proposal might act as a deterrent, since banks would 
be alerted to the fact that the Board was seriously considering taking 
s
teps to forestall increased use of commercial paper as a source of bank 
funds. 
However, other members of the Board expressed reservations, 
S p e c i a l l y on grounds of timing. 
Further discussion included comments on 
alternative moves that banks might take to obtain funds and responses by 
s
taff to various questions raised by members of the Board. 

3 1 9 8 
10/22/69 
-4-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
Board would consider the question further in the near future. 
Governors Danne and Brimmer then withdrew from the meeting, as 
did a number of members of the staff. 
Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado. 
In a memorandum dated October 4, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section of the Division of Research and Statistics recommended approval 
°f the application of Affiliated Bankshares of Colorado, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
°f thirteen Colorado banks. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that documents to 
implement this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
a
nd that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
Northeastern Bankshare Association. 
In a memorandum dated 
October 8, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Banking Markets Section of the Division of Research and Statistics 
recommended approval of the application of Northeastern Bankshare 
Association, Lewiston, Maine, to acquire shares of First-Manufacturers 
National Bank of Lewiston and Auburn, Lewiston, Maine. 
In a memorandum dated October 8, 1969, the Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation recommended approval of the application of Northeastern 

3 1 * 3 9 
' 
• 
10/22/69 
-5" 
Bankshare Association to acquire shares of The Peoples National Bank of 
Farmington, Farmington, Maine. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application with respect 
to First-Manufacturers National Bank of Lewiston and Auburn was approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting, and the application with respect to The 
Peoples National Bank of Farmington was approved unanimously. 
It was 
understood that documents to implement these decisions would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration, and that a statement to reflect Governor 
Robertson's dissent would also be prepared. 
Bank of America. 
In a memorandum dated October 14, 1969, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
a
pplicat ion of Bank of America, New York, New York (an Edge corporation), 
.••• y 
t o
 continue to hold stock of Banco Intercontinental Espanol and Banco 
Commercial para America, both of Madrid, Spain, after they acquired an 
I n
terest in a financial company to be organized in Spain. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved 
unanimously. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item^No. 1. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2?P0 
Item No. 1 
10/22/69 
s : 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2055! 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C D R R E 3 P C N D E N « £ 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 22, 1969. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
• 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your_letter of July 10, 1969, ana on the 
basis of information subsequently furnished, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation ("B of A") to continue to hold 
the stock of Banco Intercontinental Espanol ("BIE"), Madrid", Spain, 
and Banco Cotnercial para America ("BCA"), Madrid, Spain, after BIE 
and BCA each acquire 50 per cent of the shares of a new financial 
company ("Company") to be organized in Spain, at a cost to each of 
approximately $35,750, provided that at least one-half of BIE and 
BCA's investment is made within one year fron the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the continuad holding of shares of 
a n d 
fi
CA by B of A is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIE or BCA shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Company if Company at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if Company establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Spain or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to B of A; 
(2) That, when required by the Board o:: Governors, B of A 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Company as it may require from time to 
tine; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Company 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Company were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

Bank of Americc". 
- 2 -
3201 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Company in Spain 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve' Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of 
Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Company. 
The Board currently has under consideration the extent, 
if a n y , to which a subsidiary of an Edge Corporation may underwrite 
and deal in stocks of companies doing business in the United States. 
In granting this consent, the Board assumes that Company will not under-
take such operations until B of A has been advised by the Board that 
such operations are permissible. 
The foregoing consent is also given with the understanding 
that the acquisition will be made with resources of BIE and BCA and 
will not involve any transfer of funds, feither directly or indirectly, 
from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P e Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
