509 
Minutes for 
February 23, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include, a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

662 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 23, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Mrs. Sette and Mrs. Ray of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Maguire and Poundstone of the Division 
of Examinations 

663 
2/23/67 
-12-
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Citizens Fidelity Bank and Trust 
1 
Company, Louisville, Kentucky, granting an 
extension of time to establish a branch at 
Floyd and Gray Streets. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International 
2 
Banking Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to acquire additional 
shares of Credito Bursatil, S.A., Mexico, 
D.F., Mexico. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover International 
3 
Finance Corporation, New York, New York, grant-
ing an extension of time to acquire shares of 
Inversiones Abancay, S.A., Lima, Peru. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
4 
waiving the assessment of penalties incurred 
by The Home National Bank and Trust Company, 
Meriden, Connecticut, because of deficiencies 
in its required reserves. 
Letter to City National Bank of Birmingham, 
5 
Birmingham, Alabama, granting its request for 
permission to maintain reduced reserves. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
6 
authorizing the Bank to proceed with preparation 
of detailed plans and specifications for the con-
struction of a new building for the Cincinnati 
Branch and approving the termination of leases in 
and demolition of the Schmidt Building in connec-
tion therewith. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
7 
approving the payment of salary to First Vice 
President Walter H. MacDonald at the rate fixed 
by the Bank's Board of Directors. 

664 
2/23/67 
-12-
In connection with Item No. 6, Governor Mitchell noted that 
the revised plans submitted by the Cleveland Reserve Bank for the new 
Cincinnati Branch building were in harmony with understandings reached 
at a meeting of the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans with representatives of the Reserve Bank on 
January 27, 1967. 
Reports on competitive factors. There had been distributed 
drafts of reports to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in (1) the proposed merger of Federation Bank and 
Trust Company, New York, New York, into Franklin National Bank, Mineola, 
New York, and (2) the proposed consolidation of The Meadow Brook 
National Bank and Bank of North America, both of New York, New York. 
Each report, as drafted, contained a conclusion that the over-
all effect of the proposed transaction would be somewhat adverse. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that a statement should 
be made in each case that the proposal would have adverse competitive 
effects. However, the other members of the Board felt that a finding 
of somewhat adverse competitive effects was appropriate. Certain edi-
torial changes in the reports were decided upon, and there was agree-
ment with a suggestion that the conclusions of the two reports be 
phrased in similar language. 
Accordingly, approval was given to the transmittal of the 
reports to the Comptroller of the Currency with conclusions reading as 
follows, Governor Robertson dissenting: 

6 G 5 
2/23/67 
-4-
Merger of Federation Bank and Trust Company, 
New York, New York, into Franklin National 
Bank, Mineola, New York 
Since the offices of Franklin National Bank, Mineola, 
and Federation Bank and Trust Company, New York, to a large 
extent serve different areas, consummation of the proposed 
merger would not eliminate a significant degree of existing 
competition between them. However, the proposal would elim-
inate potential for more competition. Franklin National's 
position in New York City would be enhanced by the addition 
of approximately $281 million in deposits and 13 additional 
banking outlets. The overall effect of the proposed merger 
on competition would be somewhat adverse. 
Consolidation of The Meadow Brook National Bank, 
New York, New York, and Bank of North America, 
New York, New York 
Since the offices of The Meadow Brook National Bank, New 
York, and Bank of North America, New York, to a large extent 
serve different areas, consummation of the proposed merger 
would not eliminate a significant degree of existing competi-
tion between them. However, the proposal would eliminate 
potential for more competition. Meadow Brook National's posi-
tion in New York City would be enhanced by the addition of 
approximately $343 million in deposits and 16 additional bank-
ing outlets. The overall effect of the proposed merger on 
competition would be somewhat adverse. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of National Bank 
of Union City, Union City, Pennsylvania, into The Pennsylvania Bank 
and Trust Company, Titusville, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion stated that while 
the proposed merger would eliminate a small amount of competition 
existing between the two banks and potential for more competition between 
them, the overall competitive effect would not be significantly adverse. 

666 
2/23/67 
-12-
Review of foreign currency operations. With a memorandum from 
Mr. Molony dated February 20, 1967, there had been distributed a draft 
review of operations in foreign currencies prepared by the Special 
Manager of the System Open Market Account and proposed for inclusion 
in the Board's Annual Report for 1966. 
At Mr. Molony1s request, Mr. Reynolds discussed certain ques-
tions that had arisen in reviewing the draft report. One problem 
related to the section on the Canadian dollar. Specifically, last 
September the Bank of Canada drew from the System under its reciprocal 
swap facility and repaid the drawing on the first of November. It 
appeared that the Governor of the Bank of Canada had requested that 
reference to this transaction not be published. Compliance with the 
request would create a rather awkward situation since tables in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin made it quite obvious that some transaction 
had taken place. Mr. Reynolds suggested that either the section on the 
Canadian dollar should contain reference to the swap transaction or the 
section should be omitted. 
In response to questions, Mr. Reynolds indicated that he did 
not know why the Bank of Canada objected to publication of the trans-
action at this time nor did he know of instances where publication of 
comparable transactions had not ultimately been made. He added that 
it seemed to be the view of the Special Manager that it was appropriate 
to respect the wishes of other central banks as to nondisclosure of 
transactions undertaken at the initiative of those institutions. 

667 
2/23/67 
-12-
Governor Robertson rioted that the problem could not be resolved 
until the Board was aware of the specific reasons for the Bank of 
Canada's request and had ascertained whether any commitment was given 
when the drawing was made. Accordingly, he suggested that the staff 
ask the Special Manager to specify the reasons given by the Canadian 
authorities for nondisclosure. There was agreement with this suggestion. 
Another problem with respect to the Special Manager's review, 
Mr. Reynolds said, related to the lack of information on sterling opera-
tions during 1966. The draft of the pertinent section of the review 
contained less information than could be gleaned from data already 
published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin and in the Bank of England's 
Quarterly Bulletin; and it stood in sharp contrast to the statement 
published in the 1965 Annual Report. The omission of details from this 
year's draft was intentional; the Special Manager felt that the presen-
tation of such information would be unsettling to the market and that 
the sophisticated observer might come to certain conclusions injurious 
to the position of sterling. 
Further, Mr. Reynolds said, the omission from the Special 
Manager's review of information on transactions in sterling and the 
Canadian dollar made it difficult to construct and include in the 
Annual Report a summary table on foreign currency operations such as 
had been included in the Annual Report for 1965. 
After discussion of the situation, Governor Robertson suggested 
that the same procedure be followed in the British matter as in the 

668 
2/23/67 
-12-
Canadian case, namely, that the Special Manager be requested to furnish 
a complete statement of the reasoning as to why the inclusion of a more 
complete section on sterling was not considered appropriate. There was 
agreement with this suggestion. In this connection, Governor Brimmer 
suggested that it might be helpful in reaching a conclusion if the 
Board had before it a draft supplying information comparable in scope 
to the section on sterling contained in the 1965 Annual Report. He 
made the same suggestion with respect to preparation of the tabular 
summary referred to by Mr. Reynolds. 
Consideration of the Canadian and British questions led to a 
discussion of the general practice of disclosure and nondisclosure of 
operations under the swap facilities. Members of the Board expressed 
the view that the guiding philosophy should be one of disclosure, after 
a suitable time lag, although Governor Daane noted that the problem 
should be studied carefully in order to be sure that the usefulness of 
the swap arrangements was not inhibited. 
It was generally agreed that the Federal Open Market Committee 
should consider at an early meeting the question of adopting a policy 
that would contemplate disclosure of foreign currency transactions after 
a suitable time lag, with knowledge to other central banks of the 
existence of such a policy and with the caveat that the Special Manager 
should clear with the Committee in advance any prospective transaction 
that would involve a deviation from such policy. 

669 
2/23/67 
-12-
It was understood that the staff would pursue the Canadian and 
British matters further in line with the procedural suggestions made 
at this morning's meeting, and that steps would be taken looking toward 
consideration of the broader policy question by the Open Market Commit-
tee. 
Moody Foundation (Item No. 8). There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Legal Division dated February 21, 1967, relating 
to a request from attorneys for The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas, 
for a further extension of time until July 1, 1967, for registration 
by the Foundation under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Prior to July 1, 1966, a foundation organized for charitable 
purposes, such as the Moody Foundation, was exempt from bank holding 
company status. However, this so-called "charitable" exemption was 
deleted from the Bank Holding Company Act by the 1966 amendments. On 
November 2, 1966, the Board concluded that the Moody Foundation was a 
bank holding company under the Act on the basis of its direct and 
indirect ownership or control of 25 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of two or more banks, and that it should register as a bank hold-
ing company under section 5 of the Act. Later in November the Founda-
tion divested itself of shareholdings in excess of 24.99 per cent of 
the Bank of Galveston, National Association, Galveston, Texas, and on 
December 15, 1966, the Board granted a request for an extension of time 
for the Foundation to register as a bank holding company until February 27, 
1967. 

10 
2/23/67 
-12-
Attorneys for the Foundation had now submitted a proposed plan 
for the divestment of another of the Foundation's holdings -- its 
interest in a private bank, W. L. Moody & Co., also of Galveston. The 
legal aspects of the proposal were being studied by the Legal Division, 
which now recommended that the Board grant a further extension of time 
for registration to provide opportunity for full analysis of the plan. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he did not consider it appro-
priate to grant a further extension of time for registration until the 
first of July. In his opinion the preferable course would be for the 
Foundation to register promptly and then negotiate on a plan of dives-
titure that would terminate its status as a bank holding company. 
Other members of the Board expressed the view that the suggested 
extension of time was warranted because a requirement of immediate reg-
istration would pose problems for the Foundation and the granting of 
an extension of time for registration in special circumstances was not 
unprecedented. 
Accordingly, the extension of time for registration until July 1, 
1967, was granted, Governor Brimmer dissenting. A copy of the letter 
sent to the attorneys for the Moody Foundation pursuant to this action 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
Salaries at Chicago Reserve Bank. At the meeting on February 20, 
1967, initial consideration was given to a request from the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago for approval of the payment of salaries to cer-
tain employees at rates higher than the maximums of their respective 

671 
2/23/67 
-10-
grades in the Bank's salary structure, incident to the Bank's proposal 
to grant a general pay increase. The matter was referred to Governor 
Mitchell for discussion with President Scanlon. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell indicated that President 
Scanlon had inquired as to the extent to which blanket increases had 
been given by Reserve Banks. Such increases were not subject to Board 
approval, and Governor Mitchell felt that an inventory would be helpful. 
Accordingly, the Division of Personnel Administration was obtaining 
pertinent information from the Reserve Banks. 
In the meantime, Governor Mitchell proposed to ask the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago for data on separations by salary grade, by 
department, and by reason; data on unfilled job requisitions; and 
statements on current training programs and steps taken in earlier 
periods of tightening labor markets. 
After discussion, it was understood that Governor Mitchell 
would request information along the lines he had indicated from the 
Chicago Reserve Bank. It was also understood that after the Personnel 
Division had accumulated the information being sought on the extent to 
which general pay increases had been granted by the Reserve Banks the 
subject would be given further consideration in terms of its policy 
implications. 
Conference of Business Economists. There was a brief discus-
sion of the meeting scheduled for tomorrow with the Conference of 

G72 
2/23/67 
-11-
Business Economists pursuant to arrangements requested by that group, 
and general agreement was reached on a format for the meeting. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon 
then withdrew. 
Travel by Mr. Solomon. The Board authorized Robert Solomon, 
Adviser to the Board and Director of the Division of International 
Finance, to participate in a conference on the foreign exchange market 
sponsored by the Graduate School of Business of the University of 
Chicago that was to be held in Ditchley Park, England, March 17-20, 
• I 
1967, with reimbursement on an actual expense basis, including an allow-
ance for official entertainment. 
Travel by Mrs. Junz. The Board authorized Helen B. Junz, 
Economist in the Division of International Finance, to spend approxi-
mately three days in Brussels and one day in London in connection with 
her previously authorized trip to participate in a symposium to be held 
at the College of Europe in Bruges, Belgium, on March 15-18, 1967, with 
Per diem in lieu of subsistence as provided by the Standardized Govern-
ment Travel Regulations for the portion of the trip now authorized. 
Travel by Mr. Reynolds. The Board authorized John E. Reynolds, 
Adviser in the Division of International Finance, to attend a meeting 
of central bank economists to be held at the Bank for International 
Settlements in Basle, Switzerland, on March 9-11, 1967, and to visit 
the Bank of England on March 13-15, with per diem in lieu of subsis-
tence as provided by the Standardized Government Travel Regulations. 

673 
2/23/67 
-12-
Directors Day. Reference was made to the program to be arranged 
for the annual meeting with new directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
and branches scheduled to be held on March 23, 1967. General satisfac-
tion was expressed with the format of last year's program, but several 
suggestions were made for realignment of various features. 
The Board then requested Governors Shepardson and Daane to work 
with members of the staff in preparing an outline of this year's pro-
gram for the Board's consideration, with the understanding that they 
would take into account the suggestions that had been made. 
The meeting then adj.ourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
Chile, to be located in Valparaiso, and an 
additional branch in Peru, to be located in 
Lima. The letters noted that no additional 
capital would be required from the home office. 
On February 21, 1967, Governor Shepardson 
approved on behalf of the Board the follow-
ing items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia (copy attached 
a s Item No. 9) approving the appointment of Trapier J. Jervay as assis-
tant examiner. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Anointment 
Margaret A. Fanger as Clerk, Division of International Finance, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,413, effective the date of 
er*trance upon duty. 

674 
2/23/67 
-12-
Salary increases, effective February 26, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
Cecilia A. Lawson,'Secretary 
$5,096 
$5,507 
(change in title from Stenographer) 
Eva Louise Shearer, Minutes Clerk 
5,096 
5,256 
Dolores Ann Winkler, Secretary 
6,065 
6,263 
Research and Statistics 
Rosemary Ferris, Statistical Clerk 
4,776 
4,936 
Duane Lougee, Economist 
7,696 
7,957 
Administrative Services 
Helen M. Lasko, Relief Cook " 
4,191 
4,324 
Barbara Fee McClelland, Composition Clerk 
5,683 
5,859 
Paul L. Tedrow, Operating Engineer 
6,781 
7,114 
Mary H. Wilson, Utility Clerk 
5,683 
5,859 
Transfers 
Cornelia A. Bates, from the position of Supervisor, Noncurrent 
Records and Records Disposal, to the position of Supervisor, Subject 
Files, Office of the Secretary, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $8,155, effective April 1, 1967. 
Joan V. Caulfield, from the position of Senior Records Clerk to 
the position of Records Technician, Office of the Secretary, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $6,739 to $7,253, effective 
April 2, 1967. 
Linda Mae Maney, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from the Capital Markets Section to the National Income, Labor Force, 
and Trade Section, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
$4,269, effective February 26, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 

675 
2/23/67 
-12-
Appointments 
Stanley P. Bridges as Program Analyst, Division of Data Processing, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Karen Hodges as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administration, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,557, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective February 26, 1967 
James A. Mcintosh, Technical Assistant, Division of Bank Operations, 
from $13,321 to $15,106 per annum, with a change in title to Senior Oper-
ations Analyst. 
P. D. Ring, Technical Assistant, Division of Bank Operations, from 
$13 ,769 to $15,106 per annum, with a change in title to Senior Technical 
Assistant. 
Edwin G. White, Technical Assistant, Division of Bank Operations, 
from $12,064 to $12,873 per annum, with a change in title to Senior 
Operations Analyst. 
Transfers, effective February 26, 1967 
Division of Administrative Services 
Quincy Barnes, Operator (Xerox-Mimeograph), to the position of 
Collator Operator, with an increase in basic annual salary from $5,699 
to $6,011. 
Glenn B. Hopkins, Painter, to the position of Operator (Mimeograph), 
with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $6,822. 
James T. Jones, Operator (Mimeograph), to another budget position, 
with an increase in basic annual salary from $4,888 to $5,158. 
Theodore Jones, Operator (Duplicating Devices), to the position of 
Operator (Xerox-Mimeograph), with no change in basic annual salary at 
the rate of $5,429. 
Abraham Rose, Operator (Mimeograph), to the position of Operator 
(Duplicating Devices), with no change in basic annual salary at the 
rate of $5,408. 

676 
2/23/67 
-15-
Acceptance of resignation 
Pearl S. Thompson, Senior Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, 
effective the close of business March 15, 1967. 

677 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
0? Gov, 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/23/67 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens Fidelity Bank . 
and Trust Company, 
Louisville, Kentucky. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to August 23, 1967, the time within ^hich 
Citizens Fidelity Bank and Trust Company, Louisville, 
Kentucky, may establish a branch at the Medical Towers 
South Building on the southwest corner of the intersection 
of Floyd and Gray Streets, Louisville, Kentucky. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

678 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• P THE 
Item NO. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/23/67 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967. 
Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
York, New York. 
10015 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of January 31, 1967, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
^>000 additional shares, par value Mexican Pesos 100 per share, of 
Cfedito Bursatil, S. A., Mexico, D. F., Mexico, at a cost of approxi-
mately US$288,000, provided such stock is acquired within one year 
° m the date of this letter. 
In this connection, the Board also approves the purchase 
holding of such shares in excess of 10 per cent of your Corpora-
tor's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
investments of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of 
New York, and Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, will 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the gulde-
n s established under thfe voluntary foreign credit restraint effort 
now i n 
effect and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
i e s contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

679 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
2/23/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967. 
^nufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, 
Wall Street, 
York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 31, 1967, 
r®£erring to the Board's letter of January 26, 1966, which granted 
consent to your Corporation to purchase and hold 4,000 shares of 
Il*versiones Abancay, S. A., Lima, Peru, provided such shares were 
acquired within one year from, the date of the Board's letter. You 
state that your Corporation has acquired 2,000 shares at a cost of 
US$74 ,800 and that the balance of the investment is subject to 
future call. As requested in your letter of January 31, 1967, the 
®0ard of Governors extends to January 26, 1968, the time within 
which your Corporation may acquire the remaining 2,000 shares of 
*nversiones Abancay, S, A., at a cost of approximately US$75,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

680 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
2/23/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967 
Mr. Earle 0. Latham, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
Dear Mr. Latham: 
This refers to your letter of January 26, 1967, and 
its accompanying schedule regarding penalties in the total 
amount of $3,033.66 incurred by The Home National Bank and 
Trust Company, Meriden, Connecticut. These penalties were 
caused by deficiencies in the bank's required reserves for all 
but one of the biweekly reserve computation periods between 
May 12 and December 21, 1966. 
It is noted that after receiving the latest amend-
ments to Regulations D and Q, the member bank inquired about 
the deposit status of five-year, 5 per cent savings bonds it 
had been selling since May 2, 1966, and was notified by your 
Bank that deposits resulting from the sale of these bonds should 
be considered demand deposits. Your Bank's reasons were that 
the bonds could be purchased by businesses and corporations, 
could bear 5 per cent interest if held to maturity, and could 
be redeemed without notice (although the member bank reserved 
the right to require a 30-day written notice), and therefore 
they did not meet requirements of Regulations D and Q for 
classification as savings or time deposits. It is understood 
the member bank immediately notified all holders of the bonds 
that effective December 30, 1966, a 30-day written notice would 
be required for redemption of the bonds, thus making proceeds 
from the bonds eligible as time deposits from that date. 
In the circumstances, the Board concurs in your Bank's 
recommendation and authorizes your Bank to waive assessment of 
penalties totaling $3,033.66 for 15 of the biweekly reserve 
computation periods between May 12 and December 21, 1966, as 
shown in the schedule submitted. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

681 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
2/23/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
City National Bank of Birmingham, 
Birmingham, Alabama. 35203. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Board of Governors, acting 
under th6 provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act* 
grants permission to the City National Bank of Birmingham to 
maintain the same reserves against deposits as are required to 
b e maintained by member banks not in a reserve city, effective 
with the first biweekly reserve computation period beginning 
after the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such per-
mission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

682 
T E L E G R A M 
Item No- 6 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
2/23/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
February 23, 1967 
Hickman - Cleveland 
Board approves your Bank's proceeding with preparation of detailed 
Plans and specifications for new building for Cincinnati Branch on 
basis of preliminary plans submitted with your letter of October 5, 
OD> as modified by revisions described in your letter of February 9, 
^67, jt is noted that the revised plans are in accord with 
a§reements reached at the January 27 meeting of representatives of 
Board and the Cleveland Reserve Bank. 
^°ard also approves termination of leases in and demolition of 
Schmidt Building as outlined in your February 9 letter. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 

683 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
2/23/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Joseph B. Hall, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hall: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Walter H. MacDonald, First Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, at the rate of $27,500 
Per annum, effective March 1, 1967. This is the rate 
fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in your letter 
of January 12, 1967. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

684 
BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
OF THE 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/23/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20SS1 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 23, 1967 
Louis J. Dibrell, Esq., 
Dibrell, Dibrell & Greer, 
American National Building, 
Galveston, Texas. 77550 
Re: The Moody Foundation 
Dear Mr. Dibrell: 
This refers to the requests, in your letters of 
February 3 and February 14, 1967, for an extension of time until 
July 1, 1967, for the registration of The Moody Foundation as 
a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act as 
amended. 
Your request for an extension of time for registration 
granted, and The Moody Foundation will be allowed until July 1, 
l967, within which to register with the Board in accordance with 
the requirements of section 5 of the Act. 
The Board has not yet had an opportunity to study the 
substance of the proposal, outlined in your February 3 and 
February 14 letters, relative to The Moody Foundation's intention 
°f divesting itself of its interest in W. L. Moody and Go. After 
the Board has considered the proposal, you will be advised further 
with respect to this matter, including the Board's decision with 
respect to your request for an opportunity to present oral argument. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
AIR MAIL 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

685 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
2/23/67 
A D D R E B B O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E I P Q N O E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 21, 1967 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 16, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Trapier J. Jervay as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
