FR 609 
(feev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 1Q, 1Q7n 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
*. •' 3 i 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

831. 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Thursday, March 19, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
m at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Ma is e1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 

3/19/70 
-2-
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, Noble, and Tuttle, 
Mrs. Duerson, and Miss McCaslin of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Noory of the Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Achor, Donovan, and Kline, and Miss Greene 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. McClellan, Teeter, and Waller, and 
Miss Pratt of the Office of the Controller 
Nassau branch. 
In a memorandum dated March 9, 1970, the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the application of 
Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, for permission to 
establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, be granted. 
Governor Robertson referred to recent Congressional testimony 
in which Mr. Morgenthau, former U.S. District Attorney for the Southern 
District of New York, suggested that foreign branches of United States 
banks were being used as a means of moving funds out of the country 
illegally. 
Governor Robertson expressed concern that misuse might be 
made of Nassau branches, which were rapidly increasing in number, were 
authorized more or less automatically by the Board,and did not involve 
the usual type of branch operation. He suggested that a review of the 
whole process be undertaken. 
There followed discussion of the manner in which activities 
Were conducted at the Nassau branches and the means available for check-
ing on those operations, including the question whether sufficient 
information was obtainable by examiners from head office records. There 

00 
3/19/70 
-10-
was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that those who had 
worked most closely with functions in the foreign banking area review 
the situation and bring back to the Board for consideration a procedural 
• ' X 
* 
recommendation that would deal, among other points, with the question of 
the adequacy of head office records. 
The application of Republic National Bank was then approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. A copy 
of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
Activities of foreign subsidiaries. With a memorandum dated 
March 11, 1970, the Legal Division and the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation submitted proposed interpretations of Regulations K (Corpora-
tions Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve 
Act) and M (Foreign Activities of National Banks) the intent of which 
was to make known to Edge and "agreement" corporations and member banks 
generally the conclusions reached by the Board after considering a 
recent 
case in which an Edge corporation requested permission to obtain 
control of a foreign bank and asked for relief from certain conditions. 
The effect of the interpretations, broadly stated, would be (1) to 
suspend conditions making sections 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regula-
tion K applicable to any foreign subsidiary now held or hereafter acquired 
by a member bank or Edge or "agreement" corporation, and (2) to suspend, 
within certain limitations, conditions preventing underwriting and 
dealing in securities abroad by foreign subsidiaries of member banks or 
Edge or "agreement" corporations. 

834 
3/19/70 
-10-
Governor Robertson agreed that actions taken with respect to 
individual applications should be made known and applied generally. 
However, he questioned the propriety of making interpretations that 
•X 
1 
would permit a foreign subsidiary to engage in activities not permis-
sible to the parent Edge or "agreement" corporation, and said he there-
fore would vote against the issuance of the proposed interpretations. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that further discussion of the 
matter be deferred until such time as Governor Mitchell could be present 
in view of his expressed interest in matters of this kind. 
In addition, 
he suggested that the problem be considered in conjunction with amend-
ments to the general consent provisions of Regulation K which the staff 
hoped to have in a form to present to the Board in the near future. 
This suggestion contemplated that the interpretations might be replaced 
by amendments to Regulations K and M. 
Accordingly, a decision on the proposed interpretations was 
deferred. 
City National Corporation. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on March 5, 1970, of the application 
of City National Corporation, Miami, Florida, to become a bank hold-
ing company through the acquisition of shares of City National Bank 
of Miami, City National Bank of Miami Beach, and City National Bank 
of Coral Gables had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 

3/19/70 
-5-
United Bancorp of Maine, Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on March 12, 1970, of the application 
of United Bancorp of Maine, Portland, Maine, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of Norway National Bank, 
Norway, Maine, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3. 
Tennessee National Bancshares. 
In December 1969 the Board 
approved the application of Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc., Mary-
ville, Tennessee, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Blount National Bank 
of Maryville, The First National Bank of Oneida, and Merchants & Farmers 
Bank, Greenback. 
Prior to the issuance of an order and statement, 
applicant filed an amendment to its application, requesting approval of 
the acquisition of more than 50 per cent (instead of 80 per cent or more) 
of the voting shares of Merchants & Farmers Bank. 
In a memorandum 
dated March 16, 1970, the Legal Division expressed the view that approval 
of the application (which had been republished) continued to be warranted. 
Attached to the memorandum were a proposed order and a statement. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the documents, as 
issued, are attached under Item No. 4. 

00 
3/19/70 
-10-
Union Bank. On February 12, 1970, the Board approved the appli-
cation of Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, to acquire assets and 
assume liabilities of Commonwealth National Bank, San Francisco. 
Subse-
quently, a letter was received from a minority shareholder of Common-
wealth alleging that the proposed acquisition agreement did not treat 
minority shareholders of Commonwealth fairly. 
In a memorandum dated March 18, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Legal Division reported on an investigation of 
the charge, which centered around potential loss from transactions involv 
ing Morlan Pacific Corporation, San Francisco, which owned 96 per cent 
of Commonwealth's outstanding stock, particularly a proposed repurchase 
by Commonwealth of certain loans and real estate previously sold to 
Morlan. Morlan had now offered to make a certain payment to cover the 
estimated loss factor in the repurchased loans and real estate, and the 
State Bank Superintendent reportedly was planning no further action. 
A proposed order and a statement reflecting Board approval were 
attached to the memorandum, as well as a proposed letter to the minority 
stockholder. The staff was satisfied that an equitable offer had been 
made and recommended that the order and statement be released. 
Governor Brimmer noted that, while an adjustment was being made 
in light of the protest of the minority shareholder, this fact was not 
reflected in the proposed order and statement. He inquired as to the 
responsibility of the Board in this respect. 

837 
3/19/70 
-10-
Members of the staff expressed the view that the responsibility 
of the Board, in a matter of this kind, was to satisfy itself that the 
terms of a transaction coming before it for approval involved no basic 
injustice to minority stockholders. 
In this respect the staff was now 
satisfied. 
If this were not the case, the Board should pursue the 
matter further. Minority shareholders, it was noted, had the options 
of accepting, rejecting, or taking the proposal to court. 
After further discussion Governor Robertson stated that without 
question there had been failure in the first instance to disclose an 
essential fact. However, the proposal had now been modified, as evi-
denced by a letter received by the State Superintendent of Banks, so 
that an additional payment would be made from which the minority stock-
holders would benefit. 
In the circumstances, he saw no reason to refer 
to the matter in the Board's statement. The Board would be on record 
through its letter to the minority stockholder who protested that the 
matter had been investigated. He (Governor Robertson) was satisfied 
in his own mind that the minority shareholders were not being treated 
unfairly. 
Other members of the Board concurred, except that Governor Brimmer 
registered his concern that there had been a concealment of information 
in respect to the repurchase of assets which he thought reflected on 
the parties to the application. 
The issuance of the order and statement was then authorized. 

838 
3/19/70 
-10-
Cop ies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 5 
A 
copy of the letter sent to the minority shareholder is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
— 
Wyoming Bancorporation. 
A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated March 6, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Wyoming Bancorp-
oration, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of shares of Cheyenne National Bank, East Cheyenne National 
Bank, and First Cheyenne State Bank, all of Cheyenne, and Stock Growers' 
Bank 
of Wheatland. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
It was understood that a concurring statement by Governor Robertson also 
would be prepared in view of his concern over the tie-in between banking 
f 
i 
. 
S 
and nonbanking interests, which he felt should be a matter of continuing 
review. Central Colorado Bancorp. A memorandum from the Division of 
t £ 
Supervision and Regulation dated March 13, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Central 
Colorado Bancorp, Inc., Colorado Springs, Colorado, to become a bank hold-
ing company through the acquisition of shares of The Central Colorado 
Bank and The Academy Boulevard Bank, both of Colorado Springs, in addi-
tion to those of one bank already controlled. The recommendations were 
favorable. 

3/19/70 
-9-
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Fair Credit Reporting Act. With a memorandum dated March 17, 
1970, 
Mr. Cardon submitted a draft of letter to the Chairman of the 
House Committee on Banking and Currency relating to H.R. 16340, a bill 
to protect individuals against dissemination of inaccurate or misleading 
information bearing on their creditworthiness, insurability, or employ-
ability. The proposed report would reflect a position comparable to 
that taken by the Board last year in connection with S. 823, a similar 
but less comprensive bill. 
Among other provisions, H.R. 16340 would require that the Board 
prescribe implementing regulations. 
The report would urge that, if it 
was determined the proposed legislation was necessary, the legislation 
be designed so as to eliminate the need for implementing regulations 
(as was done 
in the case of the Senate bill) or that this responsibility 
be assigned to an agency more familiar with consumer problems. 
Discussion revealed unanimous support on the part of Board mem-
bers for the view that responsibility for issuing regulations or other-
wise administering the proposed legislation should not be lodged in the 
Federal Reserve. 
Suggestions were made that the letter be strengthened 
in this respect. 
It was understood that the letter would be reviewed 
in the light of these comments and sent in a final form satisfactory 
to Chairman Burns. 
i 
I 
I 

00 
3/19/70 
-10-
A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Patman is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Budget performance report. 
In a memorandum dated February 25, 
1970, the Office of the Controller commented on an attached 1969 Program 
Budget Performance Report and requested approval of overexpenditures in 
various budget accounts in the amounts indicated in Schedule D of the 
report. 
(A copy of the report has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Governor Sherrill noted that the report was the first attempt 
to review Board expenditures in terms of programs. The overexpenditures 
in question resulted principally from functions approved by the Board 
during the budget year without a corresponding increase in available 
funds. A system was being designed for a midyear evaluation of expendi-
tures in order to avoid such overexpenditures in the future. 
The budget report was accepted and the specified overexpenditures 
were approved. 
Postal strike. Attention was called to the possible effects of 
the New York City postal strike on the banking and financial system, 
particularly if the strike should be prolonged or should become wide-
spread throughout the country. 
It was understood that the staff would 
follow the situation closely, and in particular would keep in touch with 
the Federal Reserve Banks in an effort to determine particular problems 
and possible remedial actions, and that the members of the Board would 
be available in case there was need to act on staff recommendations later 
during the day in the light of developments. 

SOI 
3/19/70 
-11-
Governmental Securities Committee. 
It was understood that avail-
able members of the Board would meet with the Governmental Securities 
Committee of the Investment Bankers Association on April 28, 1970. Some 
members indicated that they would be attending a conference at the 
Brookings Institution on that day in connection with review of a book 
being written by Professor Lee Bach. Chairman Burns suggested that 
those members prepare a summary of the proceedings for the benefit of 
the other members of the Board. 
The meeting then recessed and the Board reconvened in the Board 
Room at 4:45 p.m. Board member attendance was the same as at the morn-
ing 
session. 
From the staff Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Molony, Coyne, 
Nichols, Hexter, Farrell, Frederic Solomon, and Kiley were present 
along with Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, and Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation. 
Blanket extensions of time. There was presented for the Board's 
consideration a draft of press statement that would indicate that in 
view of the emergency situation created in New York and some other areas 
by the interruption of postal service, stock exchanges and the National 
Association of Securities Dealers could grant, subject to certain condi-
tions, blanket extensions of time for brokers and dealers to obtain 
payment from customers affected by the work stoppage. 
In explaining the reasons for and the effect of the proposed 
announcement, Miss Hart stated that staffs of the Securities and Exchange 

S02 
3/19/70 
-12-
Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, the New 
York Stock Exchange, and the American Stock Exchange all considered 
such action highly desirable. 
In the course of the discussion that followed, Chairman Burns 
talked by telephone with the Postmaster General and reported that the 
end of the strike did not appear to be as yet in sight. 
The Board then approved unanimously the issuance of a press 
release in the form attached as Item No. 8, along with a telegram to 
the Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached under the same item 
number. 
There followed a report by Mr. Farrell on the basis of conver-
sations he had had with all Federal Reserve Banks concerning plans 
being made to permit continuation of the orderly clearance of checks. 
In this connection Chairman Burns expressed the view that the primary 
objective, in the present situation, should be to preserve the integrity 
, 
If 
• : ; 
. . 
. 
. 
of the financial system and that this should transcend consideration of 
distinctions between services normally rendered by Federal Reserve Banks 
to member as opposed to nonmember banks. There was general agreement 
with this comment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

¥J3 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
3/19/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C O R R ES P • N O E N C E 
TO THE BDARD 
March 19, 1970 
Republic National Bank of Dallas, 
P. 0. Box 5961, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regula-
tion M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. In view of the special character of this opera-
tion, the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing ob-
servation and review by the Board, and after due notice may be with-
drawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the 
condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be 
promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of 
operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Nassau. 

Republic National Bank of Dallas -2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regu-
lation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject 
to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions is to al-
low foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United 
States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a defi-
nite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maxi-
mum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

905 
Item No. 2 
3/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D# C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
CITY NATIONAL BANK CORPORATION, 
1 
Miami, Florida, 
' 
for approval of action to become a bank ' 
holding company through the acquisition 1 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting 
' 
shares of City National Bank of Miami, 
1 
Miami, Florida; City National Bank of 
1 
Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida; and 
1 
City National Bank of Coral Gables, 
1 
Coral Gables, Florida. 
• 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by City National Bank Corporation, 
Miami, Florida, for the Board!s prior approval of action whereby 
applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
°f 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of City National Bank of 
H i a mi, Miami, Florida; City National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, 
Fl 
ori<Ia; and City National Bank of Coral Gables, Coral Gables, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice to the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application 

906 
- 2 -
and requested his viex-7S and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application, under the name City 
National Corporation, which name was subsequently changed to City National 
Bank Corporation, x-/as published in the Federal Register on January 15, 1970 
(35 Federal Register 558), which provided an opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views with respect to the proposed trans-
action. A copy of the application was forwarded to the United States 
Department of Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired and all those received have been considered by the 
Board. 
XT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
t he thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
, 
Deputy Secretary. 

907. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
VCITY NATIONAL BANK CORPORATION 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
City National Bank Corporation, Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), has 
filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of City National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida ("Miami Bank"); 
city National Bank of Miami Beach, Miami Beach, Florida ("Beach Bank"); 
and City National Bank of Coral Gables, Coral Gables, Florida ("Coral 
Gables Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and requested his views 
and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
ar*y part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

908 
-2-
acquisitiorl, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction, - The 15 
registered bank holding companies in Florida, 10 of which are the 
largest banking organizations in the State, control 41 per cent of the 
deposits held by all banks in the State,- 
The acquisition of Miami 
Bank (the State's eleventh largest banking organization with $180 million 
deposits), Beach Bank ($78 million deposits), and Coral Gables Bank 
($33 million deposits) would result in Applicant's becoming Florida's 
seventh largest bank holding company and banking organization, with 
control of 2.5 per cent of the total State deposits. 
All of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in Dade County. 
Miami Bank is the second largest of 65 banks in the Miami Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"). Beach Bank and Coral Gables Bank 
i/ Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 30, 1969, refer 
t o insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

909 
-3" 
are respectively the seventh and the twenty-third largest banks in this 
area. Miami Bank is located in downtown Miami and its service area en-
compasses the major portion of the Miami SMSA. Both of Applicant's other 
proposed subsidiaries, Beach Bank and Coral Gables Bank, are located 
within this area, 10 miles northeast and six miles southwest of Miami 
Bank, respectively* 
Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant would become the 
second largest banking organization in the market, with 11 per cent of 
total market deposits. It would, however, be considerably smaller than 
the largest banking organization, a bank holding company which controls 
26 per cent of total area deposits. The third largest banking organiza-
tion, a bank holding company with three area subsidiaries, controls 9 per 
cent of area deposits. Applicant would be the sixth bank holding company 
in the Miami SMSA. 
Although the three subject banks are located within the same 
Market, there is no significant competition among them. Miami Bank and 
Beach Bank have been affiliated through common individual ownership for 
over 20 years, and those two banks have been affiliated with Coral Gables 
Bank since organization of the latter in 1956. A small number of share-
holders holds 96 per cent of the stock of Miami Bank, and the same persons 
a*so own 67 per cent of the shares of Beach Bank and 58 per cent of the 
shares of Coral Gables Bank. The similarity in names of the three banks 
reflects their common operation, as does the fact that the three banks 
share several common directors. The public image presented by the banks 
that of a united "City National Group", rather than that of competing banks. 

910. 
Even in the absence of the affiliation among the three subject 
banks, it does not appear likely that the competitive influence of any 
one of them on any of the others would significantly add to the overall 
level of competition in any area. Each of the subject banks faces strong 
competition from one or more larger banks more proximate to its location 
than either of its affiliates. The amount of deposits derived by Miami 
Bank from the immediate areas served by Beach Bank and Coral Gables 
Bank is, in each case, equal to less than 10 per cent of that held by 
banks located within such areas, and the two smaller banks do not appear 
to exert a significant competitive influence on each other, or on banks 
located in downtown Miami. 
There is no evidence indicating a likelihood of disaffiliation 
°f the three banks in the future; on the contrary, the length of time 
for which the relationship has endured and the fact that the extent of 
common ownership has increased, rather than decreased, over the years, 
make such an eventuality appear unlikely. In addition, although 
disaffiliate 
n would likely lead to some increased competition among 
the banks, it does not appear, for reasons earlier discussed, that a 
significant 
increase in the overall level of competition would result. 
In summary, it does not appear that the likely affect of 
consummation of the proposal on competition, actual and potential, 
Presents a significant bar to approval of the present application. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 

311. 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create 
a monopoly in any part of the countryc 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities. Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, its 
management competent, and its prospects, which would be dependent on 
those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The management of each of the proposed subsidiary banks is 
satisfactory. The capital position of each of the three proposed 
subsidiaries is somewhat below desirable levels. Applicant proposes 
to remedy this condition, in the event of approval of the application, 
through a public offering of common stock. This would be to some extent 
facilitated by consummation of the proposal, in view of the likely greater 
marketability of Applicant's stock, as compared with that of the banks. 
Prospects of the banks, which appear favorable in any event, would be 
improved by the proposed action. 
Considerations regarding the banking factors lend some weight 
toward approval of the application. 
• 
f i It 
V/ >. 
win--.. 
, 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the area are being adequately served by present banking 

facilities and, in view of the present relationship among the thtee banks, 
would be little affected by consummation of the present proposal. However, 
some operating efficiencies of indirect benefit to the public would likely 
result, loan participations among the three banks would to some extent 
be facilitated, and international banking services of Miami Bank would 
be made available to customers of the other two. 
Considerations relating the convenience and needs of the areas 
involved are consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 19, 1970. 

913. 
Item No. 3 
3/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED BANCORP OF MAINE, 
1 
Portland, Maine, 
1 
for approval of action to become a 
' 
bank holding company through the 
1 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
' 
of the voting shares of Norway 
1 
National Bank, Norway, Maine, 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Bancorp of 
Maine, Portland, Maine, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Norway National Bank, Norway, 
Maine. Applicant presently owns all but directors' qualifying shares of 
Canal National Bank, Portland, Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 

914 
- 2 -
and requested his views and recommendation. The Acting Comptroller 
.» 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 16, 1969 (34 Federal Register 16566), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

915. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
UNITED BANCORP OF MAINE, PORTLAND, MAINE, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
United Bancorp of Maine, Portland, Maine ("Applicant"), has 
filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become 
a bank holding company. Applicant, which presently owns all but 
directors1 qualifying shares of Canal National Bank, Portland, Maine 
("Canal Bank"), would become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of 00 per cent or more of the voting shares of Norway National 
Bank, Norway, Maine ("Norway Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Acting Comptroller recom-
mended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 

any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Maine, which include all three of the 
1/ 
Statefs registered bank holding companies, control 79 per cent 
of 
State deposits and about 70 per cent of its banking offices. Canal Bank 
($33.1 million deposits), Applicant's only present subsidiary, is the 
State's sixth largest banking organization, with 7.7 per cent of 
deposits and 8.5 per cent of banking offices. Applicant's acquisition 
°f Norway Bank ($11.1 million deposits) would create the State's third 
largest bank holding company and fifth largest banking organization, 
controlling 8.7 per cent of deposits and 9.2 per cent of banking offices. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect all holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

3.L7 
-3-
Canal Bank is the smallest of three banks based in Portland, 
Cumberland County (population 103,000). It has 23 offices, 14 of which 
are located in Cumberland County; its nine other offices are located in 
Androscoggin, Sagadahoc, and Lincoln Counties, which adjoin Cumberland 
County to the northeast, and in York County, which adjoins to the south-
west. In addition to the two other Portland banks, one other bank, with 
$15 million in deposits, is headquartered in Cumberland County; that 
bank is a subsidiary of a bank holding company which is the third largest 
banking organization in llaine. The lead bank in the State's largest 
banking organization operates a branch in the county. 
Norway Bank is the only bank headquartered in Oxford County, 
and has a branch located in northwest Cumberland County, near the Oxford-
Cumberland County line. Oxford County is a thinly populated region 
(population 44,000), characterized by small farms, residences, recrea-
tional areas, and light manufacturing. Norway Bank competes with five 
offices of the two largest Portland banks and one office of a much larger 
Lewiston bank. 
The closest office of Norway Bank to a Canal Bank office is 
over 20 miles distant. To some extent, the two banks might be regarded 
as reasonably convenient alternative sources of service for customers 
located in northwest Cumberland County. The significance of that compe-
titio n is limited, however, because both of the larger Portland banks 
have offices located in that immediate area, while Canal Bank does not. 
Respite the fact that each bank could legally branch into the adjacent 

818 
-2-
county in which the other is located, the possibility of potential 
competition between the two banks appears remote because of the economic 
unattractiveness of a large portion of the territory intervening between 
their present offices, and in view of the past non-converging branching 
patterns of each bank. The primary competitive effect of approval of 
the application is reasonably foreseen to be the strengthening of compe-
tition with the State!s larger banks and banking organizations. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, and 
would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant and each of the banks is in sound financial condition, with 
satisfactory management and favorable prospects. Norway Bank's prospects 
Would to some extent be improved by the additional competitive strength 
which it is likely to achieve as a subsidiary of Applicant. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Portland 
is the largest city and the fastest growing metropolitan area in the 
State of Maine, as well as the State's major industrial and commercial 
center. More than 15 per cent of the State's residents live in Greater 

Portland's 13 communities, within a radius of 18 miles of Portland Harbor. 
Principal industries of Portland include paper, shoe, and electronic parts 
manufacturing, oil storage, and transportation. Banking needs of the area 
appear to be adequately met by banks located there, and the area would be 
little affected by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
The town of Norway is located 56 miles northwest of Portland and 
20 miles west of Lewiston. The economy of the Norway area is stable, but 
appears to have little growth potential. In addition to Norway Bank, the 
area's banking needs are served by branches of the two largest Portland-
headquartered banks. Affiliation with Applicant would enable Norway Bank 
to be more competitive in providing the area with complete trust services 
and larger loans. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved weigh somewhat in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
action would be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
March 19, 1970. 

820. 
Item No. 4 
3/19/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
TENNESSEE NATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC., 
MaryviHe, Tennessee, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Blount National Bank of 
Maryvilie, Maryville, and The First 
National Bank of Oneida, Oneida, and 
more than 50 per cent of the voting 
shares of Merchants & Farmers Bank, 
Greenback, all located in the State of 
Tennessee. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Tennessee National 
Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, for the Board's prior approval 
°f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Blount National Bank of Maryville, Maryville, and The First National 
Sank of Oneida, Oneida, and more than 50 per cent of the voting shares 
°f Merchants & Farmers Bank, Greenback; all three banks are located in 
State of Tennessee. 

321 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and the Tennessee Superintendent of Banks, and requested their views and 
recommendation. Neither objected to approval of the proposed transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 6, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17972), and notice 
°f an amendment to the application was published in the Federal Register 
on February 27, 1970 (35 Federal Register 3346). At both times, an 
opportunity was provided for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
(SEAIA 
Deputy Secretary. 

<qo 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
TENNESSEE NATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC., MARYVILLE, TENNESSEE 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
°f action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Blount National Bank 
Maryville, Maryville ("Maryville Bank"); and The First National Bank 
°f Oneida, Oneida ("Oneida Bank"); and more than 50 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of Merchants & Farmers Bank, Greenback ("M&F"). All three 
banks are located in the State of Tennessee. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory 
_ A s 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
Receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Tennessee Superintendent of Banks, and requested their views and 
^commendations. Neither objected to approval of the proposed transaction. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
at the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

Q PI 
- 2 -
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
• V'. 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - There are 
Presently two bank holding companies headquartered in Tennessee, which 
control, respectively, 6 per cent and .8 per cent of the State's total 
d e p o s i t s x n addition, two out-of-State holding companies each operate 
a Tennessee bank, and together control 1.6 per cent of total State deposits. 
The State's largest bank holding company, Hamilton National Associates, 
Incorporated, is its fifth largest banking organization. Consummation of 
the present proposal would create Tennessee's third and smallest bank 
A/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and 
include all bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board to date. 

•3-
holding company, controlling .b per cent of total deposits held by all banks 
in the State. 
Maryville Bank ($25.7 million deposits and four offices) controls 
42 per cent of deposits in Blount County, its primary service area; a 
larger independent bank headquartered in Maryville ($36 million deposits 
and two offices) is the only competitor within this area, which has a 
Population of 64,000. 
M&F Bank ($3.5 million deposits) is the smallest of four banks 
in Loudon County. Two of the other banks in the County are subsidiaries 
o f the State's largest bank holding company. M&F Bank's only office is 
in Greenback, in the southeast corner of the county, and is separated from 
the remainder of the county, and the other three banks located therein, 
by the Tennessee and Little Tennessee Rivers. The bank serves portions 
o f contiguous Blount County and Monroe County, as well as the southeast 
Portion of Loudon County, and is the only bank located in this area, which 
h a s a population of 2,000. 
Oneida Bank ($8.9 million deposits and two offices) is the 
largest of three independent banks in Scott County, it serves an area 
Wh*ch includes all of Scott County and a small strip of bordering McCreary 
On 
u"ty, Kentucky. In addition to the two other Scott County banks, one 
bra*ch of a Kentucky bank is located within this area, which has a population 
0 f 20,000. 
Oneida Bank is located about 70 miles north of the other two 
Pr°Posed subsidiaries, with the intervening area consisting largely of 

•3-
mountainous terrain, and does not compete to any extent with either of the 
other banks. The areas served by Maryville Bank and M&F Bank overlap 
slightly, hut the two banks do not compete to any significant extent; 
neither derives as much as 2 per cent of its deposits from the area 
served by the other. The closest office of Maryville Bank and M&F Bank 
are 15 miles apart. The development of future competition among the 
three banks is limited by State law, which restricts branching to the 
county in which the head office of the bank is located. 
The principal competitive effect foreseen as a probable result 
°f consummation of Applicant's proposal is an increase in competition 
in the local areas involved, particularly to the extent that it would 
facilitate branching by M&F Bank into other portions of Loudon County. 
°nly Oneida Bank is large in relation to other banks in its service 
a r ea. All competitors of the subject banks are viable institutions, 
and it does not appear that there would be undue adverse consequences 
°n competing banks in any relevant area. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
knsinoss of banking in any part of the United States, and would not restrain 
trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in 
ai*y section of the country. 

S26 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant 
was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities. Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, its 
management competent, and its prospects, which would be dependent upon 
those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The financial condition and managements of the three proposed 
subsidiary banks are satisfactory. Prospects of Oneida Bank, while not 
unfavorable, are limited by its location in the economically depressed 
Appalachia area. Prospects of M&F Bank and Maryville Bank appear .. 
favorable. All three banks would to some extent be aided by the proposed 
affiliation. Applicant proposes to issue additional stock in the near 
future to supplement the capital of the proposed subsidiaries, as needed. 
Considerations regarding the banking factors weigh somewhat in 
favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Through 
Maryville Bank, Applicant proposes to make trust services, as well as 
credit card service and a wider variety of loans, available to customers 
of the two smaller proposed subsidiaries. The proposed affiliation would 
offer economies of scale which, Applicant believes, would warrant an 
internal computer operation and the employment of personnel specializing 
in agricultural and industrial development. Lending capability of the 
three banks would be expanded by the greater facility with which loan 
Participation could be arranged among them. 

327. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved lend some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
• i : 
.• i 
March 
19, 1970. 

838 
Item No. 5 
3/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
i • 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D cC 0 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
UNION BANK 
1 
for approval of acquisition of assets of1 
Commonwealth National Bank 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Union Bank, Los 
Angeles, California, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
for the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets and assump-
tion of deposit liabilities of Commonwealth National Bank, San Francisco, 
California, and, as an incident thereto, Union Bank has applied, under 
section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), for the Board's 
Prior approval of the establishment by that bank of the seven offices 
°f Commonwealth National Bank as branches. Notice of the proposed 
Acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities, in form 
Approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 

229. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby are 
approved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption of 
deposit liabilities and establishment of branches shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not votings Governor Brimmer. 
/signed/ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

830. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNION BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
COMMONWEALTH NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
Union Bank, Los Angeles, California ("Union Bank"), with 
total deposits of $1.4 billion, has applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), for the Board's prior approval of its acquisi-
tion of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of Commonwealth 
National Bank, San Francisco, California ("Commonwealth Bank"), which 
has total deposits of $58%7 million.-^ As an incident to the transaction, 
the seven offices of Commonwealth Bank would become branches of Union 
Bank, increasing the number of its offices to 25. 
Competition. - Union Bank operates its head office in Los 
Angeles, 16 regional branch offices in Southern California, and one 
northern California regional branch office in the City of Oakland, 
Alameda County, Union Bank ranks as the seventh largest bank in California 
and holds approximately 3.1 per cent of the State's total commercial bank 
deposits. Commonwealth Bank operates its main office and three branches 
in San Francisco, two branch offices in the San Francisco Bay Area in 
1/ Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 

931 
-2-
Pleasant Hill (Contra Costa County) and San Rafael (Marin County), and a 
seventh branch office in Santa Rosa (Sonoma County) which is 52 miles 
north of San Francisco. It holds 0,1 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits for California and ranks as the 33rd largest bank in the 
State. The resulting bank would control 3.2 per cent of the State's 
total deposits, would remain its seventh largest bank, and would operate 
25 of the more than 2,900 banking offices in the State. 
The principal effect of the transaction would be felt in the 
City and County of Can Francisco wherein Union Bank has no present repre-
sentation. There are offices of 19 banks in this city and county area 
which hold deposits of approximately $7.7 billion, of which the five 
largest banks in the State hold more than 88 per cent. Commonwealth 
Bank holds approximately 0.6 per cent of the total deposits for this 
area and is the 12th largest bank. 
The nearest office of Union Bank to Commonwealth Bank is its 
sole office in northern California, located in Oakland, 12 miles east 
of Commonwealth Bank's main office in San Francisco. The two offices, 
separated by San Francisco Bay, serve separate areas, and there is no 
significant competition between them. Commonwealth Bank also has a 
Pleasant Hill office located 19 miles northeast of Oakland, and there is 
°nly minor competition between this office and Union Bank's Oakland 
branch. The area between Oakland and Pleasant Hill is served by nurceroasj 
branches of the largest banks in the State. Union Bank holds only 4.0 
Per cent of the total deposits for the Oakland area and Commonwealth 

ov 
Bank holds less than 0*1 per cent of such deposits. There is no 
significant competition betueen other offices of Commonwealth Bank and 
Union Bank. 
Under California lav?, Union Bank, with supervisory approval, 
could establish a de novo branch in San Francisco or in any of the 
other areas served by Commonwealth. Likewise, Commonwealth Bank could 
establish a de novo branch in Los Angeles or in any of the other areas 
served by Union Bank. Consequently, there is some potential for direct 
competition between the banks through branching which would be eliminated 
by consummation of this proposal. 
The effect of the proposed transaction on competition would 
be only slightly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Union Bank are reasonably satisfactory. 
Since the latter 
part of 1968 the deposits of Commonwealth Bank have 
decreased and loan losses have been heavy. Hew senior management has 
been employed recently and some improvement in earnings is projected. 
Consummation of this acquisition by Union Bank would alleviate 
Commonwealth Bankfs problems, and the banking factors with respect to 
Union Bank would remain essentially unchanged. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The principal effect 
of the acquisition on banking convenience and needs would be limited to 
the area served by Commonwealth Bank, This area has access to complete 
banking services provided by numerous offices of the largest banks in 

S33 
-4-
the State. Consequently, no new banking services would be introduced 
into the area. However, present customers of Commonwealth Bank would 
benefit substantially from the additional services resulting from its 
acquisition by Union Bank. 
Summary anc conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
slightly adverse effect of this transaction on competition would be 
offset by the assistance it would provide in alleviating the problems 
of Commonwealth Ben!; and by its benefit to the banking convenience and 
needs of the area served by Commonwealth Bank. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
March 19, 1970, 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 6 
3/19/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P d N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
March 19, 1970 
Mr. R0 So Zimmerman, 
Vice President, 
Wardean, Inc., 
San Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Zimmerman; 
Reference is made to your letter of February 9, 1970, 
addressed to the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System regarding the acquisition of Commonwealth National 
Bank, San Francisco, by Union Bank, Los Angeles. Your letter was 
sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and it is under-
stood that officers of that Bank met with you February 26, 1970, 
to discuss your letter. This matter was discussed by the Reserve 
Bank with the State Superintendent of Banks, the Regional Adminis-
trator of National Banks, as well as officers of Commonwealth 
National Bank and Union Bank. It is further understood that Morlan 
Pacific Company, the majority stockholder of Commonwealth National 
Bank, has directed a letter to the State Superintendent of Banks 
indicating that an adjustment is to be made in the price minority 
shareholders of Commonwealth National Bank will receive for their 
stock upon consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Attached for your information is a copy of the Board's 
Order and Statement approving the acquisition of Commonwealth 
National Bank, San Francisco, by Union Bank, Los Angeles. 
Very truly yours 9 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No 
3/19/70 
March 20, 1970. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for the views 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on H. R. 
16340, the Fair Credit Reporting Act. Broadly speaking, the bill 
seeks to protect individuals against dissemination of inaccurate 
or misleading information bearing on their creditworthiness, 
insurability, or employability. To this end, it establishes a 
number of statutory rules, to be observed by reporting agencies 
and those to whom they furnish reports, relating to access to 
files, purposes for which reports may be furnished, kinds of 
information that may be supplied, and methods of keeping the 
information up to date and accurate. In addition to civil 
liabilities and criminal penalties for specified violations, the 
bill provides for administrative enforcement procedures similar 
to those established for Truth in Lending, and directs the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to prescribe imple-
menting regulations. 
The Board can offer only limited help to your Committee 
in considering this legislation. In carrying out our responsi-
bilities, we have virtually no contact with the reporting agencies 
that would be regulated under the bill, so we know little about 
their procedures or their problems. 
Board members, like Members of Congress and their 
constituents, have experienced annoyance and frustration when 
confronted by red tape and computers, in and out of Government. 
We believe all organizations should do their best to make sure 
that on those inevitable occasions when they treat someone 
unfairly, a procedure is available for righting the wrong. We 
understand that many of the business firms that would be covered 
by the proposed legislation have already established such procedur 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
936. 
Whether Federal regulation of such procedures can be expected to 
yield benefits that would justify the costs involved--to taxpayers, 
businesses, and consumers themselves--is a judgment that the Board 
of Governors is not prepared to make. 
We do feel very strongly, however, that if you act 
favorably on this legislation, you should place the responsibility 
for its implementation in some agency other than the Board of 
Governors. The bill as introduced would not only require the 
Board to prescribe implementing regulations, but would also (in 
section 54) direct the Board to make two difficult and subjective 
judgments: whether information in a report is "reasonably 
relevant to the purpose for which it is sought" and if so, 
whether it "constitutes an undue infringement of the individual's 
right to privacy." The Board would be required "upon request" 
to examine the forms, questionnaires, and "other devices" used 
by each consumer reporting agency, and to determine whether they 
meet these two tests. If the Board approves a form, questionnaire, 
or other device, the approval may be revoked if the Board finds 
that any information actually being reported by the agency does 
not meet the two tests. This would seem to require individual 
attention to a virtually unlimited number of factual situations, 
to make the kinds of decisions normally made by courts of law. 
If these issues cannot be settled in court, or if litigation is 
too slow or expensive, Congress may, of course, provide for quasi-
judicial administrative proceeding, with the costs borne by the 
taxpayer rather than the parties to the dispute. But in view of 
the thousands of reporting agencies involved, and the millions of 
reports they file, section 54 could generate a caseload far beyond 
the capacity of the Board. 
We assume that in considering whether legislation is 
necessary, your Committee will not underestimate the importance 
of the collection and disclosure of credit information to the 
work of credit grantors. Such information strongly influences 
the quality of service creditors are able to render to their 
customers and, of course, has obvious bearing on credit risk. 
In weighing the desirability of legislation in this field, care 
should be taken to avoid creating inequities among various classes 
of creditors, impeding the flow and availability of necessary 
credit information, reducing ready access by consumers to credit 
sources, or increasing credit costs. 
On a matter more directly relating to banking a question 
has arisen whether section 35 of the bill might limit an examiner's 
access to information in the files of a bank under examination. We 
assume that you would not intend the section to apply in such a 
situation. 
If that assumption is correct, we recommend that the 
matter be clarified either in the provision, itself, or in the 
committee report if you act favorably on the bill. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
Let me return now to the main point I want to emphasize. 
One of the principal supporters of this bill in the House has 
suggested that someday it may be broadened to enable citizens to 
protect themselves against arbitrary, erroneous, and malicious 
information, no matter who holds it. And this bill is only one of 
a number of proposals pending in Congress to require businesses 
to alter their trade practices in various ways aimed at benefiting 
their customers and employees, actual and prospective. The Federal 
Reserve System was not established for this purpose, and the 
System's performance of its functions in the field of monetary 
policy and bank supervision have not prepared it to assume this 
role. Assignment of such duties would be inconsistent with the 
performance of the System's primary responsibilities. 
As you know, S. 823, the Senate-passed counterpart of 
H. R. 16340, originally provided that the Board should prescribe 
implementing regulations, but this provision was stricken in 
accordance with the Board's recommendation. If you determine that 
this legislation is needed, we strongly urge that you design it, 
as the Senate has, to eliminate the need for implementing 
regulations. 
If, however, you decide that responsibility for 
implementing this legislation shall be vested in an adminis-
trative agency, we believe it is essential that you assign that 
responsibility to an agency more familiar than we are with 
consumer problems and more expert in coping with them. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

838 
Item No. 8 
3/19/70 
For Immediate Release 
March 19, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve Jystem said today 
that in view of the emergency situation created in New York and some other 
areas by the interruption of postal service, stock exchanges and the National 
Association of Securities Dealers may grant blanket extensions of time for 
brokers and dealers to obtain payment from customers affected by the work 
stoppage. 
The Board's Regulation T requires that broker/dealers must obtain 
Payment in a margin account within five full business days after a transaction 
takes place in the account, and must obtain payment in not more than seven 
full business days after a transaction takes place in a cash account. Under 
the regulation, extensions of time for obtaining payment may be granted on an 
individual basis by a committee of a national securities exchange, or of the 
National Association of Securities Dealers, if exceptional circumstances 
^arrant the action. 
The blanket extensions of time contemplated by the Board's action 
would be available in advance where the delay in payment is due to the. 
interruption in postal service and the firm has made every effort to collect 
the amount that is due. The extensions could be granted for not more than 
ten full business days after the emergency has ended. 
Firms would not be required to apply in advance for such extensions 
°f time, but each firm would be required to keep detailed records as to trans-
actions in each customer's account, identifying the date when payment was due 
under Regulation T, and the date when payment was actually received. Copies 
°f these records should be submitted to the appropriate committee of the 
stock exchange or the association within a reasonable time, and the original 
record should be ret-Mnc.d by ( ho l.n.l'er/Hpnl pv for at least two years after 
the extension ends. 
-0~ 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V F SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
March 19, 1970. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
The following is the text of a press release issued by the 
Board at 5:30 
p.m. EST today authorizing the stock exchanges and the 
National Association of Securities Dealers to grant blanket extensions 
of time under Regulation T to broker/dealer firms as to payments from 
customers for transactions in securities. 
(insert text) 
End press release. 
At the time of the airline strike in 1966, the Board 
authorized each Reserve Bank to grant such extensions to broker/ 
dealer firms which did not have access to committees of the exchanges 
the Association. 
Such authority remains in effect, and should be 
e*ercised subject to the guidelines supplied by the Board in its letter 
°f July 18, 1966- 
Copies of the guidelines contained in that letter 
ai:e being sent to your Bank upon request. The last two guidelines, 
doling with repeated applications by the same customer or with 
Respect, to the same trade, which are numbered (9) and (10) in the 
e°Py} are of course not necessarily applicable in the present 
e^cums tances. 
KENYON 
