FR 609 
(
R
ev. 3/70) 
•! 
Minutes for 
September 22, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
i 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Mb 1 
( 
v 
• 
t 
v 
P-H r 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

» > 0 * 
A-,0 * .) 
Minutes of a meeting of members of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System on Tuesday, September 22, 1970. The meeting was 
held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
. u 
. 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at the 
next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present: 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on September 8 and 21, 1970, and by the Federal 
to
 
1
 • 1 1 
' h,y 1.1;Yf» 
''ii 
: d •.••••• ft zo 
%-cvTi? i bai ti .. 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on September 17, 
1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules 

4 u 
9/22/70 
-2-
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Fidelity International Corporation. In a memorandum dated 
September 10, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation pre-
sented a request by Fidelity International Corporation, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, whose wholly-owned subsidiary, The Fidelity International 
Corporation (Bahamas) Limited, had acquired, without Board consent, 87-1/2 
per cent of the shares of Fidusse, S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina, a com-
pany engaged principally in cattle-raising. The Board had subsequently 
denied the Edge corporation the right to continue to hold stock of the 
organization indirectly, unless the holdings were reduced to a non-
controlling interest. Fidelity International Corporation now requested 
that its subsidiary be permitted to retain the shares (which in the 
interim had been reduced to an approximate 58 per cent interest), pro-
vided they 
were placed in a non-voting trust until (1) the holding was 
less than 50 per cent, (2) the business of Fidusse changed to one with a 
financing orientation, or (3) the Board changed its interpretation on 
operational and management activities other than banking or financing 
by Edge corporations. The Division recommended that the subsidiary be 
permitted to continue to hold the stock of Fidusse provided that prior t 
to December 31, 1971, the holding was reduced to an amount that the 
Board did not deem to constitute control, and that pending such reduction 
the stock be placed in a non-voting trust. 

2S77 
9/22/70 
-3-
Comments were made during discussion relating to the problem 
involved in an Edge corporation subsidiary's engaging in activities other 
than banking or financing; a typographical error in the Board's letter 
of consent to the investment in the Bahamian subsidiary that, until 
subsequently corrected, in effect nullified the standard condition 
limiting the activities of the subsidiary; and the likelihood that the 
declared intention of changing the nature of the business of Fidusse to 
financing would be accomplished. Comments also were made on the question 
whether the original stock purchase had or had not reflected an oversight 
of requirements, and it was suggested that further exploration of that 
point with the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia would be appropriate. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the matter was deferred 
pending the availability of additional members of the Board, with the 
understanding that in the meantime the staff would obtain additional 
information through the Reserve Bank, including information on the 
financial consequences of a requirement for disposition of the stock 
of Fidusse. 
Merger and holding company cases. The issuance of the following 
documents was authorized. Copies of the documents are attached under 
the item numbers indicated. 
Order reflecting approval on September 16, 1970, of the 
application of Houston Bank & Trust Company, Houston, 
Texas, to merge Citizens Bank, Houston, Texas. 
(Item 
No. 1). 

S J 8 7 8 
9/22/70 
-4-
Order and statement reflecting approval on August 27, 
1970, upon reconsideration, of the application of Long 
Island Trust Company, Garden City, New York, to merge 
Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New York. 
(Item No. 2). 
Order and statement reflecting approval on August 27, 
1970, of the application of First Arkansas Bankstock 
Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, to become a bank 
holding company. 
(Item No. 3). 
Issuance of the order relating to the Houston Bank & Trust Company 
application was authorized after discussion brought out that, although 
the Texas Commissioner of Banking had not yet given formal approval, he 
intended to act within a few days and would have no objection if the 
Board announced its approval in the interim. It was noted also that 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had not submitted its compet-
itive factor report; prospective changes in the Corporation's report 
form were said to have caused a backlog to develop. 
1 "vi . 
) > , 
' ; r 
' 
... < 
y 
. 
United Banks of Colorado. Draft documents had been distributed 
reflecting approval by majority vote, on August 17, 1970, of the appli-
cation of United Banks of Colorado, Inc. (formerly Denver U.S. Bancorpo-
ration, Inc.), Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The Colorado 
Springs National Bank, Colorado Springs, Colorado. 
Issuance of the documents was deferred since it was understood 
that Governor Mitchell wanted to prepare a concurring statement. 
Payment of counsel fees. A letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston approving payment of fees for services of special counsel in 

* »0 t J 
9/22/70 
-5-
connection with the Bank's new building project was approved unanimously, 
A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
Consumer Protection Act. Representative John H. Buchanan, Jr., 
an opponent of H. R. 18214, the Consumer Protection Act of 1970, had 
requested the Board's comments on certain provisions of the bill, which 
would establish an Office of Consumer Affairs in the Executive Office of 
the President, an independent Consumer Protection Agency, and a 15-member 
Consumer Advisory Council. A draft reply had been submitted for consid-
eration . 
Discussion centered around the provision that would allow the 
Consumer Protection Agency to intervene in any "investigation, hearing, 
or other proceeding" pending before any Federal agency if it should find 
that the proceeding could substantially affect consumer interests that 
might not be Jadequately protected without such intervention. The draft 
reply would have stated that the Board anticipated there would be little 
occasion for'intervention by a consumer agency in any investigation, 
hearing, or other proceeding conducted by the Board, particularly if the 
function of prescribing Truth in Lending regulations should be trans-
ferred . 
Questions were raised about this statement. Reference was made 
to views that had been expressed in some quarters from time to time about 
a need for taking consumer interests more into consideration in monetary 

2680 
9/22/70 
-6-
: 
"
0 
policy decisions, in connection with bank holding company and merger 
cases, and in establishing maximum rates of interest payable on deposits. 
The possibility of suggesting limitations on the power of intervention 
was discussed, but the general feeling was that such a suggestion might 
v 
. 
• 
. 
. 
lead to a request for specific recommendations. Comments were made also 
on whether the passage in question was required in order to be responsive 
to Mr. Buchanan's inquiry. One member (Governor Sherrill) remarked that 
it might be undesirable to discourage sentiment in opposition to the bill, 
which events might prove to be in line with the Board's own thinking. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was agreement that the 
paragraph in question be omitted, and with that deletion the letter was 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
Processing of applications. Governor Sherrill called attention 
} i 
to a memorandum of September 15, 1970, summarizing the trend in time 
required to process bank holding company and merger applications. 
The 
average processing time of 135 days for applications that were on hand 
on March 1, 1970, had been reduced to 79 days for applications received 
since that date. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Kenyon and 
O'Connell. 
Personnel matter at Boston. Governor Brimmer advised that President 
Morris of the Boston Reserve Bank had spoken recently to Governor Maisel 

2681 
9/22/70 
-7-
ab out the prospective employment of a Boston attorney as the top legal 
official of the Bank, it being the further thought of Mr. Morris that 
the individual in question would be a likely candidate to assume the 
office of First Vice President of the Bank upon the retirement of 
Mr. Latham. 
The view expressed by the Board members present, in which it 
was understood that Governor Maisel concurred, was that while there 
would appear to be no objection to the employment of the individual in 
question, no commitment should be made at this time as to whether the 
Board would or would not at some future date approve the appointment of 
the individual as First Vice President. 
In other words, the latter 
question would be considered on its merits at the appropriate time. 
It 
was understood that Governor^Brimmer would relate these views to Presi-
dent Morris. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 

2S82 
Item No. 1 
9/22/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
HOUSTON BANK & TRUST COMPANY, 
Houston, Texas, 
f
or approval of merger with 
Citizens Bank, Houston, Texas 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o
 the Bank Merger Act (12 U,S eC. 1828(c)), an application by 
Houston Bank & Trust Company, Houston, Texas ("Houston Bank"), 
a
 member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank and Citizens Bank, Houston, 
Texas, under the charter of Houston Bank and the name Houston-Citizens 
& Trust Company. Under the proposal, the only office of 
C
*tizens Bank would be closed, branching being prohibited by State law. 
Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has 
b e e
n published pursuant to said Act. 

2683 
- 
2 
-
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports 
on the competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, 
the Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The Board has considered all relevant material 
contained in the record in the light of the factors set forth in 
the Act, including the effect of the proposal on competition, the 
financial and managerial resources and prospects of the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served, and finds that: 
Houston Bank ($111 million deposits) and Citizens 
Bank ($70 million deposits) are located one mile apart in the 
business section of downtown Houston. There are 15 other banks 
located in the downtown area, 12 of which are located in the 
a
rea intervening the two banks. The 17 downtown banks are among 
banks in Harris County, which encompasses Houston and portions 
its suburban periphery. Houston Bank and Citizens Bank are, 
Respectively, the sixth and twelfth largest of these, and the 
resulting bank would rank fifth in size. The President of Houston 
Bank recently acquired a controlling interest in Citizens Bank; 
even in the absence of this relationship, it does not appear that 
competition would be significantly reduced by consummation of the 

proposal, in view of the relative size of the merging banks and 
the large number of alternative sources of banking services in 
the area involved. 
The increased size of the resulting bank would permit 
it to meet a larger portion of the credit needs of the area, and 
to provide a more effective alternative to the area
f
s four larger 
banks, which range in deposit size from $266 million to $1 billion. 
Although Citizens Bank's office would be closed as a result of 
the merger, it does not appear that customers in the immediate 
area would be seriously inconvenienced, in view of the number of 
readily accessible alternatives. Considerations relating to the 
banking factors provide some additional support for approval of 
the proposal, in that it would assure a permanent solution to 
financial difficulties which Citizens Bank had prior to its recent 
change in ownership. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
the proposal would be in the public interest, and that the 
a
Pplication should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°
r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 

such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 22, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and 
Maisel. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 2 
9/22/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
i 
• 
•'iLii" li 
'
 : V
i
v
 
t "ii'-u'" • " 
.•! ' • ? v. 
f',..,;-^ 
BEFORE T11E BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D 9 C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
LONG ISLAND TRUST COMPANY,
 
1 
Garden City, New York,
 
1 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
Rank of Westbury Trust Company,
 
1 
Westbury, New York. 
' 
ORDER ON PETITION FOR RECONSIDERATION 
There has come before the Board of Governors a petition by 
Long Island Trust Company, Garden City, New York, requesting that the 
Board reconsider its Order dated January 30, 1970, whereby the Board 
denied the application of Long Island Trust Company, filed pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for prior approval of the 
merger into that bank of Bank of Westbury Trust Company. 
Upon review of the additional material and arguments sub» 
fitted in support of the request for reconsideration the Board concluded 
that reconsideration of the entire record, supplemented in the manner 
discussed in the Board's Statement of this date, was appropriate. 
The Board ha3 reviewed the complete record in this matter, 
including the Statement which accompanied its Order of January 30, 1970, 

2687 
- 6-
and the competitive factors reports furnished by the Comptroller of 
the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the 
United States Department of Justice in connection with the Board's 
reconsideration of this matter. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, upon reconsideration of the entire 
record now before the Board, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that the Board's Order of January 30, 1970, be 
reversed, and that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 22, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns, and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

2 t t S 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
RECONSIDERATION OF 
APPLICATION OF LONG ISLAND TRUST COMPANY FOR APPROVAL 
TO MERGE WITH BANK OF WESTBURY TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
On January 30, 1970 the Board denied an application, filed 
pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828 (c)), for approval of 
the merger of Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New York, 
("Westbury Bank") into Long Island Trust Company, Garden City, New York, 
("Long Island Trust"). The Board's denial action was premised on a 
determination that the proposed merger would have an adverse effect on 
competition in the relevant market area without sufficient offsetting 
benefit to the community involved. (See 1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin, 
155 et. seq.). Pursuant to Section 262.3(f)6 of the Board's Rules of 
Procedure (12 CFR 262.3(f)), Long Island Trust petitioned the Board for 
reconsideration of the Board's denial order. 
On the basis of Applicant's submission and argument in support 
of reconsideration, the Board granted reconsideration and, incident 
thereto, directed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to conduct a 
survey of residents and businesses located in the central Nassau 
County area with respect to banking habits and requirements, commuter 
patterns, size of businesses, etc. The survey was aimed at providing 
the Board with relevant data in aid of the Bank's determination of the 
geographic market within which the application should be viewed. The 

Z ' 6 8 9 
- 6-
Board's earlier denial action was premised upon use of a so-called 
"central Nassau County" area as the most relevant geographic market. 
That area was interpreted to encompass an area within a 5-mile radius 
of the head office of the Westbury Bank. 
Preliminary to a discussion of the aforementioned market 
survey, and of the Board's conclusions premised thereon, a brief 
reference is made to the banks involved in this proposal. Long Island 
Trust (total deposits of $235 million) and Westbury Bank (total deposits 
°f $38 million)!/ are both headquartered in Nassau County which forms 
a part of the New York Metropolitan area. Long Island Trust operates 
its head office and three of its 12 Nassau County branches in Garden 
City (population 25,000). Its remaining seven branches are located 
in Suffolk County. Westbury Bank operates a main office and two 
branches in Westbury Village (population 15,000), and one in Williston 
p
ark, approximately four miles west of its head office. The main 
office of Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank are 3.5 miles apart; 
their nearest offices are approximately one mile apart; and the main 
office of Long Island Trust, three of its branch offices, and the four 
offices of Westbury Bank are all located within the central Nassau 
County area. The bulk of Westbury Bank's business is derived from 
that area, as is a significant portion of Long Island Trust's 
business. 
1/ Figures are as of December 31, 1969. 

2 6 9 0 
- 6-
As stated, the Board's earlier denial action in this matter 
was premised upon (1) use of the central Nassau County area as the 
relevant geographic market, (2) the significant position within that 
market held by Long Island Trust, (3) the extent to which meaningful 
competition between Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank would be 
eliminated, and (4) the resulting elimination of one of a few convenient 
alternative sources of banking services within the central Nassau County 
area. 
We turn now to the survey of banking habits and preferences 
°f businesses and households in central Nassau County which was 
conducted at the Board's direction incident, in part, to the present 
a
Pplication. Questionnaires, together with special delivery stamped 
r
cturn envelopes, were mailed to a random selection of households, 
business firms (large and small), and professionals located in about 
two dozen communities situated within the central Nassau County area. 
A different questionnaire was used for each of the three groups surveyed. 
the total of nearly 3,000 questionnaires mailed, well over a 60 per 
cent response rate was achieved. The following findings and conclusions, 
among many others, emerged from the survey. 
Householders - Approximately 16 per cent of the householders 
°
u
rveyed maintain all their checking, savings, and loan accounts outside 
of central Nassau County, principally in New York City; 61 per cent 
Maintain accounts both in central Nassau County and outside the area, 
P r
incipally in New Ycrk City; and 21 per ccnt bank only in central Nassau 
Co 
U n t
y . 
Of the householders having their main checking account in a 
C
°
n t r
al Nassau County office (57 per cent of those surveyed), more than 

-4-
50 per cent were maintained in a bank that also had offices in 
Manhattan. About 70 per cent of the householders had an outstanding 
personal loan (GOO loans in number), of which 56 per cent were held 
at New York City banking offices and 23 per cent at offices in central 
Nassau County. Approximately 75 per cent of the household respondents 
who are employed work outside of the central Nassau County area, with 
about 65 per cent of all employed householders commuting to New York 
City. Of the latter commuters, 45 per cent have their main checking 
account in New York City. 
Businesses - The "large'
1
 business sample was comprised generally 
of firms having net credited assets of $500,000 or above or firms having 
branch connections, all located in central Nassau County. The "small" 
business sample encompassed other businesses located in central Nassau 
County (as listed in the Nassau County Telephone Directory). Of the 
"small" firms, 00 per cent had 25 or fewer employees, and sales of less 
than $1 million- 
The results of the business survey, discussed 
here without major effort at arithmetic quantification, indicate that 
the small businesses' market for banking service is more local (central 
Nassau County) in character than that for large businesses (57 per cent 
°f small businesses bank exclusively in central Nassau County, 23 per 
cent both within and without tha County, and 20 per cent exclusively 
°utside the area). For the large businesses, the results in the same 
categories were, respectively, 24, 54, and 20 per cent. It is noted 
that while half of the large firms indicated use of a central Nassau 
County banking office as their principal bank, 70 per cent of all large 
f i
rms maintain their principal account with a bank having Manhattan 
fices. Large firms that are units or branches of other organizations 

- 6-
bank in New York City with greater frequency than do non-branch large 
firms, although both use New York City banking offices to a significant 
extent. The bulk of all firms, large and small, responding to the 
survey questionnaire, listed as their principal bank one that is either 
headquartered or has offices in Manhattan. 
Professionals - All of the professional respondents practice 
their profession in the central Nassau County area, and a large pro-
portion live in the area. Of those who live and work in the area, 
31 per cent bank only at area banks. About 12 per cent of those who 
commute to the area for work use area banks. Of the total of responding 
professionals, nearly one-fourth bank only in central Nassau County, 
nearly two-thirds bank both in that area and outside, and 12 per cent 
bank only outside the area. Over half (54 per cent) of the responding 
professionals maintain checking accounts only at central Nassau County 
banking offices. Of these, however, more than 50 per cent have their 
accounts in banks with Manhattan offices. About three-quarters of 
responding professionals have an outstanding loan or loans, about 
two-thirds of which have such loans at offices of banking institutions 
outside the central Nassau County area. 
Premised upon the survey of central Nassau County residents 
and businesses, pertinent extracts of which have been cited above, it 
is established that banks located outside the central Nassau County 
area have a substantial impact on competition within that area, and 
constitute a convenient alternative source of banking services for 
customers, large and small, within the area. While immediate and 
direct competition between Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank occurs 
in ccntral Nassau County, use of this market in measuring the total 
Present and potential competitive consequences would ignore major 

re-
market forces that bear on the question of the significance of the 
elimination of such competition. New York City banks are permitted 
to branch throughout the Metropolitan New York area, and the Nassau 
and Westchester County banks may also branch into New York City. 
In major respects, Nassau County banks are significantly influenced 
in their service rates and terms by those set by the New York City 
banks. A large majority of the working population of central Nassau 
County responding to the survey work outside that area; of this 
group, a large proportion commute daily to New York City. These 
commuters tend to utilize banking services convenient to their places 
of business; even non-commuters tend to use to some extent either banks 
outside the area or banks within that have offices in New York City. 
A majority of the central Nassau County survey respondents depend on 
New York City banking offices for credit accommodations, particularly 
mortgage credit. It is clear that the Metropolitan New York area is 
an appropriate market with respect to which the competitive conse-
quences of this proposal should be determined. 
Within the Metropolitan New York area, 54 commercial banks 
h
°ld aggregate total deposits of $63 billion. Of those banks, Long 
Island Trust ranks 19th in total deposits; following consummation 
the proposed merger, the resulting bank would rank 17th in size, 
holding less than 0.4 per cent of the area deposits. 
While the proposed merger would eliminate present and 
Potential competition between Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank, 
would remove home-office protection from the Village of Westbury 

- 6-
end open that community to de novo branching. Considering the large 
number of banking alternatives available to the homeowners and busi-
nesses in the central Nassau County area, the loss of one alternative 
through this merger is not viewed as a significantly adverse competi-
tive consequence, and the over-all effect of the proposal upon com-
petition would be no more than slightly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects - On 
reconsideration and on the entire record now before it, the Board 
reaffirms the conclusions of its January 30, 1970 Statement that the 
banking factors with respect to both institutions involved are 
reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community - On reconsideration 
and on the entire record now before it, the Board concludes that the 
opening of the Westbury community to de novo branching and the pro-
vision of new and expanded banking services for customers of the 
Westbury Bank outweigh the slightly adverse result inherent in 
elimination of the Westbury Bank as an alternative banking outlet. 
Summary and conclusion - It is the judgment of the Board, 
°n reconsideration of the matter, that the proposed merger would have 
b
ut slightly adverse competitive consequences which would be offset 
by benefit s to the banking convenience and needs of the Westbury area. 
Accordingly, the Board, on reconsideration, concludes that 
the application should be approved. 
September 22, 1970 

2 6 9 5 
Item No. 3 
9/22/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION,
 
1 
Little Rock, Arkansas. 
' 
for approval of action to become a bank
 
1 
holding company through the acquisition
 
1 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
* 
shares of Arkansas First National Bank, 
' 
Hot Springs, Arkansas»
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Arkansas Bankstock 
Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas (which owns 99 per cent of the 
outstanding voting shares of the Worthen Bank and Trust Company, 
kittle Rock, Arkansas), for the Board's prior approval of action 
^hereby Applicant would become a bank holding company, through the 
a c
quisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Arkansas 
p
irst National Bank, Hot Springs, Arkansas. 

26<}6 
-2* 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 4031), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
Within the time provided for public comment on the proposal, 
a
 number of banks located in Arkansas urged denial of the application. 
In order that all interested parties would have an opportunity to fully 
state and- support their views, acting in its discretion, the Board 
ordered that an oral presentation be conducted. Notice of the oral 
Presentation, originally scheduled to be held at the Board's offices 
in Washington, was published in the Federal Register (35 Federal 
Regi 
ster 6622). Thereafter, to afford maximum public participation, 
the Board rescheduled and relocated the oral presentation, and, in 
accordance with a modified notice (35 Federal Register 7677), an 
°ral presentation was held at the Little Rock Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis on June 26, 1970. Governor Mitchell pre-
G
ided. All participants were afforded full opportunity to support 
^elr positions by oral statement and documentary evidence, and 
w
ere permitted an opportunity, following the oral presentation, for 
t h e
 filing of briefs. 

26?j7 
-3-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 2 2 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION 
LITTLE ROCK,. ARKANSAS, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas 
("Applicant"), which presently owns 99 per cent of the voting shares 
°f the Worthen Bank and Trust Company, Little Rock, Arkansas ("Worthen 
Bank"), has applied to the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 195 6, for prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company, through the acquisition of 80 per cent 
°r more of the voting shares of Arkansas First National Bank, Hot 
Springs, Arkansas ("AFNB"). 
Views and recommendation 
of supervisory authority* - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
r e
quested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
a
Pproval of the application. 
Oral presentation. - On March 3, 1970, there was published in 
t h
e Federal Register (35 Federal Register 4031) a notice of receipt 
o f
 the application by the Board. The notice provided that, within 

2-
9C99 
30 days of the publication, comments and views on the proposed acquisition 
could be filed with the Board. Opposition to the proposal was filed by 
a number of Arkansas banks, some of which requested a public hearing. 
In view of the fact that the Comptroller of the Currency did 
not recommend disapproval of the application, no hearing on the applica-
tion was required by the Act, and no hearing was ordered by the Board. 
However, the Board found it in the public interest that an opportunity 
be afforded to the opposing banks to present their views and for 
Applicant to respond thereto. Accordingly, the Board ordered an oral 
Presentation to be held before available members of the Board 
(35 Federal Register 6622). Later, to afford maximum opportunity for 
Public participation, the Board rescheduled and relocated the oral 
Presentation (35 Federal Register 7677). In accordance with this 
n
otice, an oral presentation was held at the office of the Little 
R
ock Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis on June 26, 1970, 
v
lth Governor Mitchell presiding. Applicant and a number of opposing 
b
anks ("Protestants") appeared; they were afforded full opportunity 
t o
 support their positions by oral statement and documentary evidence, 
and were permitted thorough opportunity to file written briefs fol-
lowing the oral presentation. 
The main argument raised by virtually all of Protestants' 
Witnesses at the oral presentation was that the proposed formation 
w
°uld be in violation of branch banking restrictions of the State of 
K a n s a s , which is a unit banking State. The Protestants were reminded 

2700 
- 6-
at the oral presentation that the Board has, on several occasions, taken 
the position that a State's restrictive branch banking laws do not, in 
the light of the legislative history of the Act, provide guidance with 
respect to the Board's responsibilities in considering an application 
to form or expand a bank holding company in such State. 
(See 
Application of Tennessee Financial Corporation, 1969 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 160, 161, and cases there cited.) 
The Board here reaffirms 
that position. Other matters raised at the oral presentation are dis-
cussed in subsequent portions of this Statement. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a
ny part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve 
a proposed 
a
Cquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
oly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
u
nless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
Posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
Probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
n
eeds of the communities 
to be served. In each case the Board is 
r e
quired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
Resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
b e
 served. 

- 6-
2701 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
is presently the State's largest banking organization, controlling, 
through Worthen Bank, $196 million in deposits, 7.1 per cent of total 
1/ 
deposits in the State. 
The proposed subsidiary, AFNB, is the State's 
fourteenth largest bank, with deposits of $37 million. 
Consummation 
of the proposal would create Arkansas' first registered bank holding 
company, controlling 8.4 per cent of total State deposits. 
Worthen Bank, Applicant's only present subsidiary, is located 
in downtown Little Rock, the county seat of Pulaski County and Capital 
of Arkansas. Worthen is the largest bank in the county and in the 
State, controlling 33 per cent of county deposits. Also located in 
downtown Little Rock are its principal competitors, the State's second 
a
nd third largest banks, with deposits, respectively, of $125 million 
and $113 million. 
AFNB ($37 million deposits) is located in Hot Springs, the 
county seat of Garland County, 50 miles southwest of Little Rock. 
A
FNB is slightly the smaller of two area banks, controlling 48.5 per 
cent of county deposits. 
Pulaski and Garland Counties are separated by Saline 
County, which has two banks (deposits of $10 million and $18 million), 
both located in Benton. Benton is approximately 30 miles northeast 
o f
 Hot Springs, and 20 miles southwest of Little Rock. The record 
______ 
y 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1969. 

tC 0 \ jfC 
- 6-
reflects that neither Worthen Bank nor AFNB derives significant business 
from Saline County, and that neither competes with the other to any 
meaningful extent in any other area. 
It appears that the same factors 
which have precluded such competition in the past - the distance between 
them and the State's prohibition against branch banking - would likewise 
minimize the possibility that they might become competitors in the future. 
The Board therefore concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would not eliminate existing competition or foreclose significant 
potential competition. While both banks would likely be strengthened 
to some extent by the proposed affiliation, it does not appear that 
such strengthening implies undue adverse effects on competing banks. 
Because of the small number of sizable banking institutions 
in Arkansas (only 22 banks have deposits in excess of $20 million), 
caution must be exercised with respect to proposals which would 
expand the size and scope of the State's largest organization, in 
order to assure that such expansion does not result in its domination 
banking throughout the State. However, any further expansion of 
Applicant requires prior approval of the Board, just as does its 
formation as a bank holding company, and the statutory criteria pro-
vide adequate authority to avoid any anticompetitive tendencies 
might ensue. Consummation of the present proposal, in and 
°f itself, would have no significant anticompetitive effect in the 
State, or in any smaller area within the State. 

2703 
- 6-
Ori the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, 
and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or 
tend to create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was chartered in 1968, and acquired its present holdings in 
Worthen Bank in 1969. Its financial condition, management, and pros-
pects are regarded as satisfactory, as are those of Worthen Bank. 
AFNB's financial condition, management and prospects are also regarded 
as satisfactory. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - It 
does not appear that any major banking needs of the Little Rock or 
Hot Springs communities are unserved at the present time. 
However, 
Particularly in Hot Springs, consummation of the proposal would 
facilitate a general upgrading of services, the accomplishment of 
which would be of benefit to the public. 
AFNB presently has only a small trust department, and 
such business has not been actively promoted. The availability of 
the experienced trust personnel of Worthen Bank, in an advisory 
c
apacity, would permit rendition of expanded trust services, which 

Applicant proposes would be more aggressively marketed. AFNB has 
also been conservative in its lending operations. Like other areas 
of the State, Hot Springs is presently undergoing industrial develop-
ment, and the proposal would permit AFNB to meet the resulting 
expansion in credit demands with greater facility, through participa-
tions with Worthen Bank and the initiation of more sophisticated 
credit procedures. Applicant also proposes to assist AFNB in a 
modernization of the latter's banking quarters. 
Because of the limited size of the largest banking organi-
zations in Arkansas, much of the State's growth in the past has 
required financing from outside sources. The present proposal 
represents a step toward the development of local credit sources of 
a sufficient size to meaningfully assist in the State's development, 
to the benefit of the public generally. 
These considerations weigh in favor of approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
s
ection 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 22 , 1970. 

OH'f 
tc / 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
9/22/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20531 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S H • N • E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 23, 1970 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone 
Vice President and General" Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
30 Pearl Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Stone: 
This is in response to your letter of August 21, 1970, to 
the Board's General Counsel requesting approval of the payment by 
your Bank of compensation in an amount not in excess of $50,000 to 
the firm of Ely, Bartlett, Brown & Proctor for services as special 
counsel in connection with your new building project. Your letter 
sets forth in some detail the nature and extent of the Ely firm's 
past and proposed services. 
On November 3, 1969, the Board authorized payment to the 
Ely firm of fees not to exceed $125,000 for legal services rendered 
or to be rendered with respect to the building program. On the basis 
of that authorization, $111,411 has been paid through February 1S70 
to the aforementioned firm, and there is presently an outstanding bill 
in the amount of $20,439, payment of which would exceed the Hovember 
1969 authorization by $6,850. "Accordingly, you have requested autho-
rization for an additional payment to special counsel of fees not in 
excess of $50,000, such sum to include payment for services that are 
to be rendered through March 1971„ 
The Board has approved payment by your Bank to the firm of 
Ely, Bartlett, Brown & Proctor, of additional legal fees not to exceed 
$50,000. This authorization brings to $175,000 the total authorized 
payments to the Ely firm for services incident to your new building 
project. 
-- -

M r . Laurence H . Stone 
- 2 -
< ub 
Noting your stated expectation that at least the total 
authorized $175,000 will be paid to the Ely firm by early 1971 in 
connection with your building project, the Board expressed the view 
that ^every effort should be made toward maximum utilization of the 
Bank's legal staff with respect to the building project. The Board 
is aware that the nature and volume of counseling services required 
in connection with the proposed building necessitated the use to 
date of the Ely firm. However, in view of the three years experience 
now afforded Bank's counsel" in working with the Ely firm, it is 
hoped that increasing use can be made of Bank counsel's services, 
resulting in a proportionate lessening of the need for reliance on 
the services of outside counsel. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
i 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2707 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
a F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 5 
9/22/70 
O F F I C E O F THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
September 22, 1970 
The Honorable John H. Buchanan, Jr. 
House of Representatives 
* 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Buchanan: 
Your letter of July 29, asked for comments on H. R. 18214, 
the Consumer Protection Act of 1970. 
The principal impact of the bill on functions performed by 
the Board of Governors would seem to be in connection with Truth 
in Lending. 
As you know, the Truth in Lending Act vested in the 
Board the responsibility for prescribing implementing regulations. 
The Board has recommended to Congress that this responsibility 
be transferred to another agency whose primary function encompasses 
consumer protection. 
We believe that a number of other functions 
now scattered among several agencies, as well as those embodied in 
legislative proposals now pending in Congress, should be consolidated 
in an agency devoted entirely to the interests of consumers. 
Such 
a consolidation should minimize the possibilities of duplication and 
conflict inherent in proposals such as H. R. 18214, which leave 
consumer-protection responsibilities in existing agencies while 
establishing one or more new agencies for purpose of coordination 
and advocacy of consumer interests. 
We recognize, however, that many other functions of 
Government that are not consumer-oriented in the same degree as 
Truth in Lending nevertheless affect consumers vitally, and we 
have supported earlier bills, such as S. 860 and S. 3240, which 
contained provisions for advocacy of consumer interests in connection 
with such functions, similar to sections 204(a), 204(c), and 203(b)(6) 
of H. R. 18214, to which you direct attention. 
Sincerely, 
