FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
May 4, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

±074 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 4, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr! Rft^eyv 
Assistant to -the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr . Dahl, Assistant Director; Division o f
v 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

±1075 
5/4/71 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
• i'^lu j5 ' 
UTi . v..' . 
: , ;. v . :*•: • \ \\ v •• •.; 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco 
on April 29 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 3, 1971, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Traverse City State 
Bank, Traverse City, Michigan, approving a proposed issuance of convertible 
subordinated debentures. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
By order dated February 22, 1971, the Board denied the application 
of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation to acquire shares of The Stephens 
Security Bank, Stephens, Arkansas. The Board did not consider the merits 
of the application, but based its action upon the existence of State law, 
enacted subsequent to the filing of the application, under which the expan-
sion of multibank holding companies was prohibited. An amendment had now 
been enacted exempting applications in process prior to enactment of the 
statute, and the applicant had petitioned the Board for reconsideration. 
In a memorandum dated April 29 the Legal Division recommended that the 
petition be granted. 

1 0 7 6 
5/4/71 
-3-
i /4 / / 
By unanimous vote the Board granted the petition. A copy of the 
notice sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Office of Manage-
ment and Budget regarding a proposal submitted by the Department of 
/» r 
.t 
f u r . 
; 
. . . 
, •: 
Justice that State governments review their statutory restrictions on 
multiple office banking. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Allied Bank International. Unanimous approval was given to the 
application of Allied Bank International, New York, New York, for permis-
sion to establish a new wholly-owned Edge corporation, Allied Pacific 
Bank International, to be located in Los Angeles, California. 
Attached 
as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter sent to the applicant, with which 
was transmitted a preliminary permit. 
National Development Bank. With a memorandum dated April 29, 
1971, the Division of Research and Statistics submitted a revised draft 
response to a request of the Office of Management and Budget for comment 
on two bills to establish a National Development Bank. The revision took 
into account views expressed during discussion of an earlier draft on 
April 27, as well as suggestions made by Governor Brimmer in a memorandum 
of April 23. 
. ». P 
I .!.!•;t —Mi f -.•.:-.:. 1 
. • 
: 
The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Retirement Plan investments. In a memorandum dated April 30, 
1971, Governor Maisel referred to actions taken by the Board on January 26, 

±1077 
••>/'.//1 
5/4/71 
-4-
1971, relating to the handling of assets of the Retirement Plan for 
Employees of the Federal Reserve System. One action had been to approve 
in principle a proposal that the Trustees of the Plan enter into contracts 
with a group of insurance companies for investment management services 
covering assets totaling approximately $280 million. The Joint Board-
Presidents Committee and the Investment Committee of the Retirement Plan 
now recommended that contracts be entered into by the Plan with six 
insurance companies selected for that purpose. A draft letter of intent 
to be sent to the insurance companies was attached. 
Governor Maisel recommended that the Board advise the Trustees 
of the Retirement Plan that it approved action, if taken by the Trustees, 
to enter into contracts of the type described with the six companies, 
provided the necessary enabling amendment to the Retirement Plan had 
previously received a favorable determination by the Internal Revenue 
Service. 
Governor Maisel's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
A 
copy of the letter sent to Mr. Heflin, Chairman of the Board of Trustees 
of the Retirement Plan, is attached as Item No. 6. 
A limited attendance session followed during which Mr. Robert 
Solomon reported on developments in foreign exchange markets, particularly 
flows of dollars into Germany touched off by speculation that the German 

5/4/71 
mark would be revalued. Ensuing discussion dealt with factors such as 
the impact on U.S. financial markets and Trading Desk activity. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
r-o A c u 
"-H w c 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
1079 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
5/4/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 4, 1971 
V t 
Board of Directors 
Traverse City State Bank 
Traverse City, Michigan 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f) (3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $2 million in convertible subordinated debentures by 
Traverse City State Bank, Traverse City, Michigan, as proposed 
in your Offering Circular revised as of April 19, 1971. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
5 
| 
V
 r- 
I IV <:'. 

Item No. 
5/4/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C c 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
FIRST ARKANSAS BANKSTOCK CORPORATION, 
' 
Little Rock, Arkansas,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per
 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
The Stephens Security Bank, Stephens, 
' 
Arkansas. 
i 
ORDER FOR, AND NOTICE OF, RECONSIDERATION 
This matter comes before the Board of Governors on 
Petition by First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation requesting that 
the Board reconsider its Order dated February 22, 1971 (36 Federal 
Register 3852), vrtiereby the Board denied the application of First 
Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, filed pursuant to section 3(a) 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior approval of 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Stephens Security Bank, 
The Board's original action was specifically due to the 
enactment in Arkansas, subsequent to the filing of the application, 
of a statute prohibiting the formation and expansion of multi-bank 

holding cbmpaniesi 
The Jifefcitldft is based upon a recently enacted 
Arkansas statute which exempts from the general prohibition appli-
cations in process before the Board prior to the passage of the 
first statute. In view thereof, the Board finds that reconsidera-
tion would be appropriate in order to reach a decision as to the 
merits of the application. 
It is hereby ordered; That the Petition for Reconsidera-
tion of the application be and hereby is granted. In order to 
facilitate such reconsideration, not later than thirty (30) days 
after the publication of this Order in the FEDERAL REGISTER, 
comments and views regarding the proposed acquisition may be 
filed with the Board. Communications should be addressed to the 
•t 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551. The Application, as amended, may be 
inspected at the Office of the Board of Governors or the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 4, 1971. 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
i082 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No, 3 
5/4/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 5 , 1971 
M r . Dwight A . Ink 
Assistant Director for 
Executive Management 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D.C. 
20503 
' • - '• 
; i. 
... 
j 
Dear Mr. Ink: 
This is in response to your letter of April 12 with 
respect to a proposal submitted by the Department of Justice 
for consideration by the Committee on suggested State Legis-
lation of the Council of State Governments. 
The Board sees no reason why the proposal should 
not be submitted for review to the Council of State 
Governments. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 

±11 
BDARD DF G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 4 
5/4/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
May 4, 1971 
Allied Bank International 
116 East 55th Street 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and the Organization Certificate, dated November 6, 1970, 
of Allied Pacific Bank International, and there is enclosed a pre-
liminary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of 
the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation IC, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. 
Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the direc-
tors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations the con-
trolling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, 
chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State of the 
United States, or by firms or companies the controlling interest 
m which is owned by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of 
the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of Association 
at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each share-
holder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his 
stock subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall 
certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when each 
is paid in, in accordance with law. 

1084 
Allied Bank International 
~2-
Allied Pacific Bank International will "have no separate 
base under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program, and any foreign 
loans and investments will need to be made under the ceilings of 
Allied Bank International. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is 
given with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments 
of Allied Pacific Bank International will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines now in effect as they apply to your 
Corporation and its subsidiaries and that due consideration will be 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
In this connection, it 
is understood that Allied Pacific Bank International is not to be 
considered a domestically-chartered subsidiary for purposes of the 
foreign borrowing offset facility presently contained in Guideline 
section II-A-7. 
The Board of Governors also grants consent for your Cor-
poration to purchase and hold all of the shares of Allied Pacific 
Bank International, Los Angeles, California, at a cost of approxi-
m a t e l y . $2 
,000,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
.1 „ , 
S, 
: V; 
7 t 
, < . • ; , . . , ' 
, * .. . , . 
,„ 
. , 
, ; 
, 
- .'"• 
- -
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

±1085 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
. F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
VJAS H I N 5 T D N , O . C . i?OB5l 
May 4, 1971 
Preliminary Permi t: 
XT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated November 6, 1970, of ALLIED PACIFIC BANK INTERNATIONAL duly 
filed with said Board of Governors, and that ALLIED PACIFIC BANK 
INTERNATIONAL j.s authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred 
upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to 
its organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to commence 
business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
(seal) 
• 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
By 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

108G 
BOARD DP G O V E R N O R S 
• l-~ T H E 
Item No. 5 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5/4/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
\\m 
• 
A D D R E S F i 
O F F I C I A L 
C I D W N E S P D N D E f J f J t 
1 U 
T H E 
t l t l A K D 
May 6, 1971 
M r . Wilfred H. Romniel 
Assistant Director of Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
Washington, D.C. 
20503 
Dear M r . Rommel: 
This letter is in response to your request of March 23, 
1971, for the Board's views on S. 580/H.R. 3550, bills which would 
establish a National Development Bank. 
The bills would authorize the Bank to make .and guarantee 
loans for: the establishment and improvement of businesses in urban 
and rural depressed areas; construction of public facilities by State 
and local governments; and the construction of low and moderate-
income housing. 
In addition, the bills would provide for jobs and 
job training for unskilled and semi-skilled unemployed and under-
employed workers. 
One of the major objectives of these bills is to widen 
opportunities, particularly in depressed areas, for unemployed and 
underemployed persons. 
But since there are many existing Federal 
programs with similar direct and indirect objectives, the Board 
believes it would be useful to have an evaluation of the extent to 
which a Development Bank might productively supplement or supplant 
such programs. At the least, a Development: Bank should operate 
under a mandate that clearly establishes the boundaries between its 
operations and those of existing programs--such as those of the 
Small 
Business Administration, the Economic Development Administra-
tion, and the various job training programs administered by the 
Department of Labor. 
In addition, the Board notes that the Development Bank 
would widen job opportunities mainly through the provision of 
capital at subsidized cost. In this regard, the preamble of the 
two bills differ in one important respect. H.R. 3550 refers to 
"...the establishment of small and medium size businesses and 

M r . Wilfred II. Rommel 
-2-
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
108' 
industries and the expansion and improvement of such existing -
businesses and industries..." 
S.580 refers to "...the establish-
ment of new businesses and industries and expansion and improvement 
of existing businesses and industries..." 
The Board would prefer 
the Senate version on the grounds that a Development Bank should be 
able to assist any size firm that has a program to create jobs, or 
provide job training, for disadvantaged persons. 
The Board sees 
no reason for presuming that small businesses would be more effective 
than large in serving this function. 
Indeed, the increased operating 
costs of job-training might increase the already high chance for 
failure of small enterprises. 
VJith regard to public facility financing, the Board notes 
that an important Federal aid already exists in the form 
of tax 
exemption of the interest on obligations issued by States and local 
government units. 
There is no provision in the bills which would 
take this present tax-exempt status into account. The proposed Bank 
would have no need for tax-free income while State and local govern-
ments presumably would expect to pay rates equivalent to those in 
the tax-exempt market. Presumably, the proposed Bank would have to 
receive a subsidy through appropriations to cover the difference 
between a taxable and a tax-free rate for State and local government 
loans. Moreover, it would seem unreasonable for the Bank to be given 
authority to guarantee State and local obligations issued in the^ 
general market?" Enactment of this guarantee authority would produce 
a bond with greater investor advantages than even direct obligations 
of the U.S. Treasury: 
it would be exempt from Federal income taxes, 
yet it would be fully guaranteed by the U.S. Government. 
The guarantee provisions of the bills in general would 
expose the Treasury Department to a significant, open-ended, risk 
since there are no quantitative limits placed on the size of this 
program. The Export-Import Bank may offer a useful model, in this 
regard, by placing a legislative ceiling on the aggregate volume of 
both loans and guarantees. 
In addition, the bills do not provide 
for fees to be charged on guarantees nor any prior test that credits 
were not available in the private market at reasonable rates without 
a guarantee. 
The Board suggests that fees for guarantees should be 
charged sufficient to accumulate a contingency default fund and that 
consideration be given to a procedure for ascertaining that funds 
are not available from private sources without a guarantee. 
The Board opposes providing Federal Reserve credit directly 
to a Government agency, as included in Section 12 of the bills. 
Under current statute and operating policy even the Treasury 

M r . Wilfred H . Rommel 
-3-
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
1085 
Department has only temporary and limited direct access to Federal 
Reserve credit.. The Board fears that the mechanism of Section 12 
would create operating difficulties for the System's conduct of 
monetary policy, and could set a dangerous precedent that would 
increasingly jeopardize the very objectives of such policy. 
It 
would also place the System in the difficult position of choosing 
how much credit to provide a special sector, a choice best lodged 
in the Congress. In the Board's view, any direct discounting of 
notes by the proposed Bank should be done in the private market. 
The Board also sees no merit in tying loan rates or 
maximum rates on private guaranteed loans to the Federal Reserve 
discount rate. The discount rate typically is set with regard to 
its relationship vis-a-vis going rates on short-term money market 
securities of the highest quality, and hence fluctuates at levels 
considerably lower than for the types of credits contemplated under 
these bills. Moreover, the discount rate, as a monetary policy 
instrument, is not always moved in parallel with market rates of 
interest. Historically, the peak discount rate of the postwar 
period was 6 per cent, from April 1969 to November 1970. 
This 
means that the rate on guaranteed loans authorized by these bills 
would have reached a maximum of only 7% per cent. Yet during the 
1969-70 period, the-prime bank rate was as high as 8% per cent, and 
Federal agencies paid as.high as 9.20 per cent for 25-year funds 
(TVA in June 19/0). We doubt that private lenders could have been 
induced to lend at 7% per cent rates under the guarantee program, 
even with a 100 per cent guarantee, given these much more attractive 
investment opportunities. 
Direct loans from the proposed Bank might 
have been available, assuming a sufficient subsidy appropriation, 
but the concept of tying the interest rate on such loans to the 
discount rate would seem wholly inconsistent with the risk exposure 
assumed. 
The Board suggests that the Directors of the proposal 
Bank be authorized to determine the interest rates charged on its 
loans and the maximum rate the private market can charge on loans 
guaranteed by it. This discretionary power follows the Export-
Import Bank pattern, and would allow the Directors to adjust the 
rates to suit changing conditions and the degree of risk assumed 
in individual instances. 
Since the Congress must authorize appro-
priations to cover the difference between interest received and 
paid by the Bank, the procedure would also provide a useful and 
flexible method for congressional review and oversight of the Bank's 
activities. 

M r . Wilfred H . Rommel 
-4-
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office of the President 
1089 
While the apparent objective of the Bank, as indicated 
earlier, would be to fill the job opportunity gap, as opposed to 
the more traditional concept of a credit gap, the Board urges 
that the bills include some provision that would require the 
Directors to evaluate the credit worthiness of borrowers. 
The 
Board feels that the Bank should — as one of many tests — assure 
itself that its borrowers have a reasonable chance to succeed 
financially, since otherwise any creation of job opportunities 
would be temporary and of little avail. 
In sum, the Board sees many substantive and technical 
problems in the bills as drawn. Unless there were to be substantial 
revisions in thrust and content, the Board would have to oppose their 
enactment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

±1090 
3 D A R D n r 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. 6 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
5/4/71 
A D D R E S S 
U F F I C I A L 
C O R P E S P D N D E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 4, 1971. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, Chairman, 
Board of Trustees, Retirement Plan 
for Employees of the Federal Reserve System, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia 
23213. 
"••, 
i 
,,,, • 
,• 
i 
- 
• 
' 
, 
Dear Aubrey: 
Governor Maisel, acting in his capacities as Chairman of 
the Joint Committee on the Retirement Plan, Trustee designated by 
the Board of Governors, and Associate Member of the Investment 
Committee, has informed the Board of the recommendation being made 
by the Joint Committee and the Investment Committee that the Plan 
enter into contracts with six insurance companies for investment 
management services covering certain Plan assets that would be 
handled by those companies on a discretionary basis. These contracts 
would be in addition to those now in effect with Prudential Insurance 
Company of America and Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United 
States whereby $60 million was placed with each of them on March 1, 
1971 to be repaid with interest at 8.5 per cent in annual amounts 
specified in the contracts over a period of 20 years. 
The Board has been furnished with a copy of the draft 
letter of intent, as revised April 28, that would be sent to the six 
insurance companies tentatively selected for managing the portions 
of the assets remaining in the Plan in the approximate amounts listed 
below: 
Percentage 
of total 
Aetna (Hartford) 
20 
$56,000,000. 
Bankers Life (Des Moines) 
10 
28,000,000. 
Equitable (New York) 
20 
56,000,000. 
Massachusetts Mutual (Springfield) 
10 
28,000,000. 
Prudential (Newark) 
20 
56,000,000. 
Travelers (Hartford) 
20 
56,000,000. 

1091 
Mr. Aubrey N . Heflin 
-2~ 
The Board of Governors approves the proposed action to 
be taken by the Retirement Plan for entering into contracts with 
the specified six companies and the sending of a draft letter of 
intent to each of them generally in the form of the one attached. 
It will be noted that the Board has inserted in item "j" of the 
guidelines the words "bank holding companies," to provide that 
purchases of securities of such companies shall not be made in an 
individual separate account to which Retirement Plan assets are 
allocated. 
It is understood, of course, that the Retirement Plan 
will have received the necessary favorable determination from the 
Internal Revenue Service regarding an amendment to the Plan authoriz-
ing such contracts prior to their execution, and that the form of the 
contracts with each of the companies will be acceptable to the 
appropriate Board or Committee of the Retirement Plan. 
Yours sincerely, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary of the Board 
7 , 
Enclosure 
Copy to M r . Bergin and Mr. Clay 
v . 
.
1 
. 
. .... 

±092 
DRAFT TiETTEIl TO INVESTMENT MANAGERS (revised 4/28/71.) 
Bear 
: 
The Investment Committee of the Retirement Plan for Employees 
of the Federal Reserve System (the "Retirement Plan") is recommending 
to the trustees of the Retirement Plan, the Conference of Presidents, 
and the Board.of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that 
Company be one of six life insurance 
companies, each of which would receive and manage a portion of the assets 
Of the Retirement Plan pursuant to a group deposit administration contract 
in connection with the funding of the Retirement Plan benefits. 
This 
arrangement will require the adoption of amendments to the Retirement 
Plan to be made by the trustees with the approval of the Board of Governors 
and the receipt of a favorable determination by the Internal Revenue 
Service with respect to such amendments. We expect no difficulty in obtain-
ing such a determination. 
The recommendations of the Investment Committee embody the 
following proposal: 
Initially, cash and common stocks (with a total current market 
value of about $56 million /$28 million/*) will be transferred to you on 
or about October 1, 1971. Additional assets may be transferred to you 
from time to time thereafter. 
The assets transferred to you shall be dealt with in accordance 
• : .. k'. ( ' .v.. W: :/:.. • •> . . ., V 
• » .-i, 
1. ir. 
with the terms of this letter and shall be credited or allocated to such 
°ne or more of your accounts (i.e. your general account, any pooled 

10S 
separate account that you may operate now or in the future, or a single 
customer separate account) and in such proportion as you may in your 
discretion from time to time determine. You shall keep the Investment ' 
Committee informed as to the initial and any subsequent allocation of 
such assets among your accounts and shall notify the Investment Committee 
as promptly as possible after the end of each calendar quarter of the 
market value of all assets held in respcct of the Retirement Plan in 
each such account as of the end of the quarter, including for each 
separate account the number and value of units credited to the Retire-
ment Plan. This information can be provided as a part of .the general 
reporting system designed for the measurement of investment performance 
Wnich will be described in a subsequent communication. 
You will be advised later as to any other periodic or special 
reports that the Retirement Plan may wish to have submitted regarding 
n e content of its account with your company. 
At no time and under no circumstances should the Federal 
Reserve System or the Retirement Plan be publicly identified or associated 
With any securities held, or formerly held, in respect of the Retirement 
Plan, in the same spirit you should .make no statement or disclosure to 
any person or organization (other than an officer or employee of the 
Retirement Plan, a member of its Investment Committee, or an investment 
advisor or auditor designated by the Plan) concerning the investment and 
Management of the Retirement Plan assets, nor should you publicize in 
a n y way your undertaking in respect of the Retirement Plan. 

The following guidelines should be observed in your manag 
°f each individual separate account to which the Retirement Plan as 
allocated or credited: 
a. Investments should be made with long-term objectives 
in mind, although you would be authorized to dispose 
of assets, without regard to the length of time they 
have been held, whenever investment considerations 
make such action advisable. 
b. Investments should not be concentrated in particular 
i 
industries or a grouping of related industries. 
c. No investment should be made for the purpose of 
exercising control over or management of the company 
that issued the securities. 
d. No investment should be made or continued in a 
company whose products or activities are subject to 
broad-based social or political censure. 
e. No money should be borrowed for the purpose of 
investment or otherwise. 
f. Purchases should not be made on margin. 
g. 
Short sales should not be made. 
h. There should be no trading in puts or calls or 
foreign exchange. 
i. There should be no purchase of commodities or 
commodity contracts. 
j. There should be no purchase of stock in banks, bank 
holding companies, savings and loan associations, or 
gold mining enterprises. 
k. There should be no purchases of unregistered 
or lettered stock. 

±1095 
The Investment Committee reserves the right from time to 
time to make prospective changes in the foregoing guidelines. 
In addition we assume of course that you will be guided by, 
and conform substantially (do not insert "substantially" in letter to 
Equitable) to, the investment restrictions and standards set forth in 
\ 
the New York Insurance Law and regulations with respect to any separate 
accounts that you may utilize. 
It is our intent that you be given a minimum period of four 
years in which to demonstrate your investment capability. However, the 
Investment Committee reserves the right to terminate this arrangement 
at any time. If the contract is terminated, the Retirement Plan would 
Want to be able to withdraw all assets held by you for our account over 
a maximum period of three years and 90 days from date of notice of 
contract termination, One fourth of the market value of the aggregate 
assets held for our account as of the date of notice of termination 
V/ould be withdrawable not later than 90 days from date of notice; one-third 
°f the market value (as of the date of payment) of the remaining assets 
V'ould be withdrawable one year later; one-half of the remaining assets would 
be withdrawable two years later; and the balance would be payable three 
Years later. All withdrawals v/ould be on a market value basis and would 
be payable in cash, except that assets held in an individual separate 
account may be transferred in kind. You v/ould have the right to determine 
the sequence in which withdrawals from your various accounts would be made. 
If you have previously agreed in writing to provide for a more rapid 
liquidation, you v/ould be expected to adhere to the shorter schedule. 

±1096 
It is understood, of course, that modifications in the liquidation 
schedule may be negotiated in the event of unusual and unpredictable 
market conditions. On the other hand, if the liquidation could.be 
accomplished more rapidly than the agreed-upon minimum rate, without 
.adverse effects on the markets or the liquidating value, we would expect 
you to release funds as promptly as feasible„ 
During the period of 
liquidation, the guidelines and the reporting requirements set forth 
above should be observed and investment earnings should be credited to 
the remaining balance in accordance with the same principles that were 
being applied prior to the notice of contract termination. 
It may be necessary, from time to time, for the Retirement 
•^lan to withdraw funds from our accounts with you to meet current benefit. 
O Dligations. Within the next few years, these withdrawals should not 
exceed $1 million ($500,000) in any one year. These needs would be 
predictable and you would be given at least six months' notice In advance. 
Your investment performance will be measured periodically and 
compared with that of the five other insurance companies and general 
Market indices. As indicated earlier in this letter, you will be asked 
C o report your investment results periodically in the format and detail 
set out in a memorandum that you will receive in the near future. 
Pending the formal action to be taken by the trustees and the 
^oard of Governors and the securing of the approval of the Internal Revenue 
i f 
' 
• 
Service, we suggest that you prepare the form of contract that would be 
entered into between you and the successor trustee under the Agreement 
and Declaration of Trust made as of March 14, 1934, as amended, and 

10ST 
submit an opinion of counsel that your company is authorized to enter 
into such contract and that upon due execution of such contract it will 
become a binding obligation of your company. It is expected that the 
contracting party for the Retirement Flan will be the Federal Reserve 
.Bank of New York, as trustee. 
This arrangement is subject to mutual approval of the contract 
and related documents. 
All reports should be directed to: 
Mr. Martin 11, Bergin, Executive Secretary, 
Office of the Federal Reserve Employee Benefits System, 
33 Liberty Street, 
New York,' New York 
10045. 
o r to such other address as the Executive Secretary shill direct from 
•t'.i.ur. J-..;,'.;. . lu 
ally 
0« t '.A; > . * a . r j 
• „ . " 
—
 
4 • 
uAine to time. 
Will you kindly let us know prior to May 
, 1971 whether the 
foregoing is acceptable to you. 
Sincerely yours, 
By 
Chairman, Board of Trustees. 
, 1971. 
Ine foregoing is acceptable to us. 
—— 
(C omp any) 
•n 
By 
Title 
