MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 25, 1970 

3 2 f » 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 25, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 2/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
: :iu- • ' . i •• 
v ; 4 < • 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

11/25/70 
-2-
! .. 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
First Security Corporation. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on November 10, 19 70, of the application of First 
Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of First 
Security State Bank of Springville, Springville, Utah, a proposed new 
bank, had been distributed. A dissenting statement by Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer had also been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1, along with 
a copy of the dissenting statement. 
New Jersey State lottery. Question had been raised by the New 
Jersey Lottery Commission whether certain activities proposed to be 
performed by State member banks on behalf of the Division of the State 
Lottery Commission would constitute a violation of section 9A of the 
Federal Reserve Act (the Bank Lottery Act), which provides that a 
State member bank may not deal in lottery tickets. In a memorandum 
dated November 24, 19 70, the Legal Division discussed the legal aspects 
of the matter and recommended that the Board follow the approach taken 

32 ;r/ 
11/25/70 
-3-
by the Comptroller of the Currency arid the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding banks under their supervision, namely, that no 
objection would be interposed to participation by New Jersey State 
member banks in an agreement with the State Lottery of the nature 
described. A proposed letter was attached. 
Following discussion, the Legal Division's recommendation was 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the Attorney General 
. 
i -
of the State of New Jersey is attached as Item No. 2. 
Governor Daane entered the meeting during the following 
1. :." 
J 
r • 
i » 
' 
discussion. 
Subordinated notes. In December 1963 the Comptroller of the 
Currency had ruled that capital notes or debentures issued by a national 
bank that were expressly subordinated to the prior payment in full of 
all deposit liabilities could be included as part of the bank's capital 
stock and surplus in computing the limit on loans to individual borrowers 
prescribed by section 5200 of the U.S. Revised Statutes. That section 
provides, with certain exceptions, that loans by a national bank to 
any one borrower shall not exceed 10 per cent of the bank's "capital 
stock" actually paid in and unimpaired and 10 per cent of its unimpaired 
"surplus fund." In view of this ruling, the Board had considered the 
question as related to similar limitations governing State member banks, 
, ? 
, 
, 
• , 
1 ... 
i 
. s. . 
' 
: 
-
and in January 1964 published an interpretation that capital notes or 

32*38 
11/25/70 
-4-
debentures do not constitute "capital," "capital stock," or "surplus" 
for the purposes of various provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The conflict in rulings between the Board and the Comptroller had 
resulted in some competitive inequalities between national banks and 
State member banks, and a request had now been received from the 
American Bankers Association for reconsideration of the Board's position. 
In a memorandum dated November 4, 1970, the Legal Division 
reviewed the basis for the Board's present position, noted among other 
things that there had been no amendment of the statute since publica-
tion of the 1964 interpretation, and recommended that the Board adhere 
to its existing ruling. 
Comments at today's meeting indicated that members of the 
Board were sympathetic to a change in posture, but that there was a 
difference of view as to how this should be accomplished. Some members 
(Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer) favored seeking legislation 
that would clarify the issue, while others (Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Sherrill) felt that the Board's position could be modified under the 
present statutes to accommodate the Comptroller's interpretation. At the 
request of Chairman Burns, Mr. Sanders described a line of reasoning 
for a reversal of the Board's interpretation that he felt would be 
legally justifiable. However, it was pointed out that, while the 
Comptroller's ruling had stood without challenge for a number of years, 

3 2 S 9 
11/25/70 
-5-
it had not been tested in the courts. In addition, indications were 
that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was not entirely in 
accord with the Comptroller's position. 
Following further discussion during which there was agree-
ment that a uniform approach to the problem among the Federal supervisory 
agencies would be desirable, the matter was referred to Governor Mitchell 
to bring to the attention of the Interagency Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation. 
(Note: The Legal Division's memorandum also dealt with the 
question of inclusion of undivided profits within the capital base. 
On this point, Governor Maisel felt that the Board would be warranted 
in moving to the Comptroller's position even in the absence of legis-
lation. However, this possibility—that is, of changing the Board's 
position on undivided profits but not on capital notes and debentures— 
was not otherwise supported. It was noted, among other things, that 
there appeared to be a question whether the FDIC would accept the 
position of the Comptroller.) 
In a memorandum dated November 10, 1970, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation and the Legal Division recommended delegation, 
in part to the Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and in part to the Federal Reserve Banks, of authority to approve the 
issuance by State member banks of subordinated notes without the bank's 

3300 
11/25/70 
-6-
liability constituting a deposit subject to reserve requirements 
(Regulation D) and interest rate control (Regulation Q). Attached to 
the memorandum was a draft of delegation of authority setting forth 
certain guidelines, designed principally from the standpoint of 
supervisory considerations, to assure that a bank that issued subor-
dinated notes would be able to make timely payments of principal and 
interest on them. 
Effective June 30, 19 70, Regulations D and Q had been amended 
so as to narrow the exemption of bank subordinated notes under those 
regulations. The change in the regulations, introduced essentially to 
prevent commercial banks from using high-yielding subordinated notes 
to bid funds^away from nonbank depositary institutions, was made fol-
lowing consideration of the matter on several occasions by the Coor-
dinating Committee on Bank Regulation. The draft delegation of authority 
now proposed had also been the subject of discussion by that Committee. 
If the staff recommendation met with Board approval, it was expected 
that the Comptroller of the Currency would act on applications by 
national banks to issue exempt notes in a manner consistent with the 
provisions of the delegation, and that the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation would do the same whenever it incorporated the promissory 
note section of Regulation Q into its corresponding regulation. However, 
two issues relating to this matter (whether a bank should be permitted 

3301 
11/25/70 
-7-
to sell exempt notes when it does not need capital and whether the 
Board should impose restrictions on the manner by which member banks 
may advertise exempt notes) were scheduled for further discussion by 
the Coordinating Committee at the instance of the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board. 
In a memorandum dated November 23, 1970, the Division of 
Research and Statistics expressed certain reservations with respect 
to the constraints in the proposed delegation and suggested, particu-
larly in view of the present economic climate, that consideration be 
given to whether the benefits likely to be gained from close supervi-
sory control might not be significantly outweighed by the reduced 
flexibility of bank management that would be associated with any system 
of administrative approval. 
Following explanatory comments by Messrs. Solomon and Keir, 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the rules under which banks 
of all classes were permitted to issue subordinated notes should be 
uniform. Accordingly, he felt that, before the Board took action, the 
rules under which delegated authority would be exercised should be 
considered further by the Coordinating Committee. 
There was general agreement that the rules followed should 
be uniform among the Federal supervisory agencies, but comments indicated 
that the majority of the Board found the proposed guidelines too restrictive. 

3302 
11/25/70 
-8-
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the ability of a bank to 
issue subordinated notes should be determined principally by the 
discipline of the market. Governor Maisel suggested that the issuance 
of notes should generally be approved unless it was apparent that the 
notes were being issued in order to avoid the provisions of Regula-
tions D and Q, and Governors Daane and Sherrill concurred in that 
approach. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concern about uniformity of 
approach among Federal Reserve Banks under any delegation of authority. 
Accordingly, he proposed that procedures be specified sufficiently so 
that the Reserve Banks would have adequate guidance. 
Following further comments, the matter was referred to Governor 
Mitchell for additional discussion by the Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Bernard, Partee, Robert Solomon, Hackley, O'Connell, and Axilrod, and 
Miss Wolcott withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Class C directors. The Board reappointed John M. Fox as a 
Class C director at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1971. The Board also appointed Louis W. 
Cabot. presently a Class C director, as Deputy Chairman of the Bank for 
the year 1971. 

11/25/70 
-9-
Discount rates. The Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and 
Minneapolis on November 16 and November 24, 19 70, respectively, had 
established, subject to review and determination by the Board of 
Governors, a rate of 5-1/2 per cent (rather than 5-3/4 per cent) on 
discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 6 per cent (rather than 6-1/4 
per cent) on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act, 
and a rate of 7 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of 
section 13 of the Act. It was reported that similar action might be 
taken by other Reserve Banks before the end of the week. 
There was general agreement that some reduction in the dis-
count rate was in order, and comments were directed principally toward 
the frequency with which changes should be made, the question of timing 
in terms of effect upon the market, and the relationships between 
short-term rates and the Euro-dollar market. It was the consensus 
that all of the Reserve Banks should be made aware, on a confidential 
basis, that the question of a discount rate change was under active 
consideration by the Board. 
Following discussion, it was decided to take no action at this 
time on the rates established by the Boston and Minneapolis Banks but 
to consider the matter further next week. 

3 3 0 4 
11/25/70 
-10-
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point, as 
did Mr. Bernard, and appropriate members of the staff reentered, along 
with the following: 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Anderson and Smith, Assistant Directors, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Subordinated notes. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to Summit State Bank of Richfield-Bloomington, Richfield, Minnesota, 
approving the issuance of subordinated capital notes. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
In a memorandum dated November 10, 1970, the Legal Division 
referred to the practice of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., 
Richmond, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, of using 
employees and facilities of its subsidiary banks in effecting the 
distribution of an issue of subordinated capital notes of the holding 
company. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency had questioned 
the practice and had directed that neither the premises nor employees 
of subsidiary national banks be so used. In sending the Board a copy 
of this directive, the Comptroller suggested that if the Board were 
in agreement with the position taken, the Board might wish to make its 
views known to Virginia Commonwealth and other registered bank holding 

3305 
11/25/70 
-11-
companies. The Legal Division discussed the applicability of section 
21 of the Banking Act of 19 33 to the situation, enumerated reasons why 
the Comptroller's position should be supported, and recommended that 
Virginia Commonwealth be advised that the sale of its subordinated 
capital notes through the use of any of its subsidiary bank facilities 
might constitute a violation of section 21 of the Banking Act of 19 33, 
and in any case was not, in the Board's view, an appropriate banking 
practice. Attached was a draft letter along these lines. 
There was general agreement that a position in line with that 
of the Comptroller would be appropriate. However, note was taken of 
the undercapitalized condition of the holding company. Language changes 
were suggested that would reflect an awareness of that situation, but 
at the same time stand firmly in line with the Comptroller's directive. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares in the form 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Annex building. A memorandum from Governor Sherrill dated 
August 24, 19 70, recommending that the Board authorize the necessary 
actions to award a contract before the end of 1970 for construction 
of the proposed annex building had been discussed at Board meetings 
on August 27 and November 19, 1970, but each time a decision had been 
deferred. 

3306 
11/25/70 
-12-
Comments indicated that members of the Board viewed the 
recommendation favorably. Also, before withdrawing from the meeting 
today, Chairman Burns had expressed a willingness for the Board to 
act in his absence. However, Governor Daane expressed the view that 
all Board members should participate in such a decision. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the matter would be brought 
back for a vote on Friday, November 27, when it was expected that all 
members of the Board would be present. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Johnson then withdrew from the meeting. 
Salaries of Reserve Bank officers. In order to prepare for 
discussions during the forthcoming meeting of the Conference of Chair-
men of the Federal Reserve Banks, the Committee on Organization, Compen-
sation, and Building Plans requested the views of the Board on ques-
tions that had been raised with respect to the payment of salaries to 
certain Federal Reserve Bank Presidents, First Vice Presidents, and 
other high-ranking officers. 
Following discussion of those questions, as presented by Gover-
nor Maisel, Chairman of the Committee, the Board came to the conclusions 
outlined below: 
1. The ceiling of the range for the salary of the President 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York should be maintained at the 

3307 
11/25/70 
-13-
present figure of $90,000. (Governors Daane and Brimmer would have 
been willing to adjust the ceiling upward, the former as high as 
$100,000 and the latter to $95,000.) Payment of salary to the Presi-
dent of the Bank at the annual rate of $90,000 for 1971 would be 
approved. 
2. The ceiling of the range for the salary of the First Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York should be maintained 
at $60,000. Payment of salary to the First Vice President of the 
Bank at the annual rate of $60,000 for 1971 would be approved. 
3. The ceiling of the range for the position of Senior Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York should be maintained 
at $55,000, but payment of salary to Senior Vice Presidents Holmes and 
Coombs at the annual rate of $57,000 for 1971 would be approved. 
(Governor Robertson would have favored limiting the respective salary 
figures to $55,000.) 
4. No exception to the salary guidelines should be made in the 
case of the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and he 
should therefore be continued at his present salary for 1971. (Governor 
Daane would have favored permitting an exception to the guidelines and 
an increase in salary up to $6,000.) 
1 
5. An exception to the salary guidelines should be permitted 
in the case of the First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 

3308 
11/25/70 
-14-
Minneapolis, and an increase of $3,500 in the incumbent's salary for 
19 71 would be approved, with the understanding, however, that no fur-
ther salary increases would be approved for the remainder of the incum-
bent's tenure in office. (Governor Robertson would have preferred 
to adhere to the provisions of the salary guidelines.) 
6. An exception to the salary guidelines should be permitted 
in the case of the First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City, and an increase of $1,000 in the incumbent's salary 
for 1971 would be approved, with the understanding, however, that that 
amount would be subtracted from any further increase that might be 
recommended for the incumbent for 1972 under the provisions of the 
guidelines. 
7. Annual salary at the rate of $67,500 for 1971 for the 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago would be approved, in 
conformity with an understanding reached during the negotiations rela-
tive to the filling of that position earlier this year. 
This concluded the discussion of questions that had arisen 
with respect to the salary levels to be fixed for individual Presidents 
and certain other high-ranking Reserve Bank officers for 19 71. It was 
anticipated that other recommended salaries for Presidents and First 
Vice Presidents would fall within the provisions of the salary guidelines. 

3303 
11/25/70 
-15-
Consideration then was given to suggestions that had been 
received from the Deputy Chairman of the Minneapolis Bank that the 
Board institute a system for reviewing periodically the performance 
of Presidents and First Vice Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks, 
assign ratings as the result of such review, and advise the directors 
of the respective Banks. 
After discussion of problems that might be encountered in such 
a procedure, the question of what, if anything, might usefully be done 
along the lines suggested was referred to the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans for further study. 
At the suggestion of Governor Maisel, the Board reaffirmed its 
position that Presidents and First Vice Presidents of Federal Reserve 
Banks were expected to resign their positions upon reaching age 65 
even if the term of office to which they had been appointed had not 
by that time expired. 
It was suggested that the Chairman of the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans confirm to the Chairmen of the respective 
Reserve Banks as to the eligibility of Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
of the respective Banks for salary increases in 1971 under the provisions 
of the salary guidelines. 
It was stated, and noted without objection, that it would be 
in accord with procedures heretofore followed for the Committee on 

3310 
11/25/70 
-16-
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans to advise the Chairmen 
of the respective Reserve Banks of the approval of salaries fixed by 
the directors of the Bank for the President and First Vice President 
for 1971 if the salary so fixed fell within the terms of the salary 
guidelines. 
being sent to the members of the Board with regard to adjustments 
being made in the statistical series on the money supply and that 
questions on that subject could be addressed to the staff by Board 
members during the next weekly economic and financial review. 
Money supply statistics. It was noted that a memorandum was 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3311 
Item No. 1 
11/25/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 
per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of 
First Security State Bank of 
Springville, Springville, Utah, a 
proposed new Sank. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Security Corporation, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of First Security State Bank of 
Springville, Springville, Utah, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Financial 

3312 
| 
Institutions of the State of Utah, and requested his Views and recommen-
dation. The Commissioner responded that he had no objection to approval 
of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the Federal 
Register on September 3, 1970 (35 Federal Register 14027), providing an 
opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the application so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, and provided further 
that (c) First Security State Bank of Springville shall be open for business 
not later than six months after the date of this Order. The periods described 
in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 25, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3313 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION, SALT LAKE CITY, UTAH, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST SECURITY STATE BANK OF SPRINGVILLE, SPRINGVILLE, UTAH 
STATEMENT 
First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per 
cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of First 
Security State Bank of Springville, Springville, Utah ("Bank"), a proposed 
new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
the application to the Commissioner of Financial Institutions of the 
State of Utah, and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Commissioner responded that he had no objection to approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

3314 
-2-
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
In cach case, the Board is required to take into consideration the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Utah control about 82 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits in the State.Applicant is the largest banking organi-
2/ 
zation in the State by virtue of its control of two banks (50 offices)-
with total deposits of $508 million, which represent 30 per cent of the 
deposits in the State. Since Bank is a proposed new bank, consummation 
of the proposal would not increase Applicant's share of State-wide deposits. 
Bank would be located in Springville, five miles south of 
Provo, and would be the second bank operating in that city. It would 
be competing in the Utah County market, where Applicant, with control 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1969. 
Additionally, Applicant controls an Idaho bank ($375 million deposits) 
and a Wyoming bank ($10 million deposits). 

3315 
-2-
of 32.2 per cent of the deposits and 31.6 per cent of the banking offices, 
is the largest of eight banking organizations. Four offices of Applicant's 
subsidiaries are situated within 7„5 miles of the proposed bank site. 
Since Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing competition 
would be eliminated. Its principal competitor would be the other 
Springville bank, which has been operating as the only bank in Spring-
ville for the last 33 years. 
That bank has experienced continued 
growth and is in healthy condition; moreover, it has an application 
pending to establish a branch in the adjacent community of Mapleton, 
which, if granted, would make it the only bank in Mapleton. Hence, 
consummation of the proposal should result in increased competition 
in the Springville-Mapleton area. 
Applicant's position in the market is not likely to increase 
substantially through acquisition of Bank. A large number of Springville-
Mapleton residents are currently customers of Applicant's subsidiaries 
in Provo and Spanish Fork, and, to a large extent, Bank's growth 
can be expected to come at the expense of Applicant's other subsidiaries. 
Moreover, the growth of the Springville area and the increased 
business activity deriving from the construction of a large industrial 
park just north of the city should provide new banking opportunities 
for present or potential competitors. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 

the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade 
in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant and its subsidiaries are in satisfactory financial condition, 
with competent management, and favorable prospects. 
Bank has no financial history. It will open with satisfactory 
capital. Its management, which will be largely provided by Applicant, 
is competent, and its prospects are satisfactory. 
Banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
and Bank are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communties involved. - The 
Springvilie-Mapleton area is being served by only one bank and has 
an established need for an additional full-service bank, which Applicant' 
proposal would provide. At the present time, a substantial number of 
residents commute to Provo and Spanish Fork to do their banking business. 
Bank, through its affiliation with Applicant, would be able to offer 
credit card programs, investment services, electronic data processing, 
trust services, and would have capability for making larger loans 
through participations with affiliates. Such variety of services cannot 
usually be offered by a nex^ly-established independent bank. 
Considerations regarding the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved weigh heavily in support of approval of the appli-
cation. 

3317 
-2-
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction vould be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
November 25, 1970. 

3318 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
We dissent from the action taken by the majority in this 
case. In our opinion, consummation of the proposal will have an 
adverse competitive effect which is not outweighed by the con-
venience and needs of Springville-Mapleton or any other coirmunity. 
Moreover, we are most seriously concerned that the reasoning of 
the majority represents a philosophy which departs from previous 
Board decisions and which is in conflict with the spirit and thrust 
of the Act which we are required to administer. 
The record in this case provides the clearest possible 
evidence that approval of Applicant's proposal will foreclose new 
entry into the concentrated market which Applicant dominates. On 
February 13, 1970, Applicant filed with the Commissioner of Financial 
Institutions of the State of Utah an application to organize Bank 
in Springville, within eight miles of four offices of present sub-
sidiaries. On February 25, 1970--only twelve days later— an indepen-
dent group filed an application to establish a new bank in the same 
community. Oh August 5, 1970., the.'Conirlssioner issued Orders approving 
Applicant's proposal and denying that of the independent group, indicating 
that the actions were based on his conclusion that there is no present 
justification for two additional banks in Springville and his view 
that, under those circumstances, he was required to approve the 
application filed first, if such application met legal requirements. 

3 3 1 9 
-2-
At the request of the independent group, the Commissioner, on 
August 14, 1970, amended his Order and Issued additional findings: 
the amended Order provides that, in the event Applicant's proposal 
should be found to be legally insufficient or in the event Applicant 
should fail to obtain the approval of this Board to acquire Bank, 
the application of the independent group would be approved. 
We find this case to be controlled by the precedent of the 
Board's decision in the matter of the application of First Wisconsin 
Bankshares Corporation ("First Wisconsin") to acquire First Wisconsin 
National Bank of Greenfield, a proposed new bank to be located in a 
Milwaukee suburb, which application was denied on November 27, 1968 
(1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1024). First Wisconsin, with 17.4 per 
cent of State deposits, was the largest banking organization in Wis-
consin, and Applicant, with 30,1 per cent, is the largest banking 
organization in Utah. First Wisconsin held 33.3 per cent of deposits 
in the relevant market, and Applicant holds 32.2 per cent of the deposits 
in the relevant market. In each case the proposal involved formation 
by the Applicant of a jde novo bank in an area that apparently could 
support only one new bank^ an area into which the Applicant could 
not branch, and an area Into which other organizers sought to establish 
an independent bank. In this case, even more clearly than First 
Wisconsin, denial of the application will result in a new consumer 
alternative entering the market, thereby creating additional com-
petition and a potential for deconcentration. 

3-
3 3 ^ 0 
In denying the application of First Wisconsin, the Board 
cited favorably the principle established in an earlier case involving 
a different proposed acquisition by First Wisconsin: 
"If every newly developing need for banking facilities 
which arises in a concentrated market were to be filled 
by the marketfs dominant organization, any meaningful 
deconcentration of the market's banking resources would 
be made impossible, and further concentration might be 
encouraged. Each application by such an organization to 
expand within its present trade area, even through 
acquisition of a new bank, must therefore be examined to 
determine its probable effect on existing concentration, 
whether it will foreclose an opportunity for new entry 
which could provide additional competition and possibly 
promote a decrease in concentration, and its effect in 
limiting the development of existing competitors located . 
in or near the area to be served by the new institution."-
The Board further noted that " . . . the law is no less opposed 
to a proposal which suppresses the development of competition than to 
one which eliminates competition which already exists." (1968 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 1027). Yet, the majority, in discussing the competitive 
effects of Applicant's proposal, completely ignores its effect of 
suppressing competition which is certain and imminent. It is incon-
ceivable that, had the independent group rather than Applicant been 
authorized to establish Bank, the Board xrauld or lawfully could have 
approved its acquisition by Applicant, in view of the competitive 
circumstances in Utah County. It is even more inconceivable that the 
majority can conclude that the accidcnt of less than two weeks difference 
1/ 1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 645, 647-43. 

3321 
-2-
in the time of filing the charter applications causes such anticompetitive 
effect to diminish to an insignificance unworthy of mention. In view 
of the decision of the Utah Commissioner, the Board's decision today 
authorizes elimination of competition as surely as would approval of 
the acquisition of an existing bank. 
The majority's only allusion to the relative merits of 
Applicant's proposal and the competitive alternative being foreclosed 
is the finding, in its "convenience and needs" discussion, that the 
"variety of services [to be offered by Bank] cannot usually be offered 
by a newly-established bank." The majority provides no analysis of the 
need of the Springville community for the additional services which 
allegedly would be provided or the extent to which any such need cannot 
be met by Applicant's present Utah County subsidiaries, the other bank 
in Springville, or other banks in the market. Moreover, in making 
the apparent determination that "big banking organizations serve better 
than small ones", it ignores the significant contributions which have 
been and are being made by smaller banks throughout the country. 
Our national economic philosophy, implemented by the Bank 
Holding Company Act and the antitrust laws, Is based upon the premises 
that: (1) oligopoli stic markets tend to become stagnant in regard to 
the services offered, and (2) markets with the greatest number of 
alternatives tend to result in better services to the public. As the 
number of competitors increase, the communities reap the direct benefits 
through additional conveniences and improved services. These premises 

5 
3 3 2 2 
are validated by experience; in banking, no less than in other industries, 
major competitive innovations are frequently introduced by smaller to . 
medium-sized market participants. 
It is for this reason that the mandate of the Act is that 
anticompetitive acquisitions are to be approved only when the adverse 
effects on competition are clearly outweighed by considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities involved. Evidence of 
clear outweighing is not provided by an uncritical acceptance of 
the attractions of bigness, but only by cogent analysis of the extent 
to which needs exist which cannot reasonably be met by competitively 
preferable alternatives. 
Such an analysis of the facts of the instant case reveals 
no needs which could not be met by an independent bank, in conjunction 
with present market participants. 
Springville is a residential and agricultural community 
(population 8,780) and has little business activity. The largest 
enterprises are four construction firms. The largest employer is 
the local newspaper, and the next two largest firms employ less than 
10 persons each. For the most part, Springville residents must commute 
to jobs in Provo and other nearby communities. Without any undue 
inconvenience, they can and do take advantage of the extra services 
that they may occasionally need which are provided by full service 
banks in those coirmunities; it is likely that they will continue to 
do so even if a full service bank is established in Springville. 

3323 
-2-
It should be clear that a small residential community, which cannot 
provide sufficient jobs for its residents, has no great need for 
all the possible services that a bank may be authorized to conduct. 
Two of the major services which the majority states will 
be provided by Bank are loan participations through affiliates and 
trust services. There is no reason to believe that an independent 
bank could not offer participations in large loans. As to trust 
services, Bank will be referring customers to Applicant's subsidiaries 
in Provo and Spanish Fork. This represents no new convenience; 
many Springville residents are currently doing their trust business 
there. Of course, Bank is expected to establish its own trust 
department once it becomes large enough to do so; but the same would 
apply to any other bank. 
Our analysis indicates that the overriding need of the 
Springville-Mapleton and Utah County communities is for additional 
competitive banking facilities. The majority's decision makes 
satisfaction of that need more difficult and less likely. 
We would deny the application. 
November 25, 1970. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
3324 
• 
cowL*. 
• r 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
11/25/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 25, 1970 
Mr. George F. Kugler, Jr. 
Attorney General 
State of New Jersey 
Department of Law and Public Safety 
State House Annex 
Trenton, New Jersey 08625 
Dear Mr. Kugler: 
This acknowledges your letter dated November 9, 1970, 
enclosing a draft statement of procedures for the safekeeping of 
personal property of the New Jersey Division of State Lottery 
by Scate and national banks, and requesting a ruling as to the 
applicability of the provision of 12 U.S.C. § 339 to a proposed 
agreement reflecting the draft procedures between the State 
Lottery and certain New Jersey State member banks. 
Upon review of the outline of proposed procedures the 
Board of Governors interposes no objection to participation by 
New Jersey State member banks in an agreement with the State 
Lottery of the nature enclosed in your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

•f«AL 
RE^" 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
11/25/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 25, 1970 
Board of Directors 
Summit State Bank 
of Richfielcl-Bloomington 
Richfield, Minnesota 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System has approved the 
issuance of $100,000 in subordinated notes by Summit State 
Bank of Richfield-Bloomington, Richfield, Minnesota. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/25/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 25, 1970 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc. 
800 East Main Street 
Richmond, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
It has come to the Board's attention that Virginia Commonwealth 
Bankshares, Inc. is issuing and Felling to the public $6,000,000 aggre-
gate principal amount of its Subordinated Capital Notes due 1975, 1980, 
and 1985. The prospectus relating to this issue indicates that the 
employees of Bankshares' subsidiary banks participate in the distribution 
of these securities by soliciting and accepting subscriptions for the 
notes. Further, advertisements of Bankshares appearing in Washington, D. C. 
newspapers in recent weeks specifically name its subsidiary banks in the 
area and indicate that copies of the prospectus may be obtained at such 
banks or that they can be phoned for additional information. 
Section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 378) makes it 
unlawful for "any person . . . engaged in the business of issuing, under-
writing, selling, or distributing, at wholesale or retail . . . bonds, 
debentures, notes, or other securities, to engage at the same time to any 
extent whatever in the business of receiving deposits subject to 
check . . . ." 
It appears that the use of the employees and premises 
of 
any of Bankshares' subsidiary banks, State or national, member or 
nonmember, to effect the sale and distribution of Bankshares' Subordi-
nated Capit 
al Notes may constitute a violation of this statute. In tiny 
event, however, the Board is of the opinion that, considering the 
apparent purpose of the issuance of the obligations, your use of bank 
employees and facilities, in the circumstances described, is an inap-
propriate banking practice and suggests that it be discontinued. In 
this connection, it is noted that the Comptroller of the Currency has 
directed that neither the promises nor the employees of Bankshares' 
national bank subsidiaries be used in the sale or distribution of Bank-
shares' Subordinated Capital Notes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
•••r^f:--
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
