MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 5, 1969 

2 4 4 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 5, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hester, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Bernard and Spencer of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Lynch of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Kline, and Sanford of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hubert White of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Foreign banking matters. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
t o Marine Midland International Corporation, New York, New York, amending 
th® terms of the Board's consent (reflected in its letter of July 1, 1969) 

2450 
8/5/69 
-2-
to the acquisition by Marine Midland Overseas Corporation, New York, 
New York, of the shares of Marine Midland G.m.b.H., a company to be 
formed in Germany, and, directly or indirectly, shares of another German 
holding company. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Bank of America, 
New York, New York, granting consent to its proposed acquisition of 
additional shares of World Banking Corporation Limited, Nassau, Bahamas, 
and subscription to certain nil-paid but callable shares. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of First National Bank of Huntsville, 
Huntsville, Texas, with Walker County National Bank, also of Huntsville, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the conclusion stating that the proposed merger (which was merely a 
transaction to facilitate the acquisition of First National Bank of 
Huntsville by First Huntsville Corporation, a newly-formed holding company) 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, California, and 
c°ast National Bank in Fort Bragg, Fort Bragg, California, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
fading as follows: 
There would appear to be no competition existing between 
Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, and Coast 
National Bank in Fort Bragg, and potential for competition 
between them is limited. Consummation of the proposed merger 

S 2 4 5 1 
8/5/69 
-3-
would represent a slight increase in the level of banking 
concentration in the State. The overall competitive effect 
would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Central Carolina Bank & Trust Company, Durham, North Carolina, 
and Bank of Pittsboro, Pittsboro, North Carolina, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between 
Central Carolina Bank and Trust Company, Durham, and Bank 
of Pittsboro, Pittsboro, and the overall competitive effect 
of the proposal would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
Purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Mount Pleasant State 
Bank, Mount Pleasant, Pennsylvania, by Pittsburgh National Bank, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is virtually no competition between Pittsburgh 
National Bank and Mount Pleasant State Bank; however, the 
proposal would eliminate some potential for competition. 
The proposed transaction would also increase the degree of 
concentration in a banking market that is already heavily 
concentrated. The overall effect of the proposed transaction 
on competition would be adverse. 
Charter New York. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting approval on July 17, 1969, of the application of 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire the outstanding 
voting shares (except directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by 
Merger to The Fulton County National Bank and Trust Company of Gloversville, 
Gloversville, New York. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 3. 

*> t t-O 
8/5/69 
-4-
Baltimore-Washington Clearing Center. By letter dated May 7, 
1969, the Board had advised President Heflin of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond that it saw no reason why he should not submit to the 
Bank's Board of Directors a formal proposal for the establishment at 
the Baltimore Branch of a regional check clearing center to serve as a 
clearing house for commercial banks within a 40-mile radius of Washington, 
D. C. The Center was to include a relay station in Washington to equalize 
the advantages for Baltimore and Washington area banks. 
By letter dated July 21, 1969, President Heflin advised that 
the directors had approved the recommendation and that if approval was 
granted by the Board of Governors it was planned to begin operations on 
January 2, 1970. The Reserve Bank subsequently informed the Board that 
repairs and alterations to the Baltimore Branch building at a cost of 
$125 ,000 would be necessary and that operating expenses of the clearing 
center for the first year were estimated at $1,005,000, which expenses 
would be partially offset by an estimated reduction of $74,000 at the 
head office in Richmond due to diversion of checks to Baltimore. 
Pursuant to the recommendation contained in a memorandum from 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated August 1, 1969, 
the Board approved unanimously the establishment of the clearing center 
and the sending of a letter to President Heflin in the form attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Fund-Bank meetings. Pursuant to the recommendation contained 
i n a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated August 1, 1969, 

5 3 
8/5/69 
-5-
the Board authorized the holding of a reception at the Federal Reserve 
Building on the afternoon of October 1, 1969, for central bank officials 
attending the annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund, the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, and related 
organizations. The cost of the reception was estimated at $1,300. 
The Board's action was understood to constitute approval of 
any resulting overexpenditure in the pertinent account or accounts in 
the Board's 1969 budget. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On July 24, 1969, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago had established, subject to the approval of 
the Board of Governors, a rate of 7 per cent (rather than the existing 
6 per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 7-1/2 per cent on advances 
to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act, and a rate of 8 per cent 
on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
In a letter of July 28, 1969, President Scanlon identified 
reasons underlying the action taken by the directors, including 
difficulties experienced in administering the discount window, particu-
larly for country banks, in view of the wide differential between the 
discount rate and relevant market interest rates. 
In discussion of the matter it was noted that borrowings by 
country banks in the Seventh District had risen rather substantially 

0 .*» (h*-* 
8/5/69 
-6-
over the past several weeks, both in dollar amount and in relation to 
borrowing by country banks throughout the System generally. 
Mr. Holland reported, in this connection, that during the most 
recent telephone conference, two or three weeks ago, it had been the 
consensus of the Reserve Bank discount officers that although some 
pressures existed the problem of administration of the discount window 
was still manageable. He added that it was planned to hold another 
telephone conference with the discount officers tomorrow afternoon. 
Question was raised by a Board member whether consideration 
should be given to sending a letter to the discount officers urging 
them to be particularly careful in scrutinizing borrowing applications 
in the present circumstances. However, since a view was expressed 
that such a procedure could create misunderstandings, it was agreed 
a s an alternative that Mr. Holland would explore the problem fully with 
the discount officers during the telephone conference, after which he 
would report back to the Board. 
The action taken by the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago was then disapproved by unanimous vote, with the understanding 
that a letter reflecting the decision would be sent to the Reserve Bank. 
A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Lunding is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
yf 
Secretary 

B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/5/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
AUG 5 1969 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
250 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10017 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to the Board's letter of July 1, 1969, 
n yhich the Board granted consent for your wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Marine Midland Overseas Corporation ("MMOC"), New York, New York, 
purchase and hold 100 per cent of the shares of Marine Midland 
G.m.b.H, ("MMGH"), Germany, and directly or indirectly up to 30 per 
C e n t 
the shares of a German holding company ("KKB Holding Company") 
at an aggregate cost of $7,235,000. 
In response to MMOC's request of July 8, 1969, and on the 
sis of information furnished, the Board amends its consent to pro-
vide for the capitalization of MMGH to consist of the Deutsche Mark 
equivalent of approximately $1,500,000 in share capital and approxi-
mately $5,735,000 in the form of a loan with a maturity in excess of^ 
one year. 
In all other respects, the provisions of the Board's con-
sent of July i8 1969, will remain the same. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kexj.-eth A. Ken;on 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/5/69 
ii'lSG 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R D t S P O N O E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 5, 1969. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10004 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 4, 1969, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("B of A") to purchase 
and hold an additional 157,500 fully-paid shares of World Banking 
Corporation Limited ("W3C"), Nassau, Bahamas, at a cost of approxi-
mately $1,277,125, and to subscribe to an additional 913,500 nil-paid 
shares of WBC, constituting an additional obligation to WBC of approx-
imately $5,395,950, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
r°m the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is also 
Slanted for the purchase and holding of shares of WBC by your Corpora-
tion in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the pro-
visions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S„C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve 
Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and subscrip-
tion of additional shares of WBC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That B of A shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of WBC if WBC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if WBC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in the 
Bahamas or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to B of A; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, B of A 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of WBC as it may require from time to time; 

^ i v ) / 
Bank of America 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WBC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if WBC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; 
and 
(4) That B of A shall not carry on its books the shares of 
WBC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of WBC, after giving 
effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by WBC in the Bahamas in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
Association, and By-Laws of WBC. 
The Board has noted that as of June 30, 1969, the foreign 
loans and investments of your Corporation, Bank of America National 
Trust and Savings Association, and Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the for-
eign credit restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent 
l s given with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with 
the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made 
within those guidelines; and that due consideration is being given 
t o the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 1 
8/5/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
' 
New York, New York, 
1 
• 
for approval of acquisition of voting ' 
shares of the successor by merger to 
1 
The Fulton County National Bank and 
' 
Trust Company of Gloversville, 
1 
Gloversville, New York. 
1 
I 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, for the Board's prior approval of 
r ' 8 
i 
' 
the acquisition of all of the outstanding voting shares (leas 
directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The 
Fulton County National Bank and Trust Company of Gloversville, 
Gloversville, New York. 
4 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

.1 
9 1 t:r 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 
As discussed in the accompanying Statement, the New York 
S t^te Banking Board approved an application involving the same pro-
posal in accordance with a recommendation of the New York State Superin-
tendent of Banks, and advised this Board of its action. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 20, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7935), which pro-
vided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
w*th respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application 
*>as forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(«) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
0 r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless #uch 
Period ia extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
'Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C-v this 5th day of August 1969. 
By order of the Board o f Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
(SEAL) 
Assistant Secretary. 

2 4 6 0 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION 
OF VOTING SHARES OF THE SUCCESSOR BY MERGER 
TO THE FULTON COUNTY NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY OF GLOVERSVILLE, 
GLOVERSVILLE, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
for 
i 
prior approval of the acquisition of all of the outstanding voting 
shares, except for directors1 qualifying shares, of a new national bank 
i n t o which it proposes to merge The Fulton County National Bank and 
Trust Company of Gloversville, Gloversville, New York ("Fulton National"). 
The new national bank into which Fulton National is to be merged has 
n o significance except as a vehicle for accomplishing the acquisition 
t h e bank to be merged into it; the proposal is therefore treated 
herein as one to acquire shares of Fulton National, 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
o f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
a n d recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h e application. 
Pursuant to the requirements of Article III-A of the New York 
Banking Law, Applicant submitted an application involving the same 

-2-
proposal to the New York State Banking Board. The Banking Board approved 
the application on July 2t 1969, in accordance with the recommendation 
the New York Superintendent of Banks, a copy of which was trans-
mitted to the Board of Governors. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a n y P a r t of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other 
Proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
m a y b e substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the trans-
ition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
e^fect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
l n t o consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant 
1/ 
controls $3.9 billion in deposits, and is the eighth largest banking 
°r8anization and the third largest bank holding company in the State of 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
eter to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company acquisitions 
and mergers approved by supervisory authorities to date. 

New York, its four subsidiary banks account for 4,81 per cent of the 
. 
',"•••'••• 
> 
deposits held by all banks located In the State. Consummation of the 
i 
present proposal would increase Applicant's share of such deposits to 
4.84 per cent. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary bank is Irving Trust Company, 
which has deposits of $3.7 billion, and is the seventh largest bank 
l n New York City. Its other subsidiary banks are The Merchants National 
B a n k & Trust Company, Syracuse ($186 million deposits), Endicott Trust 
Company, Endicott ($57 million deposits), and Dutchess Bank & Trust 
Company, Poughkeepsie ($33 million deposits). 
Fulton National ($23 million deposits) is the smaller of two 
banks headquartered in Gloversville and in Fulton County, and ranks 
seventeenth in deposit size among 36 banks located in New York's Fourth 
Banking District. Nearly all of the deposits of Fulton National are 
derived from an area which includes all of Fulton and Montgomery Counties, 
t h e southern portion of Hamilton County and the westernmost portion of 
Saratoga County. Within this area are 20 offices of eight banks, in-
cluding a l l three offices of Fulton National. Four of the eight banks 
a r e headquartered in the area, and four are headquartered in the adjoin-
ing Albany-Schenectady-Troy metropolitan area. Fulton National is the 
atnallest of the banks in overall deposit size, and the sixth largest 
f' ;; \ 
... _ 
the eight in terms of local deposits. The two banks with smaller 

2 M S 3 
-4-
shares of local deposits are both subsidiaries of large bank holding 
companies. It does not appear that the viability or competitive effec-
tiveness of any of Fulton National's competitors would be adversely 
affected by consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
None of Applicant's subsidiary banks is located in the Fourth 
Banking District and no office of any of the subsidiary banks is closer 
than 100 miles to any of Fulton National's offices. The present sub-
sidiaries of Applicant derive no significant amounts of deposits or 
loans from within the area served by Fulton National, and Fulton 
National does not compete to any significant extent outside of that 
area. Acquisition of Fulton National by Applicant, therefore, would 
n o t eliminate existing competition. Further, in view of the small size 
°f Fulton National, its location relative to present Applicant subsid-
iaries, and the prohibition of New York law against inter-district branch-
ing* it does not appear that significant potential competition would be 
foreclosed by the proposal. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the appli-
cation and consummation of the proposal would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
•A 
°f the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
^ e financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 13 satis-
factory, and their prospects appear favorable. Applicant's management 

is regarded as experienced and "competent; as is that of its subsidiary 
'banks. 
Fulton National's condition is also regarded as satisfactory, 
a s is its management, and its prospects are favorable; thus, consider-
ations relating to the banking factors are consistent with approval 
o f the application. 
Convenience and needs,of the .communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on cus-
tomers of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
It appears that all major banking services are available in 
-the area served by Fulton National from banks located in and near that 
area. However, consummation of the proposal would enable Fulton National 
t° offer a more complete line of banking services, thus constituting it 
a more meaningful alternative source of services now provided by larger 
banks in the area. To that extent, the convenience of the banking public 
the area would be served by approval of the proposal. 
Considerations under this factor lend some weight toward approval 
o f the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 
3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be 
approved. 
August 5, 1969. 

2 4 « 5 . 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
• F T H E 
8/5/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5* 
- 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
!• 
s>> 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
<•5 
August 5, 1969. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richriond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr, Heflin: 
In connection with the request in your letter of 
July 21, the Board approves the establishment of a regional 
check clearing center which will be located at the Baltimore 
Branch. 
It is understood that this center will be set up 
along the lines described in previous material you submitted 
to the Board on this subject; that the operating costs of the 
center are estimated at about $1,005,000 for the first year; 
and that you plan to begin operation of the center on 
January 2, 1970. 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 1 
8/5/69 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E OF THE 
C H A I R M A N 
August 7, 1969. 
iioard of Gov^r.-or^ ox the ,. iral ' R^ac; v.. 
. 
Mr. Franklin. J. Lunding, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Frank: 
This letter is to inform you that the Board voted on 
August 5,. 1969 to disapprove the pending increase in your Bank's 
discount rate to 7 per cent which was established by your board 
of directors on July 24, 1969. This disapproval, of course, was 
also applicable to the rates established under the last paragraph 
of section 13 and under section 10(b). 
In reaching its decision, the Board took cognizance of 
the arguments set forth in the letter of July 28 from Mr. Scanlon 
and in particular gave careful consideration to the increasing 
pressures upon administration of the discount window as a result 
of the wide differential between the current discount rate and 
relevant market interest rates. The Board recognized that contin-
uing diligence would be needed on the part of discount officers to 
prevent abuses of the borrowing privilege. However, for reasons 
similar to those communicated to you earlier in letters dated 
June 27 and July 2, the Board concluded that a change in the 
discount rate would not be desirable at this time and that the 
pending higher rate established by your Bank should be disapproved 
rather than held in abeyance. 
cc: Mr. Scanlon 
