MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 2, 1970 

3 0 2 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 2, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1J 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Miss Ryon of the 
Office of the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reported on legislative developments and Mr. 
Stoffels, of the Capital Markets Section, reviewed margin credit develop-
ments. A more detailed summary was presented in his memorandum dated 
October 23, 1970, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Staff members who had been present for the purpose of the weekly 
review then left the room and other staff members entered to participate 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3 0 3 0 
11/2/70 
-2-
in the consideration of the items on the agenda requiring Board action. 
These included Messrs. Hexter, Assistant to the Board; O'Connell, Gen-
eral Counsel; Noble, Assistant General Counsel; Leavitt, Deputy Director, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation; and Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, 
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision and Regulation, together 
with supporting staff. 
Huntington Bancshares. The Board approved unanimously an appli-
cation by Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of First National Bank and Trust Company of Lima, Lima, Ohio, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that action. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
First Security Corporation. 
The Board considered an application 
of First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares 
of First Security State Bank of Springville, Springville, Utah, a proposed 
new bank. The Banking Markets Section and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had recommended denial, while the Utah Commissioner of 
Financial Institutions and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had 
recommended approval. 
After discussion, it developed that the factors in question, such 
as concentration, competitive effects, and convenience and needs of the 
community, were viewed differently by members of the Board in their assess-
ment of this application, which among other things involved a competing 

3f>31 
11/2/70 
-3-
charter application by a local group. 
In the circumstances, it was con-
cluded that a decision should be deferred until a full Board was present. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Washington, 
Washington, North Carolina, into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, 
North Carolina. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
While there is only a small amount of competition existing 
between Bank of Washington and North Carolina National Bank, 
Charlotte, consummation of the merger would increase the already 
high level of concentration of banking resources in the State in 
a few large banks. 
The overall competitive effect would be 
adverse. 
American International Bank. Consideration was given to an 
application of American International Bank, New York, New York, for per-
mission to acquire shares of Henry Ansbacher & Co., Limited, a merchant 
bank located in London, England. 
It was assumed by the staff that the 
acquisition of the shares would place applicant in a position to exercise 
effective control of Ansbacher. 
The issues involved, as discussed principally in a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated October 28, 1970, were (1) whether an Edge 
corporation engaged in banking could purchase and hold the controlling 
shares of a foreign bank if a substantial portion of the foreign bank's 
loan portfolio would consist of loans to U.S. corporations made abroad, 
but relating to local U.S. projects; (2) if so, whether such authority 

3 0 3 2 
11/2/70 
-4-
would exist even though some of the loans were arranged through the 
parent bank of the Edge corporation and repayment thereof was supported 
by the issuance of a letter of credit by the parent bank, provided such 
loans were closed abroad; and (3) whether an Edge corporation engaged in 
banking could purchase and hold the controlling shares of a foreign bank 
if the foreign bank engaged in underwriting abroad. 
It was the opinion 
of the Legal Division that an Edge corporation engaged in banking could 
purchase and hold the controlling shares of a foreign bank that engaged 
in such activites. Accordingly, the Legal Division joined the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
in recommending that the pending application be approved. 
After a general discussion of the issues stated, the Board 
accepted the conclusion of the staff and approved unanimously a letter 
to American International Bank granting consent to the acquisition of the 
shares. 
(Note: At the Board meeting on November 3, Governor Robertson 
requested reconsideration of the application by the Board. 
It was agreed 
to reconsider the matter; consequently, the letter to the applicant was 
not sent.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3033 
Item NOo 1 
11/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D„ C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, 
Columbus, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First National Bank and 
Trust Company of Lima, Lima, Ohio, 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, 
Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of First National Bank and Trust Company of Lima, Lima, 
Ohio ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller rocemwumded approval of the application., 

3034 
i, 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 10, 1970 (35 Federal Register 14521), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and viextfs with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is the State's third largest holding company 
and sixth largest banking organization controlling seven 
banks 
offices) with total deposits of $644 million, representing 
3.2 per cent of the total bank deposits in the State of Ohio. 
(All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Upon acquisition of Lima Bank ($50 million deposits), Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State would increase to 3»4 per cent. 
Bank, located in Lima, Allen County, is slightly the 
largest of three banks in Lima and of seven banks operating in the 
County with 34 per cent of deposits in the County. Applicant's 

3035 
-3-
nearest subsidiary to Bank i s a n 
o f f i c e 
G f The Bank of Wood County Company 
which is located 42 miles north of Lima, in North Baltimore, Wood County, 
Ohio. Wood County and Allen County are separated by an inter-
vening county. There is no existing competition between Lima 
Bank and that bank or any other of Applicant's subsidiaries. 
Furthermore, in view of the distance separating Lima Bank and 
Applicant's present subsidiaries, and the Ohio law restricting 
branching to the county of the bank's head office, the possibility 
of such competition arising in the future appears remote. Consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition, therefore, would not eliminate 
significant existing competition or foreclose significant potential 
competition, and would not have undue adverse effects on the viability 
or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. The banking factors, 
as applied to the facts of record, are consistent with approval of 
the application. Consummation of the proposal would likely lead to 
broadened lending policies, which have been conservative, and an 
extension of Lima Bank's services. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some 
weight in support of approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction is in the public interest and should be 
approved. 

3036 
-4-
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 2, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Robertson and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
