Minutes for October 1, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act 
an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 
7 
Amendment to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

2760 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 1, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ryon and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Holding company applications. After review of documentation 
that had been distributed, the Board unanimously approved the following 
applications: 

2761 
10/1/70 
-2-
First National State Bancorporation, Newark, New Jersey, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of 
shares of The Warren County National Bank, Washington; 
City National Bank, Hackensack; The Edison Bank, South 
Plainfield; and First National Bank of Spring Lake, 
Spring Lake (all in New Jersey), in addition to those 
of one bank already owned. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wis-
consin, to acquire shares of First National Bank of 
Wausau, Wausau, Wisconsin. 
It was understood that documents to be issued reflecting these 
decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. On the 
Wisconsin case, it was understood that Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
would prepare a concurring statement reflecting their apprehension about 
trends toward concentration in the banking structure of the State, 
particularly in light of the strong position of First Wisconsin Bankshare 
Security Financial Services. After review of documentation that 
had been distributed, the Board unanimously denied the application of 
Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin, to acquire 
shares of Security West Side Bank, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, a proposed new 
bank. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting this 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Bank of Warrenton. The Board unanimously approved a letter to 
Bank of Warrenton, Warrenton, Virginia, approving its application for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 

zrxiz 
10/1/70 
-3-
Rural Community Development Bank. There was discussion con-
cerning the draft of response to a request from the Office of Management 
and Budget for the Board's views on a draft letter prepared by the 
Department of Agriculture to Senator Sparkman commenting on S. 3607, a 
bill "to create a rural community development bank to assist in rural 
community development by making financial, technical, and other assis-
tance available for the establishment or expansion of commercial, indus-
trial, and related private and public facilities and services, and for 
other purposes." 
A number of suggestions were made for changes in the draft that 
were intended generally to reflect agreement with the Agriculture 
Department's interest in rural credit needs but maintain a posture of 
neutrality with regard to the Department's proposed report. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the letter was approved 
in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Nassau "shell" branches. Discussion of a memorandum from the 
Division of International Finance dated September 23, 1970, regarding the 
development and prospects of Nassau "shell" branches was deferred at the 
request of Governor Brimmer to permit the staff to prepare additional 
documentation. 
Discount window procedures. 
In a memorandum dated August 27, 
1970, 
Mr. Hackley outlined the history of consideration within the System 
of certain proposed changes in discount window procedures, on the basis of 

10/1/70 
-4-
which he recommended as follows: 
1. With respect to replacement of application and note forms 
by a form of continuing lending agreement: 
(a) That the Board approve the recommendation of the Presidents' 
Conference that the Reserve Banks use a continuing lending agreement 
substantially in the form proposed by an Ad Hoc Subcommittee of Counsel; 
(b) That the Board approve the recommendation of the Presidents 
Conference that the Reserve Banks incorporate in their circulars with 
respect to discounts and credits uniform provisions substantially like 
those suggested by the Ad Hoc Subcommittee; 
(c) That the Board approve the elimination of application forms 
as a general rule and, in order to implement this change, publish in the 
Federal Register for comment a proposed amendment to Regulation A 
(Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks) in the form attached 
to his memorandum eliminating language that at present appeared to require 
the use of formal application forms; and 
(d) That these changes in practice and procedures be made effec-
tive at some specified date in the future, after final adoption of the 
relevant amendment to Regulation A, that would allow the Reserve Banks 
time within which to prepare for the new procedures. 
2. With respect to the charging of interest on Reserve Bank 
advances: 
(a) That the Board approve the adoption of a practice under 
which interest on Reserve Bank advances would be collected at the time 
of repayment instead of being collected on a discount basis at the time 
an advance is made; 
(b) That the Board approve the adoption of a practice under 
which all changes in discount rates would be immediately applicable to 
outstanding advances; and 
(c) That these changes be made effective at some specified 
future date, which would be the same as the effective date for the other 
changes. 
Mr. Hackley brought out that the proposed changes were aimed at 
replacing outmoded forms and achieving a reasonable degree of uniformity 

2764 
10/1/70 
-5-
among the Reserve Banks (although considerations such as State laws 
might require minor variations). Since the changes were technical and 
procedural, he now recommended that the proposed amendment to Regulation 
A be adopted instead of being published for comment. 
Expressions by members of the Board reflected a view in favor 
of adopting the amendment rather than publishing it for comment, but 
of delaying action on this as well as Mr. Hackley's other recommendations 
for about six weeks. Questions were raised whether, since the Reserve 
Banks would need some lead time for preparatory educational and admin-
istrative tasks, a letter should be sent to inform them of the Board's 
intention. However, reluctance was expressed to making the expectation 
a matter of written communication at this time. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, action was deferred, with 
the understanding, however, that the staff might advise the Reserve Bank 
discount officers informally of the prospect of approval of the proposed 
changes. 
Req uest for advisory opinion. Consideration of a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated September 18, 1970, 
was undertaken. The memorandum related to a request by First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, for an advisory 
opinion as to whether favorable consideration would be given to its 
acquisition of shares of an insurance company in Argentina. The Division 
concluded that the proposed insurance activities did not appear so closely 

Z7G5 
10/1/70 
-6-
related to banking or financing, as conducted in Argentina, as to be 
considered incident thereto and as to warrant an exception to the Board's 
general policy. 
During discussion, it was generally agreed that the circumstances 
of this particular case did not warrant departure from the Board's general 
position since insurance activities were apparently forbidden to Argentine 
banks, at least on a direct basis. 
Agreement was then reached on suggested changes in the proposed 
letter to First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, and the 
letter was approved in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Chairman Burns suggested that, aside from the present case, it 
would be well to study further the basic question whether U.S. banks 
should not be permitted to conduct in foreign countries any business 
permitted to banks in those countries, regardless of whether banks were 
permitted to conduct such business in the United States. 
It was agreed that the Board would consider the question raised 
b
Y Chairman Burns, with the staff to develop preparatory material. 
Methods of computing and compounding interest. 
Consideration 
was given to a memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 2, 1970, 
concerning proposed amendments with regard to computing and compounding 
interest under Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits). 
The Division recommended changes in Regulation Q that would (1) 
allow member banks to compound interest daily or continuously using 360 

276S 
10/1/70 
-7-
rather than 365 as the denominator of a fraction in which the numerator 
is the actual number of days the deposit earns interest, and (2) allow 
member banks to pay simple daily interest using 360 rather than 365 days 
as the denominator of such a fraction. 
The Board authorized publication of the proposed amendments for 
comment, subject to consultation with the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board in view of the interest of those agencies in the 
matter. A copy of the letter sent to the Comptroller of the Currency is 
attached as Item No. 4; similar letters were sent to the other agencies. 
(Note: 
Following this exchange, the proposed amendments to Regulation Q 
were published for comment.) 
Amendment to Regulation D. Pursuant to action on March 24, 1970, 
the Board published for comment a proposed amendment to Regulation D 
(Reserves of Member Banks) that would exclude from the definition of 
"time deposits" in Regulation D "any deposit representing funds which 
are regularly utilized, by action of the depositary bank itself pursuant 
to an express or implied agreement with the depositor, to cover checks 
drawn on the bank by the depositor." A footnote to the proposed amend-
ment would state that "funds deposited by the trust department of a bank 
in its own commercial department are not"time deposits' if regularly 
utilized to cover checks drawn by the trust department." 

27C7 
10/1/70 
-8-
In a memorandum dated August 18, 1970, Governor Robertson 
expressed himself in favor of the amendment recommended by the Legal 
Division, although it seemed to him that a more appropriate way to 
implement its recommendation would be to modify the definition of 
"savings deposits" rather than "time deposits." 
For reasons stated 
in his memorandum, he also favored action to require a member bank to 
pay on time deposits from its trust department interest at the rate it 
was then offering its other customers on comparable deposits. 
On August 27, 1970, the Board requested the staff to explore 
the probable effect of the proposal upon banks. The Division of Super-
vision and Regulation presented the findings of its investigation in a 
memorandum dated September 15, 1970. 
Discussion brought out that the Legal Division now advocated the 
adoption of an amendment in the form Governor Robertson had suggested, 
but without incorporation of his additional suggestion. Governor Robertson 
indicated that he was agreeable to proceeding in that manner. 
Consider-
ation of the procedural question, whether the Board's position should be 
stated in an interpretation or in an amendment, developed a consensus in 
favor of the latter. 
The amendment to Regulation D was thereupon approved unanimously, 
to be effective November 9, 1970. A copy of the amendment, in the form 
in which it was sent to the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 5. 

27m 
10/1/70 
- 9 -
f.O / I 
Bank of Lansing. Governor Robertson referred to the cease-and-
desist orders that had been issued earlier this year to Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, and Bank of Lansing, Lansing, Michigan. 
As explained in his memorandum of September 30, 1970, the orders forbid 
extensions of credit by either of the banks to members of the Parsons 
Group, including banks in which the Parsons Group had a financial interest. 
In Bank of the Commonwealth's case, however, the order authorized the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to permit extensions of credit to such 
banking organizations in certain circumstances, but the same authority 
was not incorporated in the Bank of Lansing order. In order to maintain 
the solvency of a credit card operation started by the Parsons Group and 
taken over by an association of the Parsons' banks, it was now necessary 
for Bank of the Commonwealth to make a loan that would represent an exten-
sion of credit to or for the benefit of the Parsons banking organizations. 
The plan was for Bank of the Commonwealth to place prorated participations 
in this loan with the other banks in the credit card program, including 
Bank of Lansing, and under present conditions the Reserve Bank could not 
authorize the loan in the case of Bank of Lansing. 
Governor Robertson recommended that the Bank of Lansing's order 
be modified to allow the Reserve Bank, as in the case of Bank of the 
Commonwealth, to pass on extensions of credit to or for the benefit of 
the Parsons Group, including the banking organizations. 

2769 
10/1/70 
_10-
The suggested amendment of the order was approved unanimously 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2770 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N Q R S 
•'oOf cow.*-
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
10/1/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 1, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of Warrenton, 
Warrenton, Virginia 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Bank of Warrenton, Warrenton, 
Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $175,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $175,000. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
277X 
Board of Directors 
Bank of Warrenton 
-2-
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank'scharter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Enclosure. 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

;bf cow-''. 
f^i^T-* 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/1/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 1, 1970 
M r . J. F . C. Hyde, Jr. 
Office of the Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20506 
Dear Mr. Hyde: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
August 28, 1970, requesting the Board's views on a draft letter pre-
pared by the Department of Agriculture to Senator Sparkman, commenting 
on S. 3607, a Bill "To create a rural community development bank to 
assist in rural community development by making financial, technical, 
and other assistance available for the establishment or expansion of 
commercial, industrial, and related private and public facilities 
and services, and for other purposes." 
The Board shares the Department's interest in efforts to 
accelerate rural development. Earlier this year, the Board established 
a special committee to study rural credit problems. One concern of 
this committee has been the present lack of knowledge on the extent 
to which rural development is effectively limited by financial rather 
than nonfinancial restraints. Study of this matter, by the Department 
or others, would appear necessary to the development of a properly 
balanced and focused program to foster economic development in rural 
areas. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2 7 7 3 
•V/ 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/1/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of June 3, 1970, 
requesting an advisory opinion from the Board of Governors 
as to whether favorable consideration would be given to the 
acquisition by your Corporation of up to 100 per cent of 
the shares of an insurance company in Argentina. 
According to your letter, Argentine banks do not 
directly hold shares in insurance companies in Argentina, 
and are in fact precluded by Argentine law from doing so. 
On the basis of this and other information furnished, the 
Board has concluded that the insurance business is not usual 
in connection with the transaction of the business of banking 
or other financial operations in Argentina. Therefore, the 
Board would not be prepared to give favorable consideration 
to a proposal for such an acquisition by your Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Z774 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
10/1/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 1, 1970 
The Honorable William B. Camp 
Comptroller of the Currency-
Treasury Department 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
Dear Mr. Comptroller: 
The Board of Governors today considered the enclosed 
memorandum dated September 2, 1970, on "Methods of computing and 
compounding interest under Regulation Q" and decided tc> publish 
the notice of proposed rule making attached thereto. Under the 
proposal, Regulation Q would be amended to permit member banks to 
pay simple daily interest and interest compounded daily or con-
tinuously by using 360 rather than 365 as the denominator of a 
fraction in which the numerator is the actual number of days the 
deposit earns interest. 
In 1968 you and your staff participated with the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
and the Board of Governors in the development of the present 
position that, except in specific circumstances, financial insti-
tutions should compute interest on deposits on a 365-day basis. 
Accordingly, before submitting the notice of proposed rule making 
for publication in the Federal Register, the Board would be glad 
to receive any comments you or your staff might wish to offer on 
the proposal. 
Receipt of your comments by October 9, 1.970, would be 
appreciated. 
If your staff should wish to discuss the matter 
with members of the Board's staff, please have them call Mr. Sanders 
(Ext. 294) or Mr. Greenspan (Ext. 281). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

2775 
• • 
> { 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
, ,| 
• 
Item No. 5 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/1/70 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Transfers from Savings Deposits to Cover Checks 
1. Effective November 9, 1970, § 204.1(e)(1) is amended 
to read as follows: 
§ 204,1 
Derinitions. 
•k 
"k 
if 
it 
* 
Savings deposits. The tern "savings deposit" means a 
deposit--
(1) which consists of funds dep 
osited to the credit of one 
or more individuals, or of a corporation, association, or other 
organization operated primarily for religious, philanthropic, 
charitable, educational, fraternal, or other similar purposes and 
t j 
not operated for profit;- or in which the entire beneficial interest 
is held by one or more individuals or by such a corporation, associa-
tion, or other organization, except where the deposit is to the credit 
of the bank's own trust department and the funds involved are utilized 
to cover checks; and 
4/ Deposits in joint accounts of two or more individuals may be classified 
as savings deposits if they meet the other requirements of the above defi-
nition, but deposits of a partnership operated for profit may not be so 
classified. Deposits to the credit of an individual of funds in which any 
beneficial interest is heLd by a corporation, partnership, association, or 
other organization operated for profit or not operated primarily for 
religious, philanthropic, charitable, educational, fraternal, or other 
similar purposes may not be classified as savings deposits. 

2 7 
- 2 -
2a. By notice of proposed rule making published in the 
Federal Register of April 1, 1970 (35 F.R. 5416), the Board proposed 
to amend § 204.1(b) so as to prevent the use of a time deposit in 
tandem with a checking account for the purpose of avoiding the higher 
demand deposit reserve requirements properly applicable to such funds, 
b. In view of comments received, the amendment adopted is 
narrower in scope than the version proposed for comment. The amend-
ment as adopted is designed to prevent the use of funds deposited 
by a trust department of a member bank in a savings deposit in the 
commercial department of that bank in tandem with a checking account 
so as to avoid the higher demand deposit reserve requirements. 
In 
confining the amendment to savings deposits of a trust department, 
it is intended that the trust department of a member bank may continue 
to classify a certain portion of the funds on deposit in its commercial 
department as a time deposit in accordance with the interpretation 
set forth at § 204.102 (1959 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1475). 
c. The amendment was adopted by the Board after consid-
eration of all relevant material, including communications received 
from interested persons. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 1, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
