w 
t '••V'* 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 17, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 17, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, of the Board Members' Offices 
Messrs. Gramley, Sigel, Williams, Keir, Wernick, 
Eckert, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, 
Kichline, Struble, and Wendel of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Katz, Norwood, Gemmill, Pizer, 
Altmann, and Stem of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review, including today reports by Mr. Kelty on the Government securities 
market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit developments, and by Mr. Stem on 
foreign exchange market developments. Copies of the several charts and 
tables distributed in connection with the review have been placed in 
the Board's files. 

O i * 
10/17/69 
-2-
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Gramley and Norwood withdrew 
from the meeting, as did Messrs. Bernard and Morgan, and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and San Francisco 
on October 16, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Promissory notes. Appropriate background material, including 
staff recommendations, had been submitted to the Board regarding the 
following. The letters were approved unanimously after discussion of 
questions raised by Governor Robertson. Copies are attached under the 
indicated item numbers. 
Item No. 
Letters to Mellon Bank International, 
1-2 
New York, New York, and Citizens and 
Southern International Bank, Miami, 
Florida, respectively, approving the 
issuance of promissory notes of over 
one year to the Export-Import Bank 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed consolidation of The Citizens National 

r)1 ^ O 
o x fVw 
10/17/69 
-3-
Bank and Trust Company, Wellsville, New York, and Olean Trust Company, 
Olean, New York, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of The Citizens 
National Bank and Trust Company, Wellsville, and Olean Trust 
Company would eliminate a small amount of existing and poten-
tial competition. The overall competitive effect would be 
slightly adverse. 
Application of Continental Bank and Trust Company (Items 3 
and 4). There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on October 3, 1969, of the application 
of The Continental Bank and Trust Company, Salt Lake City, Utah, to 
merge with Continental Bank of Midvale, Midvale, Utah. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3173 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE EYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No, 1 
10/17/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TU THE BOARD 
October 17, 1969 
Mellon Bank International 
84 William Street, 
New York, New York. 10038 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your lettar of October 2, 1969, the Bo*rd of Governors 
grants approval for your Corporation to issue and have 
outstanding in accordance with Section 2 5(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, 
promissory notes payable to the Export-Import Rank of 
the United States with maturities in excess of one year 
up to a total of $10,000,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

o'of gov'/ 
3174 
BOARD DF GOVERN GRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/17/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 17, 1969 
Citizens and Southern 
International Bank, 
25 Southeast Second Avenue, 
P. 0. Box 4299, 
Miami, Florida. 33101 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 6, 1969, the Board of Governors 
grants approval for your Corporation tc issue and have 
outstanding in accordance with Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, 
promissory notes payable to the Export-Import Bank of 
the Unitec' States with maturities in excess of one 
year up tc- a total of $5,000,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
10/17/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
THE CONTINENTAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY1 
for approval of merger vith 
1 
Continental Bank of Midvale 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. lG28(c)), an application by 
The Continental Bank and Trust Company, Salt Lake City, Utah, a 
State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
prior approval of the merger of that bank and Continental Bank of 
Midvale, Midvale, Utah, under the charter and name of Salt Lake 
Bank. As an incident to the merger, the office of Continental 
Bank of Midvale uould become a branch of the resulting bank. 
Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has 
been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the fac tors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 

3177 
Item No. 4 
10/17/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AP: LIGATION BY THE CONTINENTAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
CONTINENTAL BANIC OF MIDVALE 
STATEMENT 
The Continental Ban!: and Trust Company, Salt Lake City, 
Utah ("Salt Lake Bank"), uith total deposits of $104 million, has 
applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), for 
the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank uith 
Continental Bank of Midvale, Midvale, Utah ("Midvale Bank"), uhich 
has deposits of $3 million,U 
The banks uould merger under the 
charter and name of Salt Lake Bank, which is a member of the Federal 
Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the office of 
Midvale Bank uould become a branch of Salt Lake Bank, increasing 
the number of its offices to seven. 
Competition, - Salt Lake Bank operates its head office 
and three branches in Salt Lake City (population 200,000); its other 
tuo branches are in adjacent unincorporated areas of Salt Lake 
County. The sole office of Midvale Bank, uhich is also in Salt 
Lake County, is in the city of Midvale (population 6,000) 12 miles 
17Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 

couth of Salt Lake City, The nearest office of Salt Lake Bank 
to Midvale Bank is four and one-half miles north of Midvale, and 
there are offices of tuo other banks in the intervening area. 
The largest bank in Utah operates a branch 3.6 miles south of 
llidvale Bank and the second largest bank in the State operates 
tuo branches uithin 1.2 miles of llidvale Bank. 
Salt Lake Bank, uith 11 per cent of the deposits, is 
the fourth largest of the 15 banks that operate offices in Salt 
Lake County; llidvale Bank, uith 0.3 per cent of such deposits, 
ranks thirteenth. The three largest banks in the County hold 72 per 
cent of the total deposits. 
Other banks are precluded by the home-office-protection 
provision of Utah lau from establishing de novo branches in that 
community. The proposed merger uould remove home-office-protection 
from the city of llidvale. Midvale Bank could establish de novo 
branches in Salt Lake City and both it and Salt Lake Bank could 
establish such branches in unincorporated areas of Salt Lake County. 
The development of competition between the tuo banks, houever, 
appears unlikely. They have had common o^mership since 1956, uhen 
llidvale Bank, uhich uas incorporated in 1911 and the assets of 
which uere sold in 1934, uas reactivated under its original charter. 
The managing officers of llidvale Bank and other personnel have been 
furnished by Salt Lake Bank since 1956. 
The proposed merger uould not have an adverse effect on 
competition. 

u l / 
- 3 -
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors uith respect to each of the banks proposing to 
merge are reasonably satisfactory, as they would be uith respect 
to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of 
the merger on banking convenience and needs uould be limited to the 
area served by Ilidvale Bank, 
The replacement of l-Iidvale Bank by an office of Salt Lake 
Bank uould provide a convenient alternative source of full-scale 
banking services for Ilidvale, as uell as remove home-office-protec-
tion from the community co that other banks could establish de novo 
branches there. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, 
the proposed merger uould benefit the banking convenience of the 
area served by Ilidvale Bank, and uould not have an adverse effect 
on banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
October 17, 1969. 
