... „ 
, „ 
June 18, 1968 
Minutes for 
' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
• Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4 K> 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 18, 1968. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 3:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Ass istant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Harris, Maguire, and White of 
the Division of Examinations 
M u n 
'Ac ;••! 
Application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company. 
There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated May 24, 1968, from the Division 
Examinations, with other pertinent papers, regarding the applica-
^ o n of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
~ .UP 
,•• 
. . . 
t o m e r g e The State Bank, Laurinburg, North Carolina. 
Among other things, the memorandum brought out that the Com-
missioner of Banks of North Carolina had expressed the view that 
^ achovia should not be allowed to go into Laurinburg with a de novo 

/O/O 41 
6/18/68 
-2-
branch, because he thought there was no strong need for another banking 
alternative in the community and that de novo entry by Wachovia would 
have adverse effects on the two banks with headquarters in Laurinburg. 
In a letter of March 14, 1968, to the Board, the Commissioner stated 
that "it is doubted that the Banking Commission of the State of North 
Carolina would approve the establishment of such a de novo office by 
Wachovia. 
Certainly, this office would not recommend it." 
Analysis by the Division of Examinations led to the conclusion 
that there was little, if any, competition existing between Wachovia 
ar*d the Laurinburg bank, and that the prospects of Wachovia's establish-
l ng a de novo branch in Laurinburg were remote. 
While the proposed 
merger would result in a slight increase in the concentration of bank-
ing resources in the State, the Division did not feel that the overall 
c°mpetitive effects would be significantly adverse. 
The community of 
^urinburg was undergoing an economic change from primarily agricultural 
activities to industrialization, and the resources and services of the 
larger bank could better serve the convenience and needs of the commu-
n^ty. 
xhe Division recommended approval. 
{ 
The Banking Markets Section recommended denial, for the follow-
l n 8 reasons: 
(1) 
The overall competitive effects of the proposed 
merger would be adverse. 
Although there is no existing 
competition between the banks, Wachovia is a potential 
competitor in that North Carolina law permits Statewide 
branching. 
Because of its size, Wachovia is one of the 
most likely entrants into the Laurinburg area. 

/O/C 4 k J 
6/18/68 
-3-
(2) The merger would continue a declining trend in 
the numbers of smaller banks in North Carolina. 
Those 
viable institutions with good growth prospects represent 
potential competitors for larger banks in the same local 
market and, through de novo branching, in other local 
markets. 
Their elimination through merger with the larger 
institutions, in the context of high concentration in local 
banking markets in North Carolina, should also be viewed 
with some concern. 
The Laurinburg bank appears to be a 
viable competitor with good prospects for growth. 
(3) Only modest improvements to convenience and needs 
are likely to result from the proposed merger. 
Wachovia's 
presence in the Laurinburg market would add to convenience 
for its customers in the area, and it is possible that some 
additional services to local customers may be made available. 
However, there is already a branch of a large bank in the 
area and little advantage to the community in general can be 
expected. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division expressed the view that 
the record in this case supported the conclusion that there was no 
Meaningful competition between Wachovia and the Laurinburg bank; 
Wachovia derived a considerable volume of business from Laurinburg, 
it was of a kind for which the Laurinburg bank did not at present 
compete. 
The Division also believed it was reasonable to conclude 
that the North Carolina Banking Commission would have denied Wachovia 
Permission to establish a de novo branch in Laurinburg if an applica-
tion had been filed. 
It would not necessarily follow, however, that 
the effect of the merger on competition would not be adjudged signifi-
c a n t l y adverse within the meaning of the antitrust laws, and the Divi-
S l°n believed that there was better than an even chance that the Depart-
m e n t of Justice, if it filed suit, could prevail in an action under 
S e ction 7 of the Clayton Act. 

/ O 
6/18/68 
-4-
Further, the Legal Division doubted that there was really any-
thing under the convenience and needs or banking factors to counter-
balance the rather clear anticompetitive effect of the proposed merger. 
The memorandum also set forth reasons why the Division did not believe 
the Board should apply to the present case the rationale it had fol-
lowed in approving the 1967 application of Wachovia to acquire First 
National Bank of Morganton, Morganton, North Carolina. 
Messrs. Egertson, Shull, Shay, and Via commented on the respec-
tive staff positions, after which several members of the Board questioned 
the staff regarding the Laurinburg area banking structure, the percent-
age of State banking resources held by Wachovia, the growth rate of 
Wachovia compared with that of other large North Carolina banks, and 
the premium being paid in connection with the proposed merger. 
It was 
brought out that the Banking Markets Section did not believe it should 
b e concluded that it would be impossible for Wachovia to establish a 
d e novo branch in Laurinburg. 
The rules followed by the Commissioner 
o f Banks in granting de novo branches were only his own informal guide-
lines. 
a different incumbent in the post of Commissioner might take a 
Afferent view; and since Wachovia had applied for a national charter, 
uP°n the bank's conversion the guidelines followed by the State super-
i o r would not control. 
Governor Brimmer observed that, regardless of the indications 
t h a t the State Bank Commissioner would not approve the establishment 

S 7 
6/18/68 
-5-
by Wachovia of a de novo branch in Laurinburg, the fact was that no 
such application had been placed before him. 
He then inquired where 
benefit to the convenience and needs of the community was to be found, 
since the community already had banking alternatives. 
The examinations staff indicated that this judgment was based 
uPon the wider services and larger credit limit available from a large 
bank; also, Wachovia already had a number of accounts from the area, 
which the merger would enable it to serve on the spot instead of from 
a distance. 
The members of the Board then expressed their views, beginning 
with Governor Mitchell, who said that he agreed with the reasoning of 
the Division of Examinations. 
While he found himself in agreement with 
the Banking Markets Section in terms of market analysis, he came to a 
different judgment. 
He thought Wachovia was a strong competitor, and 
^id not object to seeing it in the Laurinburg area; its size should 
of assistance to that relatively small community. 
A county with a 
P°Pulation of only about 25,000 could not generate the banking resources 
necessary to its own needs; nor did a de novo branch seem to offer the 
^ e s t solution. 
Therefore, he attached more importance to the conve-
nience and needs factor, which to him meant the need for more banking 
resources. 
Moreover, he did not believe Wachovia had been predatory 
itl seeking mergers. 
In the light of those considerations, he would 
aPprove. 

2278 
6/18/68 
-6-
Governor Daane stated that he would approve for the reasons 
advanced by the Division of Examinations and that he shared most of 
Governor Mitchell's thinking. 
He was fairly certain that there was no 
hope that the State Commissioner would allow Wachovia to establish a 
de novo branch in Laurinburg, and he did not think the Board should be 
in the position of verifying the impression that under the Comptroller's 
jurisdiction entry into that community could be more readily accomplished. 
Governor Maisel spoke for disapproval. 
It seemed to him that 
institutions about the size of the Laurinburg bank should be kept alive 
in the banking system. 
This was a bank that could compete well locally, 
either with Wachovia or with banks of its own type. 
Since Wachovia was 
Presently competing for large deposits in Laurinburg, there were now 
more alternatives there than there would be if the merger were allowed, 
and therefore he could not find advantages under the convenience and 
needs factor. 
Governor Brimmer said he also would vote to disapprove. 
The 
L egal Division's comments had been helpful, and the analyses of both 
t h e Banking Markets Section and the Division of Examinations were 
excellent, but he felt the conclusion of the latter was wrong. 
He 
attached importance to the need to avoid concluding what the Commis-
sioner of Banks would do with respect to a de novo branch application 
1nasmuch as no application had been presented to him. 
In any event he 
a§reed with the view of the Banking Markets Section that the competi-
t i v e effect of the proposed merger would be adverse, and he saw no 

ZZ79 
6/18/68 
-7-
offset in other factors. 
He believed the record showed that Wachovia 
had a substantial amount of deposits and business in Laurinburg. 
In 
addition, it seemed to him that the premium being offered was substan-
tial no matter how it was measured. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he would approve. 
He believed 
that the entry of Wachovia into a community of this type that was grow-
ing and changing in economic character would be beneficial. 
Governor Robertson said he would disapprove. 
He thought both 
the purpose and spirit of the Bank Merger Act and the antitrust laws 
were designed to cover just such situations as this. 
He agreed with 
Governors Maisel and Brimmer with respect to competition; there was 
more competition in Laurinburg now than there would be after this 
merger. 
Chairman Martin expressed himself in favor of the application. 
Tlle area was one he knew well, and he thought disapproval would set it 
hack for quite a period of time. 
He did not believe Wachovia was 
Predatory, nor did he think the Board could dictate the banking struc-
t u r e - 
Although theoretically a de novo branch might be the most desir-
al)le f r o m t h e competitive standpoint, that was a matter of judgment. 
H e agreed with Governor Mitchell that although the Banking Markets 
S e ction had made a good analysis, a different conclusion seemed called 
for. 
> v» 
The application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company to merge 
The state Bank, Laurinburg, North Carolina, was thereupon approved, 

6/18/68 
- 8 -
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was under-
stood that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
drafted for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting statement 
also would be prepared. 
Staff members who had attended for the presentation of the 
foregoing application then withdrew from the meeting and Messrs. 
Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative Services, and Kakalec, 
Controller, entered the room. 
Annex building (Items 1 and 2). At its meeting on May 27, 
1968, the Board considered various matters presented by Mr. Shepardson 
a memorandum dated May 24 relating to the proposed annex building. 
Action was deferred on most of the items in order that the full Board 
m ight participate in the decisions. 
At today's meeting Mr. Shepardson commented on the principal 
question that had been deferred, namely, the schedule for inviting 
bids and letting contracts for marble, excavation, and general con-
struction. 
In his memorandum he had concurred with the architects' 
proposal that the marble contract be submitted for bids about June 1, 
1968, and the contract let about July 1, the excavation contract be 
Submitted for bids about August 1 and the contract let and excavation 
started about September 1, and the general contract submitted for bids 
about January 1, 1969, with the expectation that a contract would be let 
by March 1. However, in light of the program calling for cutbacks in 

6/18/68 
-9-
the expenditures of Federal agencies, the Board might consider it 
appropriate that the letting of any contracts be postponed until after 
the first of the year. 
If the schedule he had outlined were followed, 
additional 1968 expenditures over the building budget would amount to 
about $650,000, whereas if the letting of contracts was deferred until 
after January 1, expenditures in 1968 would fall somewhat short of the 
amount budgeted. 
Deferral of the contracts would correspondingly post-
Pone completion of the annex building from the spring of 1971 to the 
fall of that year. 
He recognized there was a policy issue involved 
that the Board would want to consider. 
Governor Daane said he felt quite strongly that because of 
rising costs the Board would save money in the long run if it went 
ahead with the contracts promptly. 
The only justification for deferral 
W a s the matter of appearances. 
Governor Maisel agreed that early placement of the contracts 
Would save money. 
However, the economic situation was still critical, 
and until it became evident that inflationary pressures had diminished 
he did not think the Board should go forward with a major construction 
Project. 
Governor Brimmer said he thought'the Board should move forward. 
He would like to avoid having the arrangements that had already been 
P ut together fall apart. 
By next January there might be new management 
the Department of the Interior, and the arrangements for the north 

6/18/68 
-10-
garage might again be in question. 
He did not know whether there was 
a time limit on the authorization granted by the National Capital 
Planning Commission, but he did not like to run the risk of having to 
renegotiate for approval. 
The question was not one of giving up the 
project but one of priorities, and in that context it seemed to him 
that the expense of paying rent for the Watergate space and the risk 
of having to renegotiate present arrangements provided justification 
for going ahead with the project. 
Governor Maisel commented that his understanding was that all 
new Federal construction had been deferred by the Administration, and 
Governor Robertson said that was his impression also. 
If the Board 
should proceed with its contracts, it would be out of step with that 
effort. 
Governor Mitchell observed that there was also the question of 
consistency with the terms of whatever request might be made to the 
Reserve Banks to curtail their expenses. 
However, he did not think he 
Would be averse to letting the marble contract. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he would like very much to go 
ahead with the contracts, principally for the reasons Governor Brimmer 
had mentioned. 
The present package of arrangements had been difficult 
t o put together, and it was problematical whether it would stay to-
gether for any extended time. 
There soon would be changes in the make-
U P of the Planning Commission, and the Commission had a reputation for 

6/18/68 
-11-
changing its mind. 
Another consideration was the cost of conducting 
the Board's operations in separated locations. 
He recognized that 
going ahead with the contracts could subject the Board to some criti-
cism. 
However, he would not be in favor of a postponement beyond the 
first of the year, and he suggested that the Board proceed with all 
steps that could be undertaken without substantial expenditures. 
Governor Brimmer inquired what moves could be made to show 
that the project was active, short of excavation, in order to hold 
°nto the results of negotiations. 
Mr. Kelleher observed that one such item would be to proceed 
with the necessary relocation of gas and water lines. 
The Board had 
already approved the removal of certain telephone ducts. 
Governor Daane inquired further about the firmness of the 
arrangements so far negotiated, and Mr. Shepardson said he felt the 
same concern on that point that Governors Brimmer and Sherrill had 
expressed. 
It was not unusual for the Planning Commission to reverse 
its elf, even on projects that were relatively fully developed. 
More-
over, on the question of plans for the park over the north garage, the 
Commission's vote had been split, and the recommendation of the Com-
mission's staff had been adverse. 
If the Board had something going in 
the way of a contract, there was more reason to feel that the Commis-
sion's approval would stand. 
Governor Robertson asked if it would be feasible to enter into 
a contract without having the quarrying of marble start until after 

O r 
6/18/68 
-12-
the first of the year, so that there would be no expenditure in 1968. 
Mr. Shepardson expressed the view that a contractor would probably be 
reluctant to bid against a situation six months in advance. 
His bid 
had to be calculated against the current situation, and he already ran 
the risk of changes in conditions during the term of the contract. 
Governor Brimmer observed that almost a month had already gone 
by 
since Mr. Shepardson recommended the contract schedule, which meant 
that even if the Board approved going ahead, the time necessary to set 
things in motion would somewhat close the interval before the first of 
the year. 
Mr. Shepardson commented that it might be possible to postpone 
the letting of contracts for a month or two rather than until the first 
°f the year. 
If excavation was to begin, however, it should not be 
Postponed until the onset of severe weather. 
If that contract were 
Put out for bids the first of October or November, for example, and 
awarded a month later, a certain length of time would be necessary to 
§ e t the work under way and there probably would not be any payments 
d u e on it this year. 
Governor Sherrill agreed that if the Board desired, something 
m*ght be worked out that would let preliminary steps be undertaken 
without the necessity of making any substantial expenditures this year. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that the sooner the work 
0 uld be gotten under way the better it would be for the Board's self-
ttterest. However, the problem of the Board's public posture was a 

2285 
6/18/68 
-13-
real one. 
Especially, it would be undesirable for the Federal Reserve 
Banks to see the Board in a public posture contrary to the policy of 
the time. 
He suggested that Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson 
develop recommendations for a program in which positive steps would be 
undertaken but major payments would not become due this year. 
There was general agreement with that suggestion. 
Mr. Shepardson then referred to the need to relocate certain 
utility lines, which Mr. Kelleher had mentioned earlier. 
The District 
Government had estimated that moving two water lines would cost $32,000 
It appeared tentatively that moving the gas line in question would 
cost about $10,000. 
The Board unanimously approved proceeding with the relocation 
°f the utility lines. 
A copy of a letter subsequently sent to the 
director of Sanitary Engineering of the District Government pursuant 
t o this action is attached as Item No. 1. 
Mr. Shepardson then referred to the recommendation in his 
H a y 24 memorandum that a construction supervisor be employed to act as 
Board liaison with the contractor and the architects. 
He suggested 
that the position carry the title "Project Representative." 
Specifi-
C a l l y > he recommended that the Board approve the appointment of Donald 
Anderson (whose qualifications had been set forth in the memorandum) 
a t an annual salary of $19,000, effective as soon as he could report 
£ 
r duty, and that he be employed on a proportionate per diem basis 

6/18/68 
-14-
for such time as he could give in the interim, with the understanding 
that he would be transferred to a position as Assistant Director in the 
Division of Administrative Services upon completion of the new build-
ing if mutually agreeable to both parties at that time. 
Mr. Anderson 
was in the contracting business, and since he would need some time to 
fulfill his present commitments he probably could not make himself 
available full-time before about the first of August or September. 
The Board unanimously approved the employment of Mr. Anderson 
a s P roject Representative on the terms stated in Mr. Shepardson's rec-
ommendation. 
A copy of the letter sent to Mr. Anderson pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Mr. Shepardson then mentioned that another recommendation in 
hi-s memorandum had been that the Board authorize the inclusion in the 
architects' contract of a provision that they would specify the interior 
£ 
Urnishings for the annex building. 
The architects maintained an 
interior decorating department. 
After comments on the work of that 
d e 
Partment, Mr. Shepardson expressed the view that the architects' 
services with respect to interior furnishings would be as satisfactory 
a s 
e services of any other interior decorating consultant. 
Discussion of this point indicated divergent views among the 
mhers of the Board, and there was agreement that before a decision 
reached Governor Sherrill would explore other sources of interior 
decorating services. 

9 9 cr"? 
6/18/68 
-15-
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this point. 
Staff reorganization (Item No. 3). 
Governor Robertson brought 
up for consideration the proposed staff reorganization as set forth in 
his memorandum of June 5, 1968, (copy attached as Item No. 3), and dis-
cussed preliminarily at the Board meeting of that date. 
In summarizing 
the proposal, he pointed out that both the Truth in Lending Task Force 
and the Securities Credit Regulation Unit would be incorporated into 
the Division of Examinations, with the latter being retitled the Divi-
sion of Examination and Regulation. 
Each of the new regulatory units 
he felt should be headed by a staff member of official rank, and he 
proposed naming Tynan Smith as Assistant Director in charge of the 
Truth in Lending function and Janet Hart as Assistant Director in 
charge of the Securities Credit Regulation function. 
He suggested that 
these changes be made effective July 1 or at such later date as was 
Necessary to receive the assent of all officials being transferred or 
Promoted and permit orderly notification of the field force and other 
s taff members most directly affected, with the salaries of Mr. Smith 
and Miss Hart to be fixed at the same time as the salary adjustments 
f°r other Board officers. 1 / 
Governor Robertson also recommended that the function of 
examination of the Federal Reserve Banks (including the supervision 
o f Reserve Bank Auditing Departments) be transferred from the Division 
o f Examinations to the Division of Bank Operations, with the latter 
1 / Ar 
~~ 
L a later meeting in executive session the salary of Miss Hart as 
Assistant Director was fixed by the Board at the annual rate of 
? 2 1,500 effective July 14, 1968. 

«n.r> 
6/18/68 
-16-
Division being renamed the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 
It was intended that Charles C. Walcutt be transferred from the Divi-
sion of Examinations to the Division of Bank Operations, to continue 
as As sistant Director in charge of the field examination staff. 
Governor Robertson advised the Board that Mr. Solomon, Director 
°f the Division of Examinations, was not in favor of this proposal, 
believing that the transfer of the field force would reduce the status 
°f the Division of Examinations and would give rise to possible con-
flicts of interest in the proposed Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations between the objectives of Reserve Bank efficiency and Reserve 
Bank security. 
Governor Robertson stated that any member of the Board 
should feel free to discuss these matters with Mr. Solomon before final 
B°ard action was taken. 
On the other hand, Governor Robertson indi-
cated that he had reviewed this proposal with Mr. Larkin of Haskins & 
Q -| , 
ts, the accounting firm which had completed five years of surveys 
the operations of the field examination force, and with President 
Soanlon of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, the Reserve Bank chief 
executive with the longest experience in the examination field. 
Both 
these men, he indicated, were in agreement with the proposed change. 
In the ensuing discussion, it was agreed that it would be pref-
rabl e for Mr. Walcutt, as Assistant Director in charge of the field 
forcp 
to report directly to the Director rather than through the 
: • i 
Ass 
°ciate Director as shown in the June 5 memorandum. 
Governor Mitchell 

6/18/68 
-17-
emphasized the requirements for flexibility and balanced judgment in 
the administration of securities credit regulation. 
After further discussion, the Board voted to approve the pro-
Posed reorganization, with the suggested modification. 
' yt t f-
The meeting then adjourned. 
U't • 
Secretary's Notes: 
A letter was sent 
today to First National City Bank, New 
York, New York, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish 
an additional branch in Argentina, to 
be located in Buenos Aires. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the 
Divisions of Personnel Administration 
and Administrative Services dated June 17, 
1968, Governor Sherrill today approved on 
behalf of the Board the establishment of 
nine additional positions under the Youth 
Opportunity Program, thereby bringing the 
total number of such positions to 19, and 
authorized the resulting overexpenditure 
of approximately $7,000 in the 1968 budget 
of the Division of Administrative Services. 
On June 18, 1968, actions were taken on behalf 
of the Board under delegated authority as indi-
cated by the following items, copies of which 
are attached under the respective numbers indi-
cated : 
B 
£^g-General Counsel of the Board 
Item No 
Letter f- n 
Cor 
Counsel for Financial General 
4 
mitt° r a t i° n' W a s h i n § t o n , D. C., trans-
l n g a prior tax certification. 
.Bythq a 
- — A c t i n g Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letters h 
, 
aPpro • 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
5-6 
a s agVj"n8 t h e reappointment of Marshall W. Snow 
Alfr
 
l s t a n t examiner and the appointment of 
assist 
V a z q u e z and Bruce G. Wins low as 
n t examiners. 

2230 
6/18/68 
-18-
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
7 
approving the appointment of Gary Oren Harper 
as assistant examiner. 
... -J .. •. 
Letter to Irving Trust Company, New York, New 
8 
York, approving the establishment of a limited 
Purpose branch at 71 Broadway. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
9 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
Within which to establish a branch at 2200-
2202 Market Street. 
v r. 
li 
f; 
' ' 
!, ' ' V -.V 
: '. 
\ 5 > 
A- v / K ^ : ^ * 
v 
' . IVi 
Secretary 

2291 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
I t e m N o . l 
OF the 
6/18/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P • N D E N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 25, 1968 
Director of Sanitary Engineering, 
District Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20004 
Attention Mr. J. C. Robertson, 
Associate Director. 
Dear Sir: 
This is in reply to Mr. Robertson's letter of June 12, 
1968, to Mr. Kelleher regarding the relocation and abandonment 
°f certain water mains and sewers in connection with the Board's 
construction project at 21st and C Streets, N. W. 
The Board understands your estimate of the total cost 
°f the relocations described in the letter and in accordance with 
the Architects' Excavation Plan No. 805-E 1 dated June 4, 1968, 
to be $32,000. 
The Board hopes to begin construction on this project 
no later than January 1, 1969, and it hereby authorizes you to 
Proceed with the relocations of facilities described in your 
letter as expeditiously as possible, with the understanding that 
the cost of the relocations will be billed to and paid by the 
°ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
Your attention is called to the fact that it is also 
necessary to move a gas main from the closed section of 20th Street 
and possibly a power line along Virginia Avenue from closed 20th 
treet to the intersection of Virginia Avenue and "C" Street, 
his matter has been called to the attention of the two utility 
Companies concerned, and it is hoped that these three relocations 
n this area can be coordinated since the space available for re-
l a t i o n along Virginia Avenue and "C" Street is limited. 
of GOk 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N I 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 25, 1968 
20781 
Mr. Donald E. Anderson, 
Anderson Electric Company, 
5728 Tuxedo Road, 
Tuxedo, Maryland. 
''^ •SM.'.c v . 
Dear Mr. Anderson: 
I am pleased to inform you that the Board has authorized 
your employment as Project Representative for the Board's new 
building project at a salary of $19,000 per year, effective on 
the date you are prepared to start work. 
It is understood that 
you will need some time to close out your present activities, 
aild it is expected that this beginning date would be at your 
earliest convenience but in no event later than September 1, 1968. 
is hoped that you may be available for consultation from time 
0 time in the interim, in which case you would be reimbursed on 
Pro rata basis for the time actually spent on the job either 
e r e o r in consultation with the Board's Architect. 
-'in.: 
A 
k- 
1 1 1 6 d u t i e s o f t h i s position will be as outlined in the 
rchitect's memorandum of May 7, 1968, which you have reviewed. 
M.v*' -
a 
It is the Board's further intention that, if mutually 
^greeable at the time of completion of this project, you will 
t 
transferred to an official position in the Division of Adminis-
rative Services with the duties of building superintendent of 
Board's two buildings. 
Very truly yours, 
• j I, 
S ' 
A 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 3 
6/18/68 
^moraridum: 
June 5, 1968 
Members of the Board 
Subject: Plan_for Reorgani-
zation of Certain Divisions 
From: Governor Robertson 
of the Board's Staff 
New supervisory responsibilities of the Board as a 
reSult of recent legislation and an increased awareness by 
the Board of its supervisory responsibilities for Federal 
Reserve Banks would seem to indicate the desirability of a 
^organization of the Board's Divisions of Examinations and, 
Bank Operations. The following is a suggested approach to 
Such a reorganization. 
Division of Examinations 
The areas of responsibility of the Division of Ex-
aminations have been broadened over the years to include 
^notions other than bank examinations, such as the super-
vision of bank holding companies (Reg. Y) and bank securi-
and accounting (Reg. F). At the moment there are two 
^assigned or Ad Hoc units that would seem to fall within 
he area of general responsibility of this division. One 
® the Securities Credit Regulation Unit (Regs. G, T, U). 
e other is the Task Force on Truth in Lending. While 
, n of these activities affect economic units other than 
^anks, they also affect bank activities and it would seem 
^sirable and logical to place all such functions in one 
V i s i o n . 
t 
With this thought in mind, it would seem appropriate 
change the name of this division to Division of Examina-
° n and Regulation, and to assign the new units mentioned 
ove to this division. In view of the specialized nature 
lat^ e S e functions, including their necessitous public re-
he H°nS a sP e c ts, it would seem appropriate to have each 
r e
 
e d by someone of official rank, namely an Assistant Di-
tiot0r> 
3 s 
i s Presently the case with the other major func-
n s °f the division. 

2 2 9 4 
Memorandum to 
Members of the Board: 
- 2 -
Division of Bank Operations 
The primary functions of this division are to im-
plement the Board's responsibility for the supervision 
of Federal Reserve Bank operations and Treasury-Federal 
Reserve currency and coin operations0 It would seem ap-
propriate to transfer from the Division of Examinations 
to the Division of Bank Operations the function of ex-
amination of Federal Reserve Banks, including the super-
vision of the Auditing Departments of those banks0 
This 
would tend to unify Board supervision of Federal Reserve 
Banks and strengthen the Division of Bank Operations in 
the process. 
There is little if any connection between the ex-
amination of Federal Reserve Banks and that of commercial 
banks. The nature of the two examinations is quite dif-
ferent, the examining staffs including supervisory staffs 
are entirely separate, and it is rare that personnel, par-
ticularly at the upper grades, are ever shifted from one 
Unit to the other because of the difference in approach 
and hence in training for the two types of examinations. 
On the other hand, the examination and operational super-
vision of Federal Reserve Banks should be closely related 
integratedo 
With this thought in mind, it is suggested that the 
Federal Reserve Bank Examination Unit be transferred from 
Division of Examinations to the Division of Bank Op-
Grations, and the name of the latter be changed to "Division 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations11. 
In considering these proposals, I have worked closely 
^ t h Governor Sherrj.ll and Governor Shepardson, and we have 
c°nsuited Mr. Eugene Larkin of Raskins and Sells, the firm 
^hich has completed five years of surveys of the operations 
our field force, and one Federal Reserve Bank President 
° S G experience equips him better than most to formulate 
a n opinion in this area. 

223 
Memorandum to 
Members of the Board: 
- 3 -
If the recommendations are accepted, I further recoin-
^end that Mr. Tynan Smith be made Assistant Director (for 
cne Truth in Lending Unit) 
and Miss Janet Hart be made As-
distant Director (for the Securities Credit Unit) of the 
^vision of Examination and Regulation. 
I suggest that the effective date of this transfer 
h
g July 1,1968, that the salaries of Mr. Smith and Miss 
art be fixed in the light of salary decisions for the offi-
Ial staff to be made by the Board some time prior thereto, 
such salaries to begin on the first day of the pay period 
0°Homing July 1. Prior to the effective date, transfer of 
lotions and budgetary provisions would be carried out by 
th^ d^v:i-sions involved in collaboration with the Office of 
e Controller and the Division of Personnel Administration. 

1 
2 2 9 6 
Division of Examination and Supervision 
_ _ _ _ _ ( 
^sst. """to" Dir. 
Director 
Deputy Director 
Examination Reports 
Problem Banks 
Fiduciary Matters 
Examining Personnel 
Bank Examiners School 
^ i n g 
L 
Vl-ties 
Foreign Banking 
Activities 
i n -
securities Credit 
Regulation 
Mergers, Branches, 
Membership 
ZL 
Mem.Bk.Securities, 
Acctg.Principles 
Truth in Lending 
Regulation 
Recording and 
Stenographic 
Section 
> 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Director 
Associate Director 
T" 
Currency & Coin, 
Other Treasury Relations 
Field Examiners 
Staff 

m 
O 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
6/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1968, 
Martin Whitfield & Thaler, 
l 70l Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 
20006 
17: 
z u 
Re 
Financial General Corporation 
Prior Tax Certification. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letters of December 31, 1967, and of 
March 12, May 17, and June 3, 1968, transmitting, respectively, an 
application for a prior certification by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to section 1101(c)(2)(C) of the 
internal Revenue Code of 1954, as amended by Public Law 90-225, 
amendment No. 1 to said application, details of debt assumption 
arrangements, and amendment No. 2 to the aforesaid application. 
Enclosed is a duplicate original of the prior certification 
issued by the Board today, acting by its General Counsel pursuant to 
elegated authority. 
The certification is based upon information 
urnished by you and by Financial General Corporation and upon our 
understanding of the facts. 
There is also enclosed a copy of the Board's letter trans-
i t i n g the original of such prior certification to the Internal 
A v e n u e Service. 
Your attention is directed to section 1101(e) of the Code, 
relating to the need for "final" certification by the Board. 
In 
order to perfect the tax benefit conferred by section 1101(c), 
rnancial General should apply to the Board for such final certifica-
° n at an appropriate time after the corporation has disposed of all 
e Property the disposition of which is necessary to effectuate 
S e c t i ° n 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended. 
Ericlosur 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
es 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
CERTIFICATION 
B 
1* 
T h e Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System ("the 
I7ni 
h a S b e e n i n f o r m e d b y Financial General Corporation, located at 
01 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C., (hereinafter some-
lines referred to as "the bank holding company" or "FG") that it proposes 
effect the following transactions: 
(a) FG will transfer to a new corporation called 
financial Security Corporation ("FSC"), organized solely for the 
Purpose of receiving such transfer of property, $50,000 in cash 
and the following voting shares of stock: 
Shares 
Shares to be 
Name of Company 
Outstanding 
Transferred 
National Insurors & Credit 
Corporation ("NICC") 
15,578 
14,800 * 
Associated Life Companies, 
Inc. ("ALC") 
1,000 
950 
Intermediate Credit 
Corporation ("ICC") 
10,000 
9,500 
/ v 
(b) 
in exchange for the cash and shares mentioned in 
above, FG will receive all of the stock of FSC, other than 
authorized but unissued stock; 
v 
(c) immediately after the exchange described in (a) and 
above, and in accordance with section 1101(a)(2)(A)(i) of the 
nternal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended ("the Code"), FG will dis-
ribute all of the FSC stock received by FG to FG stockholders on a 
rata basi 
s, without the surrender by such stockholders of any 
°ck of the bank holding company; each FG stockholder will receive 
share of FSC stock for each share of FG common stock owned on 
ne record date for the distribution; 
p„ 
(d) at the time of said exchange and distribution, 
c will deliver to FG, to match each warrant for 1.2 shares of FG 
0 c k then outstanding, one warrant for the purchase of 1.2 shares 

-2-
Of FSC stock, the price to be adjusted on the basis of the fair 
market value of the common stock of the two companies on the 
date of exchange and distribution; FG will immediately deliver 
all said FSC warrants to the Chase Manhattan Bank (N.A.) to be 
held as Warrant Agent for the benefit of warrant owners; 
(e) FSC will assume $5,040,000 of the $12,600,000 
°f 6 per cent Collateral Trust Bonds of FG and will be con-
tingently liable for the remaining $7,560,000 of such bonds. 
FSC will assume the principal and servicing costs of $2,850,000 
of the $7,125,000 outstanding 5 1/4 per cent Subordinated Sinking 
Fund Debentures of FG and will be jointly and severally liable 
with FG for the full $7,125,000 of such debentures; 
(f) 
as a result of the aforestated exchange and 
istribution, FSC will also acquire indirect control of additional 
shares of stock (through subsidiaries of NICC, ALC, and ICC). 
fu 
• 
T h e b a n k h o l c l i n § company has also informed the Board and 
rnished evidence to the effect that: 
(1) 
neither the property to be exchanged for the 
S h ° C k 
F S C n ° r t h e s h a r e s o f stock referred to in paragraph (f) 
above will include any property described in section 
U O l ( b ) (l)(B)(i) of the Code; 
(2) FG is a Virginia corporation; 
H 
, 
(3) FG is a bank holding company under the Bank 
folding Company Act of 1956 as amended,12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq. 
the Act"), on the basis of ownership or control, direct or in-
l r e c t > of 25 per cent or more of the stock of each of two or 
more banks; FG does not fall within any exemption in section 2(a) 
o t the Act; 
. , 
(4) FG owns property that is "prohibited" within the 
efinition in section 1103(b) of the Code and that is not exempt 
e r the provisions of section 4 of the Act; 
(5) FG became a bank holding company by virtue of the 
amendments to the Act and would have been a bank holding 
c°mpany on April 12, 1965 if the Act as amended had been in effect 
that date; 
^ 
(6) FSC and FG will not have one or more officers, 
rectors, trustees, or beneficiaries in common with or subject 
° the control of FG; and FSC is not indebted to FG. 
It is noted 
at Mr. Norman B. Frost and Mr. Philip A. MacSween are among the 
Persons named as officers or directors of FSC (affidavit of 

y* i * * 
Wn. L. Cobb, President of FG, dated March 11, 1968). 
Evidence 
before the Board indicates that Mr. Frost is a director of FG 
and Mr. MacSween is a vice president of FG. 
In the light of 
these facts, and the terms of section 2(g)(3) of the Act pro-
viding (in pertinent part) that shares transferred to a transferee 
that has an officer or director in common with or subject to 
control by the transferor shall be deemed to be indirectly 
controlled by the transferor, the proposed transfer would cause 
FG to be deemed to control the transferred shares; and the pro-
posed exchange and distribution would not be considered appropriate 
to effectuate section 4 of the Act. 
However, FG fs attorneys, 
by telephone, have advised the Board that Mr. Frost is no longer 
a director of FG and that Mr. MacSween will terminate his dual 
affil iation prior to the proposed exchange and distribution. 
This certification is premised on said assurance by FG's counsel 
and is conditioned on effectuation of such disaffiliation before 
any transfer by FG of the shares designated herein. 
2. Pursuant to the provisions of section 1101(c)(2) and 
S ection 1103(b) of the Code as amended by Public Law 90-225, the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System, acting by its General Counsel 
under delegated authority 02 CFR 265.2(b)(3)), hereby certifies that: -
(a) Financial General Corporation satisfies the 
requirements of subsection (b) of section 1103 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1954 as amended and therefore is a qualified 
bank holding corporation as defined in that subsection; 
(b) 
the shares of stock enumerated in 1(a) above 
include property which, under section 1101(a)(1) of the Code, 
the bank holding company could distribute directly to its 
shareholders without the recognition of gain to such share-
holders; and 
(c) 
the proposed exchange and distribution 
(referred to in paragraph 1 above) are appropriate to effectuate 
section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 as amended. 
Executed in Washington, D. C. on June 19, 1968. 
Robert C. Holland, Secretary, 
Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System 

. 2301 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No- 5 
• P 
T H E 
6 / 1 8 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in Mr. Quackenbush's letter of June 12, 1968, the 
Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the reappointment of Marshall W. 
Snow as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, effective June 20, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
.. Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

W 
'-SX' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
6/18/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 19, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 14, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointments of Alfredo N. Vazquez and Bruce G. 
Winslow as assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. 
Please advise the effective dates 
of the appointments. 
V 
s 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
" Assistant Secretary. 

2303 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 7 
•F THE 
6/18/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. . . 
. 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 19, 1968 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 13, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Gary Oren Harper as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland.' 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

O, < . 
.•isssafc. 
2304 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 8 
6/18/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 26, 1968. 
•tew 
Board of Directors, 
Irving Trust Company, 
N e w York, New York. 
Gentl emen: 
to 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
° n behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
pproves the establishment of a branch by Irving Trust Company, 
ew York, New York, at 71 Broadway, New York, New York, provided 
^ne branch is established within six months from the date of this 
t er. 
it is understood that this branch is to be used for the 
a r u J
l t e d purpose of housing your bank's Auditing, Central Loans 
Insurance Departments and the General Services Group and Trip 
^ 
of National Division until such time as space becomes available 
your bank's main office for these operations. 
A 
Xh 
-if* 
\ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

onnr-
/O* 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
P E N N S Y L V A N I A 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 9 
6/18/68 
June 18, 1968 
Wr. George H. Brown, Jr., Chairman 
Girard Trust Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear Mr. Brown: 
C 
On July 1 9 , 
1 9 6 7 , 
the Federal Reserve Syste 
^ e Federal Reserve Bank of 
went by your bank of a branch 
folphia, 
Pennsylvania—orovided" 
one year of the af 
" l-UuLl'l 
Undi 
Allen of your 
not be coraplet 
•tablishment of t! 
date. 
le Board of G d ^ e m o r s 
ey delegated authority, 
roved the establish-
Market Street, Phila-
£ich was established within 
President Robert C. 
e branch quarters will 
originally specified for es-
has asked for an extension. 
lis is tdvadtefce y b i that, on behalf of the Board of 
lorsMif the F e d e W . Rp^erve System, acting under delegated 
>rity, thp^Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia extends for 
>nths f^om July 19, 1 9 6 8 the time within which your bank 
eX$ablish\ bfanch at the subject location. 
Yours sincerely, 
J. R. 
j 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
