<93 
PR 609 
( R ev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 16, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

177 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Friday, July 16,1971. 
The 
meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1._/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mrs. Koester, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files along with copies of the individual briefing 
The Board members were then briefed on pertinent legislative 
matters presently being considered by the Congress. 
Subject to ratification of the action at the next meeting of the 
Board at which a quorum was present, the Deputy Secretary was authorized 
to advise any Federal Reserve Bank whose directors established rates on 
discounts and advances at the same level as approved by the Board 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also attended. 

»fH3 
« J 
1 7 7 4 
7/16/71 
-2-
yesterday for four Reserve Banks of the approval of such rates. 
(Note: During the day the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, 
Atlanta, and Minneapolis advised that their directors had established 
rates of 5 per cent on discounts for and advances to member banks under 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, 5-1/2 per cent on advances 
to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act, and 7 per cent on advances 
to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. The Banks were advised 
of approval of such rates, effective July 19, 1971, and an appropriate 
press release was issued.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
