Minutes for 
October 9, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

«"» ' » 
ft 
f~* 
k j c , - Li> 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 9, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
' i • -U ' 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon and Miss Hart, 
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Ormsby and Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Heyde of the Legal Division 

O O ' i / 
10/9/68 
-2-
Messrs. Cleaver, Lawrence, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Achor, Donovan, Harris, 
Karsten, Maguire, Sanford, and Shuter of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Buckley of the Division of Data Processing 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of Morgan Guaranty Safe Deposit Company, New York, 
New York, into Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, also of New 
York City, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. 
The conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
Unanimous approval was given to a report, for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of 
liabilities of the Newport News Branch of The Bank of Virginia, Rich-
mond, Virginia, by Bank of Warwick, Newport News, Virginia. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
The acquisition of assets and assumption of liabil-
ities of the Newport News Branch of The Bank of Virginia, 
Richmond, by Bank of Warwick, Newport News, would have no 
adverse competitive effects. The Bank of Virginia and 
Bank of Warwick are both subsidiaries of Virginia Common-
wealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, a registered 
bank holding company. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
fac tors involved in the proposed consolidation of First National Bank 
and Trust Company of Millersburg, Millersburg, Pennsylvania, and The 

o u ' i b 
10/9/68 
-3-
Fi rst National Bank of Elizabethville, Elizabethville, Pennsylvania, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
While some competition exists between First National 
Bank and Trust Company of Millersburg and The First National 
Bank of Elizabethville, such competition is not viewed as 
significant and potential for increased competition is 
limited. The overall competitive effects of the proposed 
transaction would be slightly adverse. 
Truth in lending. Governor Robertson referred to the proposed 
regulation to implement the truth in lending provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Protection Act. The Board's staff, consultants, and the Advi-
sory Committee were now in agreement upon the form of the draft regula-
tion, and it was hoped that it could be published promptly in order to 
allow as much time for comments as possible. It was contemplated that 
the final regulation would be issued by the middle of January 1969, 
thus allowing several months before its effective date (July 1, 1969) 
to carry on an educational program and enable merchants and lenders 
to gear their procedures to the new requirements. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the draft regulation could 
be furnished to the members of the Board today, with a request that 
those who would not be present this Friday submit their comments or 
suggestions on an individual basis. Then the members present on 
Friday would authorize publication of the proposed regulation for 
comment. 
In the ensuing discussion Governor Mitchell said that while 
he did not know that he would have suggestions, neither was he willing 

o o jib 
10/9/68 
-4-
to accept the draft without study if he was to assume some responsi-
bility for it. 
Mr. Hexter suggested that, since the regulation could even-
tually give rise to litigation, it might be better procedure to have 
its publication approved today, with the understanding that revisions 
might be made, rather than have it approved for publication Friday 
when a quorum would not be present.. 
Governor Mitchell questioned such a procedure, and Governor 
Maisel also expressed objection to approving publication of a document 
the Board had not seen. 
Governor Robertson then commented that the matter of the pro-
cedure to be followed could be considered further after the draft 
regulation, and a summary thereof, had been made available to all 
Board members later today. 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background material that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding relief from reporting require-
ments to be given to registrants under Regula-
tion G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchas-
ing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities, 
in certain circumstances in which the volume of 
credit extended was insignificant. 

10/9/68 
-5-
Item No. 
Letters to Chairman Fascell of the Subcommittee 
2-4 
on Legal and Monetary Affairs of the House Com-
mittee on Government Operations regarding (1) 
the coin situation, (2) Federal Reserve check 
clearance float, and (3) "window dressing" in 
bank reports. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
5 
approving revised employee salary structures 
for the head office and the Buffalo Branch. 
Investment in bank premises (Item No. 6). On October 2, 1968, 
the Board discussed the request of Security First Bank & Trust Co., 
Grand Haven, Michigan, for approval of an investment of $1,300,000 in 
bank premises. The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval, although the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had indicated 
unwillingness to make a favorable recommendation in view of the fact 
that the bank's weak capital position would be accentuated if the 
investment was made. The matter had been deferred for further consid-
eration when additional members of the Board could participate. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated October 4, 
1968, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation describing the 
effort made by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago to obtain a commit-
ment by the bank to a greater increase in capital. It appeared 
unlikely that such an agreement could be obtained at this time. How-
ever, in view of the bank's excellent asset condition, satisfactory 
management, and the proposed sale of $600,000 in capital notes, the 
Divi sion continued to feel that the application warranted approval. 

o o 
10/9/68 
-6-
Attached was a draft of letter that would call attention to the need 
for capital improvement in somewhat stronger terms than had been 
suggested earlier. 
After discussion the letter was approved, Governor Daane 
abstaining for personal reasons and Governor Robertson dissenting. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
Bank holding company applications. On the basis of staff 
material that had been distributed, including favorable recommenda-
tions by the Division of Supervision and Regulation, and following 
an oral summary by Mr. Lyon regarding each case, the following bank 
holding company applications were approved unanimously: 
Application of The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Meinhardt Bank, Burlington, 
Wisconsin. 
Application of First Virginia Bankshares Corpora-
tion, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire 51 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of The Planters Bank 
of Bridgewater, Bridgewater, Virginia. 
It was understood that orders and statements reflecting these deci-
sions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Bankers Trust Company. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated September 20, 1968, from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, with other pertinent papers, recommending 
approval of the application of Bankers Trust Company, New York, New 
York, to merge Northern Westchester National Bank, Chappaqua, New York 

10/9/68 
-7-
After comments by Mr. Egertson based upon the material that 
had been distributed, all of the members of the Board expressed them-
selves favorably on the application except Governor Robertson, who 
referred to potential competition between the participant institutions 
through entry by Bankers Trust Company on a de novo basis and expressed 
the view that this adverse competitive factor was not offset by pro-
spective benefits cited. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration and that 
a statement regarding Governor Robertson's dissent also would be 
prepared. 
Processing of applications. Governor Mitchell expressed the 
view that the documentation of merger and bank holding company cases, 
as presented to the Board, included considerable repetition. The 
analyses of such applications by the Reserve Banks had generally 
improved, and it seemed to him that it should be possible to rely on 
them to a greater extent, thus avoiding extensive duplication of the 
Reserve Banks' presentation by the Board's staff. 
After a discussion during which members of the Board commented 
on the type of presentation they would find most useful, it was under-
stood that the staff would explore possibilities for, implementing 
Governor Mitchell's suggestion. 

O O v i O 
10/9/68 
-8-
Bill to extend discount privilege (Item No. 7). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated 
October 7, 1968, regarding a request by Chairman Patman of the House 
Committee on Banking and Currency that Governor Mitchell state his 
views, and if possible those of the other members of the Board, 
regarding H.R. 19417, a bill that would amend the second paragraph 
of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act so as to extend the discount 
privilege on a regular basis to Federally-insured savings and loan 
associations, mutual savings banks, and Federal credit unions. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of reply that was 
believed to be consistent with the conclusions of the recent study 
of the discount mechanism and with previous Board statements with 
regard to legislative proposals. In essence, the reply would take 
the position that H.R. 19417 would not substantially increase the 
amount of paper eligible for discount because the requirement in the 
second paragraph of section 13 that paper discounted have a maturity 
of no more than 90 days would remain unchanged, and most home mortgage 
and consumer paper could not meet that requirement. Second, the reply 
would state that as a general principle the Board was opposed to 
extending discount window access on a regular basis to financial insti-
tutions other than those continuously subject to its rules, regulations, 
and scrutiny, including the maintenance of specified, levels of required 
reserves with the Reserve Banks. 

<•> * * : 
-
10/9/68 
-9-
Governor Mitchell observed that the Board might want to con-
sider whether the proposed reply should be signed by him or by Chairman 
Martin. 
Governor Maisel raised a question with reference to the eligi-
ble paper bill recommended by the Board for the past several years, 
stating that he had had some doubts concerning the adequacy of that 
bill. He was willing to go along with the letter now proposed, but 
hoped that the Board would examine again the question whether the 
eligible paper bill was adequate. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that if a broadening of 
the eligible paper bill was to be considered, it would be preferable 
to have the reply to Chairman Patman in the present instance trans-
mitted over the signature of an individual member of the Board. 
As the discussion continued several suggestions were made 
for revisions in the draft letter, especially with respect to the 
passage describing the obligations that should attach to use of the 
discount privilege. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the sending of a letter 
by Governor Mitchell in the form attached as Item No. 7 was approved 
unanimously. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated 
October 8, 1968, there had been distributed a draft of policy record 
entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 

10/9/68 
-10-
July 16, 1968. It was proposed to release the entry to the press on 
Monday, October 14, and the entry was now being submitted for final 
review by the Board. The draft had been approved by the Board on 
September 27, on the understanding that a passage would be added 
regarding the increase in the swap line with the Bank of France, and 
no further suggestions had been received. 
Mr. Broida referred to a statement in the entry regarding an 
increase of $650 million in the limit on forward commitments to deliver 
foreign currencies to the Stabilization Fund, this being related to 
participation in the implementation of the sterling balances credit 
arrangement. When the Board previously considered the entry it was 
believed that publication on October 14 would not pre-date disclosure 
°f the information in a British white paper. However, it now appeared 
that the British paper might not be published until October 15 or 16. 
The suggestion was made that it be ascertained through the 
New York Reserve Bank whether or not the British authorities would 
object to release of the information initially through the policy 
record entry. 
The release of the entry to the press was then approved unani-
mously, it being understood that if any significant delay seemed to be 
indicated after checking with the British, the matter would be returned 
to the Board for further consideration. 
Secretary's Note: It was subsequently 
ascertained that, contrary to earlier 
reports, Bank of England officials still 

10/9/68 
-11-
expected the white paper to be published 
on October 14 and that, even if it were 
delayed, no problems would be posed for 
the British if the policy record entry 
was released on October 14. According-
ly, the entry was released on that date. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Salary ranges for Presidents and First Vice Presidents. 
Governor Mitchell, as Chairman of the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans, referred to a draft of letter to 
the Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks that would establish revised 
salary ranges for the positions of President and First Vice President 
effective January 1, 1969. The letter would state that the Board of 
Governors was prepared to consider proposed salary adjustments effec-
tive January 1, 1969, as a result of the revised ranges. The letter 
would also specify maximum increases within these ranges for use at 
intervals of two years subsequent to January 1, 1969. 
Governor Mitchell said the Committee believed that the pro-
posed ranges were consistent with the revised officer salary structures 
that had been approved for all Federal Reserve Banks except New York, 
and with the structure the Committee would recommend for New York. On 
the New York structure, there was disagreement with the Reserve Bank 
on only one point, namely, the ceiling of the range for Senior Vice 
I 
Presidents. 
Governor Mitchell pointed out that if the proposed letter were 
sent, inquiries might be received from the Chairmen of the respective 

o o o / 
10/9/68 
-12-
Reserve Banks as to what salaries would be considered appropriate, 
effective the first of next year, under the new guidelines. At his 
request, Mr. Johnson reviewed salaries that the Committee would have 
in mind as appropriate. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether it seemed essential to 
make adjustments under the new structure effective January 1, 1969. 
On that date action would not yet have been taken on the current study 
of salaries for high-level Government executives. 
Governor Maisel noted that in any event there was to be dis-
cussion of Reserve Bank officer salary administration at the meeting 
of the Conference of Reserve Bank Chairmen in December. One of the 
questions raised at that time might be whether top Reserve Bank 
salaries should be adjusted until after a decision had been reached 
on salary levels for Federal executives. 
In the ensuing discussion Governor Daane pointed out that in 
the absence of some conversation with the Chairmen of the respective 
Reserve Banks the directors of the Banks might fix salaries for Presi-
dents and First Vice Presidents that were out of line with what the 
Board would be willing to approve, which could lead to a repetition 
of embarrassing situations that had sometimes occurred in the past. 
In light of the foregoing comments Chairman Martin suggested 
that the question of sending the proposed letter to fhe Reserve Bank 
Chairmen be deferred until after the meeting of the Chairmen's Con-
ference in December, and there was agreement with that suggestion. 

O G * 
10/9/68 
-13-
Culpeper installation. Governor Sherrill referred to earlier 
discussion of the charge that the contractor was now claiming (in 
excess of $1 million) for changes that had been requested at the Com-
munications and Records Center at Culpeper, Virginia, in order to 
accommodate a larger computer. The question was one of attacking the 
problem in such a way as to secure whatever cost reduction was possible 
and providing an appropriate record before paying the contractor more 
than the Board had originally authorized ($470,000). 
Governor Sherrill said he had talked with an attorney who was 
knowledgeable in handling such matters. The attorney had expressed 
the initial view that although the Richmond Reserve Bank apparently 
was being overcharged, it would be more difficult to correct the 
situation than to recognize it. President Heflin of the Reserve Bank 
had advised the contractor of the strong objection to the price being 
asked and of the fact that litigation might be considered. Mr. Heflin 
felt that it might now be possible to negotiate a reduction to some-
thing in the neighborhood of $900,000 or less. Governor Sherrill 
expressed the view that before such negotiations were undertaken it 
would be desirable for the Reserve Bank to consider retaining the 
services of the attorney with whom he had conferred. 
After discussion it was agreed that Governor Sherrill would 
explore the situation further and, if it then seemed, advisable, would 
v 
• . . i • • • ' 
recommend that the services of the attorney be retained by the direc-
tors of the Richmond Reserve Bank. 

10/9/68 
-14-
Director appointments. Kenneth S. Pitzer having resigned 
October 1, 1968, as a Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas, it was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the 
Reserve Bank whether Chas. F. Jones, President, Humble Oil and 
Refining Company, Houston, Texas, would accept appointment if tendered 
as a Class C director of the Bank for the unexpired portion of the 
term ending December 31, 1968, and.for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1969, with the understanding that if it was found that he 
would accept, the appointment would be made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been 
ascertained that he would accept, 
an appointment telegram was sent 
to Mr. Jones on October 22, 1968. 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco whether Franklin David Murphy, Chairman, 
Los Angeles Times-Mirror Company, Los Angeles, California, would accept 
appointment if tendered as a director of the Los Angeles Branch for 
the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 1969, to succeed 
Dr. Arthur G. Coons, who died in July 1968, with the understanding that 
if it was found that Mr. Murphy would accept, the appointment would be 
made. 
Secretary's Note: It was subsequently 
ascertained that Mr. Murphy would not 
be able to accept the appointment. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
retary 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
10/9/68 
Z-6730 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 9, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has taken action to relieve registrants under 
Regulation G, whose credits secured by registered equity securities 
are not significant in proportion to the total amount of credit 
which they have extended, of the burden of reporting credit that is 
unsecured, or secured by other than registered equity securities. 
Accordingly, it is requested that your Bank notify 
Persons registered pursuant to Regulation G, that lines A.3. and 
B«3. of Federal Reserve Form G-4 (Quarterly Report) need not be 
completed by registrants who extend total credit, directly or 
indirectly, on registered equity securities amounting to less 
than 5 per cent of such registrant's total receivables for the 
quarter covered by the report. 
A formal exemption to this effect will be incorporated 
in Form G-4 when next reviewed. 
Very truly yours, 
• > / 
! 
- . 
' 
-
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO ALL PRESIDENTS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND TO THE OFFICER IN CHARGE OF REGULATION G. 

3 6 6 1 
gOfCO*-
B O A R D O F D O V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 2 
• F T H E 
l D / Q / f i S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 11, 1968 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Legal and Monetary Affairs 
of the Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of September 9, 1968, 
regarding actions that have been taken by the Federal Reserve 
System which accord with pertinent recommendations by the 
Committee on Government Operations during the 89th Congress, as 
set forth in the Committee's two reports on the Coin Shortage 
and the one report on the Coin Situation. 
Early in 1965, a joint Treasury - Federal Reserve Ad Hoc 
Coin Committee was formed and made recommendations with regard to 
the implementation of recommendations contained in your Committee s 
two reports on the coin shortage. The proposals made in the Ad 
Hoc Coin Committee's report are reflected in the recommendations 
contained in your Committee's Report on the Coin Situation. 
As noted at page 24 of the Report on the Coin Situation, 
the Board approved the recommendations of the Ad Hoc Committee, but 
before taking action thereunder desired to receive the Treasury's 
views, comments and suggestions on the report. In January 1967, 
the Board was advised that the Ad Hoc Committee's recommendations 
had been reviewed by the Bureau of the Mint against current needs 
and that Mint representatives would work out suitable approaches 
with the Board's Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations and 
the Federal Reserve Research Advisory Committee to develop a 
reporting system which would provide coin inventory and projected 
coin needs. 
This reporting system was instituted by the Mint on a 
national basis during the latter part of 1967, and involves 
quarterly reports on the projected demand for coin by the Federal 

» > • f •• o 
O
O
u
m 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-2-
Reserve Banks based on data on coin needs that they obtain from a 
sample of commercial banks. We understand that this reporting 
system has proved useful to the Mint in scheduling coin production 
as well as in providing improved controls over coin inventories at 
the Mints and at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Federal Reserve Banks adopted a program in 1966, 
under which all Reserve Banks accept orders for coin from nonmember 
banks as well as from member banks. This action accords with 
Recommendation I in the Report on the Coin Situation. 
The situation with respect to coin inventories has in 
recent months deteriorated due to problems associated with the 
removal of silver coin from circulation and the restoration of 
mint marks on the 1968 coins. 
In 1967 the Federal Reserve Banks were requested to store 
all dimes and quarters received from circulation to the extent of 
available vault space and pay out only clad coin received from the 
Mint, with the understanding that equipment to separate silver 
coin in the mixed deposits would be available at the Mints. The 
installation of the separating equipment was delayed and as a 
consequence inventories of mixed coin at the Reserve Banks 
accumulated to the point where space was not available for 
adequate supplies of clad coin and cents. 
The demand for cents was heightened as a result of renewed 
interest on the part of the public due to the reintroduction of mint 
marks pursuant to Public Law 90-29, enacted June 24, 1967. Invento-
ries at the Reserve Banks were not adequate to meet the demand and 
some Reserve Banks had to ration cents temporarily. 
Subsequently, the Treasury requested the assistance of 
the Federal Reserve Banks in the actual coin separating program. 
Accordingly, with the release of some of the Mint's coin separating 
equipment to the Reserve Banks and the acquisition of additional 
equipment, the Reserve Banks began, just prior to mid-1968, to 
participate actively in the silver separation program. However, 
with the equipment presently available, dimes cannot be culled out 
of the backlog of mixed silver and clad at a sufficient pace to 
meet the current demand. It is understood that the production of 
dimes is being increased in an attempt to fill this job. 

3863 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-3-
The Federal Reserve System is now spending substantial 
amounts in the coin separating program, including the purchase of 
certain of the equipment, in an attempt to avoid another coin 
shortage and to assist the Mint in meeting its silver requirement. 
The Board and the Federal Reserve Banks will continue to cooperate 
with the Treasury in developing improved means of forecasting coin 
demand and fair and efficient methods of distribution of available 
supplies of coin. 
Sincerely, 
j 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

r » < > 
o b b i 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
3 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 3 
10/9/68 
O F F I C E • F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 9, 1968 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Legal and Monetary Affairs 
of the Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to the request in your September 9, 
1968, letter concerning Federal Reserve check clearance float and 
supplements information on that subject submitted to you by 
Governor George W. Mitchell in a letter dated September 8, 1967. 
I am pleased to report that float is currently running 
several hundred million dollars a day below levels prevailing in 
recent years. As noted in the attached table, daily average float 
climbed steadily from $1.6 billion in 1962 to a high of $2.1 billion 
in 1966. It has been running about $1.7 billion a day since then. 
We feel that this reduction is particularly impressive when con-
sidered in light of substantial increases in the volume and value 
of checks handled by the Federal Reserve System since the level of 
float is generally responsive to changes in these two factors. 
The extent of improvement comes into sharper focus when one considers 
that in 1962 the amount of checks processed without float came to 
62 per cent of the total handled, whereas last year this figure had 
improved to 75 per cent. We have reason to believe that the figures 
for this year will also show an improvement when they become available. 
To increase the effectiveness of our efforts to reduce 
float, a new monthly reporting system was introduced in January of 
this year showing major sources of float. Previously, this informa-
tion was available only when special surveys were made and these 
were usually conducted during the month of September. These data 
show that the proportionate composition of float by sources has 
changed substantially since September 1966--even though the absolute 
levels of these components have either declined or remained at about 
the same levels. The share of float attributable, to holdover and 

o - o o o 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-2-
late remittance has decreased, while the share of time schedule 
and transportation float has risen. These shifts are the results 
of various actions taken by the System to reduce float, but also 
reflect a persistent rise in the volume of interdistrict sendings 
as well as some deterioration in mail and airline delivery services. 
Governor Mitchell's letter to you mentioned steps that 
have been taken by the Federal Reserve System to diminish float 
and I would like to comment briefly on further progress which has 
been made in achieving this objective: 
Arrangements under which cash letters are paid for 
automatically are now in existence in 27 offices and 
are at various stages of development and implementa-
tion at the other 9 offices. 
Targets were established for monthly holdover levels 
and have been reached by 34 offices and are approaching 
that level in the remaining 2. 
Over-the-counter presentments of remittance drafts 
received too late for presentation in the clearings 
are being made by 27 Federal Reserve offices, account-
ing for all but negligible amounts of float reduction 
from such measures. 
Expansion of private carrier service for the delivery 
of checks is continuing wherever it is economically 
justified. 
As noted in the attached press release, the Federal Reserve 
System recently entered into a contract for the purchase, installation, 
and maintenance of a key segment of a computerized network which will 
eventually link the Reserve Banks and branches, the Board of Governors 
and the United States Treasury Department in an automated communica-
tions grid designed to move money, securities, and economic statistics. 
Plans are also being made for early linkage of Federal Reserve offices 
with computerized facilities operated by or on behalf of commercial 
banks which are members of the System or participate in its clearing 
arrangements. The signing of the contract for the communication switch 
represents a major preparatory step towards an electronic transfer 
system for bank deposits in the 1970's. Float will be all but eliminated 
when we reach the point where consumers and others can pay for goods and 
services by means of electronic transfers of funds between the affected 
institutions. 
2. 
3. 

The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-3-
While I am pleased to report on the progress which has 
been made in reducing or otherwise controlling float since the 
time of your Committee's report, I can offer you every assurance 
that we will not rest on our past accomplishments. We will con-
tinue to search for opportunities to reduce float wherever it can 
be reasonably achieved. 
Enclosures. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

•u •!J 
c 
o aj 
r-1 o 
PH 
•U (U 
CM 
o 
+J 
• - * 
H 
a) 4-> 
c 
3 
<u O 
r-l i 
U 
o o t > / 
N r i o i o v o m 
vO vO vo vO VO r*. 
o n co n o n 
n 
co c m o o o m 
ui 
GO 
«•"» O 
A 
IS 
A 
A 
A 
cm cm cm <""> < t 
m 
<j> 
cfl 
O 
7-A PH 
10 c> m cr> oo o> 
o in 
<f o 4 
v o r>- CD oo H 
\ o 
CM 
<}• co ctn o i—i 
OMO 
H o 
i-« r* cn CM r^ 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
A 
^ 
m vo vo 
<j> 
o 
> 
o 
r>. rt o ri m co 
• 
0 
A 
• 
• 
• 
CM ^ <t lO vO is 
i—I r-1 r—( i—I r-I i—l 
N n <}• lO VO (S 
vO vO vO vO vO vO 
( \ (7i C\ ON ON Ov 
d 
M 

3 o t > 8 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 0 5 S I 
Item No. 4 
10/9/68 
O F F I C E O F THE 
C H A I R M A N 
! : 
October 9, 1968 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell, 
Chairman, 
Legal and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee, 
Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of September 10, 1968, 
requesting a summary of actions taken by the Board which accord 
with the recommendations in your Committee's report "Window Dressing 
in Bank Reports" issued November 22, 1963. The Board's letters of 
December 4, 1963, and April 1, and October 15, 1964, to you, outlined 
the program of surveillance and moral suasion undertaken jointly with 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. In 1965 this continuing 
program was augmented by a plan adopted by the three Federal Bank 
Supervisory Agencies designed to disclose the more flagrant types 
of window dressing. 
Beginning with the June 1965 call, all member banks were 
required to report and publish at midyear and year-end call dates 
the average figure for total deposits and an average figure for 
total loans on the bank's books during the 15 days ending with the 
call dates. As stated in your report, the principal reason for 
window dressing is a desire by banks to appear larger or more liquid 
than they normally are. To accomplish this purpose window dressing 
is directed at short-term increases in deposits (particularly 
interbank deposits) and loans on call dates by means of nonbusiness 
purpose transactions. Comparisons of the 15-day deposit averages 
to the call date deposit totals, it was felt, would reveal most 
instances of excessive deposit expansion to the supervisory 
authorities and the public. 
These programs, together with a real desire on the part 
of the banking community to be rid of the practice, seem to have 
reduced sharply the use of window dressing in call reports. 

o b o r ) 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-2-
Of the fifty largest State member banks, in the top 200 
ranked according to deposits in the December 1967 call in the 
leading banking newspaper, all but one were well within a reasonable 
norm for expansion of deposits at year-end. A check by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of the one bank exceeding the norm indicated that the 
rise in deposit volume at this bank resulted from its designation 
as a depository for State funds. 
The fifty State member banks were also checked for 
possible short-term deposit and loan expansion by means of 
short-term nonbusiness purpose loans to customers. Using the 
ratio of the 15-day loan average to total loans to customers on 
the call report as an indicator all banks were found to be well 
within a reasonable norm. 
Efforts to eliminate the possibility of window dressing 
from the call report are continuing. A new and more sophisticated 
call report form is planned for use in 1969. A copy of the proposed 
form is enclosed. Under "Cash items" an inset will show the total 
of unposted debits. This will enable an analyst to eliminate any 
inflation of totals resulting from double counting of checks in 
process within the bank which have been added to a depositor's 
account, but have not been deducted from the account on which they 
were drawn. 
The principal factor giving purpose to window dressing 
is the publication of the newspaper lists ranking the largest 
banks. The figures used are not necessarily compiled from call 
reports or other published data but may be gathered in a survey 
using different criteria. For example, the deposit figures for 
banks in one listing included deposits of a bank and its affiliate 
banks. The manner of collecting and editing such data rests with 
the newspaper publisher. 
Thank you for your interest in our effort to eliminate 
this practice. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
l/ 
Enclosure 

<r > / n j-^-f' g 
v>0 Y'V 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
10/9/68 
ADDRESS • FFt C IAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO TH E BOARD 
October 9, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FRl 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
As requested in your letter of September 20, 1968, the Board 
of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structure at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York and the Buffalo Branch, effective October 10, 
1968. 
New York 
Clerical 
Nonclerical 
Buffalo 
Grade 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
1 
$ 3,432 $ 4,622 
$ 3,497 $ 4,713 
$ 3,328 $ 4,463 
2 
3,796 
5,120 
3,757 
5,071 
3,600 
4,865 
3 
4,212 
5,671 
4,017 
5,429 
3,940 
5,321 
4 
4,680 
6,307 
4,368 
5,898 
4,330 
5,841 
5 
5,170 
6,985 
4,758 
6,421 
4,740 
6,402 
6 
5,730 
7,738 
5,252 
7,083 
5,210 
7,028 
7 
6,340 
8,565 
5,824 
7,855 
5,700 
7,696 
8 
7,000 
9,445 
6,448 
8,709 
6,250 
8,438 
9 
7,720 
10,430 
7,163 
9,674 
6,850 
9,243 
10 
8,560 
11,554 
7,956 
10,748 
7,530 
10,165 
11 
9,500 
12,826 
8,840 
11,933 
8,300 
11,204 
12 
10,520 
14,204 
9,160 
12,370 
13 
11,700 
15,794 
10,150 
13,706 
14 
13,030 
17,596 
11,250 
15,190 
15 
14,480 
19,550 
12,510 
16,886 
16 
16,150 
21,800 
13,510 
18,232 
The Board also approves: (1) an increase In the salary 
maximum for full-time physicians from $21,500 to $22,500, and (2) the 
payment of salaries below the new grade minima to approximately 150 
employees for a period of six months. 
4 

TO: Mr. William F. Treiber 
- 2 -
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits 
specified for the grades in which their respective position are 
classified. All employees, except those exempted in the preceding 
paragraph, whose salaries are below the minima of their grades as a 
result of these structure increases should be brought within appro-
priate ranges within 90 days after the effective date of the new 
structures. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
* * £.2 
O i ) 
( 
Item No. 6 
10/9/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 9, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Security First Bank & Trust Co., 
Grand Haven, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves, pursuant to Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, an 
investment in bank premises of $1,300,000 by Security First Bank & 
Trust Co., Grand Haven, Michigan, for the construction of a new 
main office building, provided that the proposed sale of $600,000 
in capital notes is effected upon completion of the new building 
but in no event later than year-end 1969. 
The Board's approval of this application was based on 
the strong need for new quarters and the bank's satisfactory asset 
condition and management. Prior to approving this application, 
careful consideration was given to your bank's less than satisfactory 
capital position. Your bank's capital structure will, of course, 
be subjected to additional burden by the proposed investment in 
bank premises and by further deposit growth. Therefore, it is 
beiieved that further consideration should be given to all means 
of strengthening your bank's capital position, including a sale 
of new common stock in addition to the proposed sale of $600,000 
in capital notes. This matter deserves your close attention so 
that the growth and expansion plans of your bank will be on a 
sound basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. 
Assistant 
Forrestal, 
Secretary. 

Mi 
Re' 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 7 
10/9/68 
G E O R G E W. M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R 
OF T H E 
B O A R D 
October 9, 1968 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of September 5 in which 
you requested my views on a bill, H.R. 19417. I believe that my 
colleagues on the Board generally concur with the following. 
This bill would amend the first sentence of the second 
paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 343), 
pertaining to discount of commercial, agricultural, and industrial 
paper. It would, as we interpret it, change the System's authority in 
this area in two ways. First, it would extend the discount privilege 
on a regular basis to institutions other than member banks--i.e., 
Federally-insured savings and loan associations, mutual savings banks 
and Federal credit unions. Secondly, it would expand the present 
definition of so called "eligible paper" to include home mortgages 
and consumer finance paper. 
The bill would, however, apparently not change the last 
sentence of the second paragraph of section 13, which states that 
"notes, drafts, and bills admitted to discount under the terms of this 
paragraph must have a maturity at the time of discount of not more than 
90 days, exclusive of grace." In view of this, it seems doubtful that 
this bill would result in any large increase in the amount of paper 
actually eligible for rediscount, since most home mortgage and consumer 
paper could not meet this maturity requirement. 
The more significant aspect of H.R. 19417 is clearly the first 
change referred to, namely the extension of the discount privilege on a 
regular basis to institutions other than member banks. As a general 
principle, the Board is opposed to extending discount window access on 
a regular basis to financial institutions other than those that maintain 
specified levels of required reserves and related .day-to-day reporting 
ties with the Reserve Banks. 

• > f * f««< II 
v>0 < 1 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
monet.rv 
^ 
r e S e r v e requirements serve a fundamental purpose of 
credit IhP°H 
y' m P 0 ? i n 8 a f i n i t e U m i t 0 n t h e expansion of bank 
control 
c a n "suit from a given base. Without this kind of 
influeLr 
y- P 
1 C y W ° U l d I O S G a k 6 y G l e m e n t i n i t s ability to 
a piblic b r ° f ° r C a C
K
t i v i^> a n d r e s e ™e requirements therefore have 
In addition ihh 
^ k ^
8 
t h a t ° f t h e s u b J e c t institutions, 
on a week bv f \ r * q u i r e m e n t t h a t institutions maintain these reserves 
f r c r 
t
y 
6 
3 8 1 3 1 5 ° n e ° f t h e m aJ° r f a c t o r s creating needs 
window 
a S S 1 S t a n C G ° f a k i n d t h a t c a n be met at the discount 
banks t-h 
addition to fulfilling reserve requirements, member 
s u* ' < * °nly institutions now meeting the above conditions, are 
of reservp 
"rutiny by the System through daily reporting 
a u ^ ! ! T u ° P e r a t l ° n S l n t h G i r c l e a r ing accounts. These reports are 
ugmented by reports of condition and other regular statistical 
I 
I
f 
f f 
bf t H e b a n k S a S W e U a S b y P^iodic examinations. 
of t h . * ' 
?eralReS6rVe 
B a n k S h° l d i n c u s t o d y significant amounts 
thpe 
? 
marketable assets owned by member banks. As a result of 
with6 relati°nships, the Reserve Banks make loans to member banks 
bor 
a
#substantial awareness of the current circumstances of the 
rrowmg bank. Such would not be the case with other financial 
rel.i 
u n S' ^ 
° n l y b y maintaining a direct day-to-day reporting 
to 
a°n!h,lp 
institutions can the System stay adequately informed 
undertake a day-to-day lending relationship. 
teener • 
Tu i S S h° U l d n 0 t b e t a k e n t o ^Piy that the System does not 
cognize the possible need to lend to other institutions under 
jergency conditions. As this committee is aware, section 13 
inda§r!Ph 1 3 ° f t h G federal Reserve Act authorizes lending to'-'any 
conlVld"al> Partnership or corporation." Such action was seriously 
bank 
a t e d i n t h e S U m m e r ° f 1 9 6 6 i n t h e c a s e o f mutual savings 
S u • S' and> ^ 
fact, specific arrangements were set up to carry out 
cn an operation. While use of these arrangements did not then 
h ove necessary, the recently published report of the System 
^mmittee on redesign of the discount mechanism articulated and 
attirmed t h e s e 
a r r a n g e m e n t s 
a s 
b e i n g 
t h e 
a p p r o p r i a t e 
w a y 
t Q 
d e a l 
^cn emergency conditions when Federal Reserve action becomes 
cessary for any class of nonmember financial institutions. 
must- • 
U n d e r t h e c u r r e n t statute, this kind of credit extension 
t m most cases be done indirectly, using a member bank or, where 
PPropriate, the responsible Government agency as a conduit, since 
andeCt l 0 a n S m U S t b e s e c u r e d by U-s- Government or agency securities 
those latter assets are not held in any sizable volume by most 
nmember institutions. The conduit procedure, whereby the Federal 

O O 
<
y
j 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
Reserve would lend funds to a cooperating member bank which would, in 
turn and by prior agreement, make loans to the nonmember institutions, 
is a workable and logical extension of established business practices.' 
This procedure could be used in emergencies without great difficulties. 
With regard to the other principal provision of H.R. 19417 
the inclusion in the eligible paper definition of home mortgages and' 
consumer finance paper, the Board would question the efficacy of this 
type of "piece-meal" broadening of eligibility requirements. As this 
committee is aware, the Board is concerned about the current narrow 
restrictions on the types of paper which may be accepted from member 
banks for discount or as collateral for advances. Shortages of bank 
holdings of these types of paper as well as of U.S. Government and 
agency securities not otherwise pledged can needlessly complicate the 
lending operation and could at times have serious implications for the 
operation of the discount window, forcing member bank borrowings to be 
done under section 10(b) at a penalty rate of interest. In addition, 
the eligibility concept is based on an outmoded and disproven theory--
that the legitimate needs of the economy for bank credit would always 
be exactly reflected in the volume of these short-term, self-liquidating 
loans--and causes unnecessary administrative burdens for both the 
member banks and the Reserve Banks. 
The possibility of a serious shortage of eligible paper is of 
course lessened to a degree by any broadening of the restrictions, even 
one so slight as we feel would in fact result from H.R. 19417. However, 
the Board feels that a far more practical approach in the long run would 
be the complete elimination of the eligibility concept, to be replaced 
by a provision that would permit loans collateralized by any asset 
acceptable to the Reserve Bank. Such a change is embodied in the 
Senate-passed bill, S. 966, now pending in the House. The Board would 
favor the broader provision of that bill on the issue of eligibility 
requirements and strongly urges its passage. 
As noted earlier, an even narrower restriction—limitation to 
U.S. Government and agency securities — is imposed by paragraph 13 of 
section 13 on the kinds of collateral which may be accepted from non-
member institutions borrowing directly from the Federal Reserve under 
the emergency provisions. The conduit arrangement which would generally 
be necessitated by this restriction is viewed as workable, as has also 
been noted. However, speaking for myself, I would favor a broadening 
of this requirement also to any acceptable asset, paralleling that 
recommended for member banks. -It would seem likely that such a change 
would at least in some cases simplify the procedures of emergency 
lending for all those concerned, and there appears to be no strong 
logical reason for the current requirement which would offset the 
benefits that might be gained by liberalizing it. 

-4-
» >.» » p»ir f * 
O O r O 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
On a purely technical matter, we might note that H.R. 19417 
would allow advances on the security of the enumerated kinds of paper 
to member banks, but would limit other institutions to the rediscount 
procedure (see section 13, paragraph 8). This presumably would not be 
an insuperable obstacle, but over the years member banks have come to 
rely almost exclusively on the advance route, and it is the near-
unanimous view of those involved that this is far more workable than 
rediscounting. 
In sum, with regard to the major issue involved in H.R. 19417, 
the Board cannot endorse the principle of regular lending to institutions 
which bear none of the costs of System membership and with which the 
System has no direct day-to-day relationship. Rather it feels that the 
normal credit needs of these institutions should continue to be met 
through established channels, where a regular business relationship 
already exists. Most types of nonbank financial institutions have 
borrowing relationships with commercial banks as a matter of course, 
and it would seem that in most cases these should prove adequate to 
meet normal credit needs. In addition, in some areas, an appropriate 
central lending agency exists. The Federal Reserve would, of course, 
continue, in its role as lender of last resort to all sectors of the 
economy, to backstop commercial banks, central lending agencies, and 
where necessary the institutions themselves to forestall any major 
economic disruption. 
Sincerely yours, 
