Minutes for March 12, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 7 
Amendment to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, 
and adoption of Supplement III. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
4>> 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Changes from draft minutes: 
Page 3 - Editorial changes in first sentence of third complete paragraph 
Page 8 - Editorial change in first sentence of last incomplete paragraph 
Zm 
ML 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 12, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Greenspan, Lynch, Noble, Plotkin, 
and Tuttle of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Lawrence, and Schweitzer of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Brumbaugh, Garwood, Goodfellow, Kline, 
Larmore, McAninch, and Ryan of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 

753 
3/12/70 
-9-
The following letters were approved unanimously after consider-
ation of background information that had been made available to the Board. 
Copies are attached under the respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The First National Bank of Chicago, 
1 
Chicago, Illinois, granting consent for that 
bank to continue to hold shares of The First 
National Bank of Chicago (Lebanon) S.A.L., 
Beirut, Lebanon, after the latter establishes 
a branch in Beirut. 
Let ter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
2 
concluding that section 8 of the Clayton Act 
would prohibit service by an individual as a 
director of a wholly-owned credit card subsid-
iary of a member bank while serving as a 
director of another member bank in a contigu-
ous area. 
Letter to the Chairman of the Senate Select 
3 
Committee on Small Business transmitting a 
special report on recent changes in banking 
structure in the United States. 
(A copy of 
the report has been placed in the Board's 
files.) 
It was noted that an article based on the banking structure 
report had been published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin; it was 
suggested that consideration be given to having the full report pub-
lished by the Board unless it was going to be issued as a Committee 
Print. 
Nassau branches. Letters to United States National Bank of 
Oregon, Portland, Oregon, and Old Kent Bank and Trust Company, Grand 
Rapids, Michigan, granting permission for the establishment of branches 

3/12/70 
-10-
in Nassau, Bahamas, were approved, Governor Robertson dissenting and 
Governor Brimmer abstaining. Copies of the letters are attached as 
Items 4 and 5, respectively. 
Bank of the Commonwealth. In a memorandum dated March 4, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation concurred in the Chicago 
Federal Reserve Bank's recommendation for denial of applications of 
Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to establish a branch in 
Nassau, Bahamas, and to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act to be known as Commonwealth International Bank. 
Attached to the memorandum were draft letters supporting this recommenda-
tion. 
In a memorandum dated March 10 the Legal Division suggested sev-
eral alternative courses of Board action, short of denial, that might be 
considered. 
During discussion Governors Daane and Brimmer expressed initially 
a preference for allowing the applications to be withdrawn, but the 
majority of the Board favored denial. The unsatisfactory condition of 
the bank was noted, along with the potential for worsening the situation 
if the volume and scope of its activities were further expanded. It was 
the consensus that in the circumstances a firmness of position was warranted. 
It was pointed out that the Board's action would of necessity 
become a matter of public information if the applications were denied, and 
that this might create doubt as to the soundness of the bank. Agreement 
was reached that certain paragraphs in the proposed letters to the 

3/12/70 
-10-
applicant should appropriately be deleted before release of the letters 
in response to any public inquiry. Agreement also was reached on dele-
ting one portion of the draft letters that was considered unnecessary. 
> 
The applications were then denied by unanimous vote and the 
sending of letters in the form attached as Items 6 and 7 was approved. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of New Jersey National Bank 
and Trust Company, Neptune Township, New Jersey, with First Trenton 
Nat ional Bank, Trenton, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
There is no effective competition existing between 
First Trenton National Bank and New Jersey National Bank 
and Trust Company, Neptune Township, and potential for 
increased competition between them is limited. While the 
proposal would not eliminate a banking alternative in 
either of the areas served by the two banks, it would en-
hance the competitive position of the largest bank in the 
Second Banking District. On balance, the overall effect 
of the proposed merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Hamilton National Ass ociates. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on January 30, 1970, of the application 
of Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, Tennessee, 
to acquire shares of Citizens Bank of White Pine, White Pine, Tennessee, 
had been distributed. A dissenting statement by Governors Robertson 
and Maisel had also been distributed. 

756 
3/12/70 
-9-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 8, along with 
the dissenting statement. 
First Midwest Bancorp. Drafts of an order and statement reflect-
ing the Board's approval on March 3, 1970, of the application of First 
Midwest Bancorp., Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of (1) the successor by merger 
to The First National Bank of St. Joseph; (2) The First Trust Bank, St. 
Joseph; and (3) First Stock Yards Bank, South St. Joseph, had been dis-
tributed . 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 9. 
Charter Bankshares. Drafts of orders and a statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on February 26, 1970, of the applications of Charter 
Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of The 
First National Bank in St. Petersburg; The Harbor City National Bank of 
Eau Gallie; and First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, had been 
distributed. A concurring statement by Governor Brimmer and a dissent-
ing statement by Governor Robertson had also been distributed. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 10, along with 
the concurring and dissenting statements. 

757 
3/12/70 
-9-
Bank holding company applications. Upon consideration of 
relevant documents that had been made available to the Board, includ-
ing proposed orders and statements that could be used if the Board 
acted favorably, the following applications were approved unanimously 
and the issuance of the respective orders and statements was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under the indicated 
item numbers. 
Item No. 
i 
•'• 
• • 
Order and statement on the application of 
11 
C. B. Investment Corporation, Houston, Texas, 
to acquire additional shares of The Lake Jackson 
Bank of Lake Jackson, Texas. 
Order and statement on the application of 
12 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to 
The Barnitz Bank, Middletown, Ohio. 
United Bancorp of Maine. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated March 5, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of 
United Bancorp of Maine, Portland, Maine, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of Norway National Bank, 
Norway, Maine, which would be in addition to those of one bank already 
controlled. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 

758 
3/12/70 
-9-
Midlantic Banks. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated March 4, 1970, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Midlantic 
Banks, Inc., Newark, New Jersey, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Elmer Bank and Trust Company, 
Elmer; and of the successors by merger to National Newark & Essex Bank, 
Newark; The Sussex and Merchants National Bank of Newton; and Raritan 
Valley National Bank, Edison. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
First Florida Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated March 4, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with applications of First 
Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of The State 
Bank of Jacksonville and The State Bank of Arlington, both in Jackson-
ville. The recommendations were favorable. 
The applications were approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that orders and a statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Regulation Z. Pursuant to action by the Board on December 15, 
1969, a proposed amendment to Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, had been 

759 
3/12/70 
-9-
published in the Federal Register for comment. The amendment was 
designed to preserve the ability of consumers to file civil actions 
under the Truth in Lending Act in Federal as well as in State courts 
after one or more classes- of credit transactions within a State had 
been exempted by the Board from the applicable requirements of the Act. 
In a memorandum dated March 9, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended that the proposed amendment be approved in a 
modified form (not affecting the substance) and that a Supplement III to 
Regulation Z be adopted that would list each class of credit transaction 
within a specified State that had been granted an exemption. 
The supplement would also reflect the further recommendation of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation (set forth in another memoran-
dum dated March 9, 1970) that exemptions from certain requirements of 
Regulation Z applied for by the State of Maine with respect to specified 
classes of credit transactions be granted. 
Governor Robertson noted that the proposed amendment to Regula-
tion Z had the support of the Truth in Lending Advisory Committee, various 
members of the Congress, and consumer interest groups. 
Reservation was expressed by Governor Mitchell as to the desir-
ability of the proposal in terms of State-Federal relationships, at least 
pending further clarification of the Board's authority. Members of the 

760 
3/12/70 
-9-
staff summarized arguments supporting the proposed action, drawing in 
part upon the legislative history. Other comments stressed the impor-
tance of the availability of class action remedies in the consumer 
field. It was conceded that there was a possibility that the Board 
might be overstepping its authority. However, it was the unanimous view 
of staff who had worked on the problem that the proposed amendment was 
in the right direction. 
In connection with the companion proposal to exempt the State 
of Maine from certain requirements of Regulation Z, question was raised 
whether procedures were in place to assure satisfactory performance by 
exempted States of their responsibilities. 
It was stated that surveil-
lance procedures were being developed, and it was noted that the right 
to impose them was preserved in Regulation Z. In addition, considerable 
reliance could be placed on the watchfulness of consumer interest groups. 
The amendment to Regulation Z was then approved unanimously 
effective March 12, 1970, and Supplement III was adopted. The State of 
Maine was granted exemption under the Federal Truth in Lending Act 
effective April 1, 1970. Copies of the press release and of the docu-
ments reflecting these actions, as subsequently published in the Federal 
Register, are attached under Item No. 13. 
Amalgamated Bank. Governor Robertson displayed an advertisement 
by Amalgamated Bank, New York, as carried in a New York City newspaper, 
offering participation certificates in $500 units in a pool of Government 

3/12/70 
-10-
securities with a guaranteed yield of 7 per cent. His purpose was to 
bring the matter to the Board's attention, and he indicated that it 
would be studied further by the staff. 
Symposium. Governor Sherrill referred to a proposed expendi-
ture of approximately $8,800 to cover the cost of a two-day symposium 
on the econometrics of price determination, to be held in late October. 
In view of Governor Maisel's interest in the work being done in this 
area, it was agreed to defer the matter until a meeting at which Governor 
Maisel could be present. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Philadelphia salaries. The Board confirmed that action taken 
on salaries of Reserve Bank Presidents and First Vice Presidents in 
December 1969 had encompassed approval of salaries for President Eastburn 
and First Vice President Melnicoff of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank at 
the annual rates of $45,000 and $37,500, respectively, for the period 
March 1 through December 31, 1970. It was understood that advice to 
this effect would be sent to the Chairman of the Philadelphia Bank, with 
acknowledgment that the Bank had expressed the view that further consid-
eration should be given to the salary of the First Vice President at the 
end of this year. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Phila-
delphia Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 14. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

i 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1970 
The First National Bank of Chicago, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
• i 
i 
» ••' 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of February 6, 1970, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for The First National 
Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, to continue to hold 
the shares of The First National Bank of Chicago (Lebanon) 
S.A.L., Beirut, Lebanon, after the Lebanon bank establishes 
a branch on Hamra Street in Beirut. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is 
opened for business, furnishing information as to the 
exact location of the branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
Q r r l C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 13, 1970 
Mr. Welford S. Farmer, Senior Vice 
President and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Farmer: 
This is in response to your letter of February 6, 1970, 
requesting a Board determination as to whether service by Mr. Harry 
Malasky as a Director of the American National Bank, Silver Spring, 
Maryland, is permitted by Section 8 of the Clayton Act in view of the 
fact that he is a director and Chairman of Central Charge Service, Inc., 
a wholly-owned subsidiary of Riggs National Bank, Washington, D. C. 
The argument is advanced that because Section 8 specifically 
refers to inter locking'service only between'tanks, rather than between 
banks and subsidiaries of banks, the section is not applicable. 
Central 
Charge Service, Inc., is an operations subsidiary within the interpretation 
of the Comptroller of the Currency published in his Manual at paragraph 7376. 
Under this interpretation, the subsidiary is subject to all statutes 
applicable to national banks. The Board is of the view that the subsidiary, 
Central Charge Service, Inc., should be viewed essentially as a department 
or division of Riggs National Bank and that a contrary view would be 
unrealistic and inconsistent with the purpose of Section 8. 
A further argument presented is that the exception in subsection 
(6) of Section 8 and section 9(6) of the Board's Regulation L is applicable, 
it being urged that American National Bank and Central Charge are not 
engaged in the same class or classes of business. The Board is of the 
opinion that the exception is not applicable since Central Charge is in 
reality a division or department of Riggs and Riggs and American National 
engage in the same classes of business. Furthermore, the credit card 
business is but a facet or form of credit or loan business and, therefore, 
not a class of business essentially different from business in which 
American National Bank engages. 
Silver Spring, Maryland, and the District of Columbia are 
"contiguous". Accordingly, no question arises as to the applicability 
of the exception in subsection(5) of Section 8. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Mr. Welford S. Farmer 
' 
-2-
In view of the above, the Board will appreciate your Bank 
advising Mr. Malasky that, in its opinion, his continued service with 
both Central Charge Service, Inc., and American National Bank is in 
violation of Section 8 of the Clayton Act. An extra copy of this 
letter is enclosed for that purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
s 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

'•rf^t^f.' 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
3/12/70 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
March 13, 1970. 
The Honorable Alan Bible, Chairman, 
Select Committee on Small Business, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As requested in Senator Smathers1 letter of November 13, 
1968, to Chairman Martin, there is enclosed a special report 
prepared by the staff of the Banking Markets Section, Division 
of Research and Statistics of the Board of Governors for the 
Senate Select Committee on Small Business. The report, entitled 
"Recent Changes in Banking Structure in the United States," brings 
up to date two similar reports submitted to the Committee in 
August 1952 and January 1962. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

^LRtsf:-
7ti6 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
3/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R F S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1970 
United States National Bank of Oregon, 
321 S. W. Sixth Avenue, 
Portland, Oregon. 
97208 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to United States National Bank of Oregon, Portland, 
Oregon, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and 
of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. In view of the unusual character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing special 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may be with-
drawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the 
condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly 
informed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, 
including changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 

7G7 
United States National Bank 
of Oregon 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
213.7 of Regulation M), The general purno.se of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With r espect to the establishment of foreign branches 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum re-
liance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. 
Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of your bank and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
. • . .. 
>r 
•" 
.. 
r 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

768 
Item No. 5 
3/12/70 
I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T H E 
B O A R D 
1970 
Old Kent Bank and Trust Company, 
Number One Vandenberg Center, 
Grand Rapids, Michigan. 
49502 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Old Kent Bank and Trust Company, Grand Rapids, 
Michigan, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to 
operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such 
Sections and of Regulation M. The foregoing permission is granted 
subject to any necessary approval of the Commissioner of Banking for 
the State of Michigan. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
Stat es. It is also understood that there is to be no contact with 
the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and 
bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by 
another party. In view of the special character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing observa-
tion and review by the Board and after due notice may be withdrav/n 
or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the condi-
tion that adequate information covering the branch's operations will 
be maintained at your head office and will be available to the Board 
and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
informed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, 
including changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before April 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
• • f W w ^ V 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C 
T D 
March 12, 

t !>J 
Old Kent Bank and Trust Company 
-2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 'The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Qe 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 
213.7 of Regulation M)„ 
The general purpose of these exemptions is 
to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. 
In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated'capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of' 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3/12/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1970. 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth, 
719 Griswold Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 
48231 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to Mr. George W. Miller's letter of 
November 17, 1969, addressed to Vice President Morrison, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, requesting permission of the Board of 
Governors to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
In deciding whether to approve or deny an application to 
establish a foreign branch, the Board must determine whether estab-
lishment of the proposed branch would be consistent with the public 
interest. Among the considerations relevant to such a determination 
are the financial history and condition of the applying bank, in-
cluding its liquidity and capital position, the general character 
of its management and the experience of the management in inter-
national banking operations, the adequacy of its capital structure 
in relation to the character and condition of its assets and to its 
deposit liabilities and other corporate responsibilities, and the 
convenience and needs of the bank's customers and potential cus-
tomers with particular reference to the furtherance of the foreign 
commerce of the United States. 
Upon careful review, it is the Board's considered judgment 
that, by any reasonable standards, a serious deterioration has oc-
curred in the financial condition of your bank. For some time, the 
asset structure of the bank has reflected an inadequate regard for 
liquidity, and the bank's capital has been disquietingly low in re-
lation to the character and condition of its assets and its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. Moreover, such 
inadequate regard for liquidity and capital needs has been evident 
in the bank's use of additional funds obtained through increased 
deposits ana otherwise. 

771 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
- 2 -
The following comparisons illustrate the unsatisfactory-
condition of your bank as of January 28, 1970, and were among the 
many facts taken into account in arriving at a judgment that the 
financial condition of your bank has suffered a serious deteriora-
tion. Comparisons are made with the 335 large commercial banks 
throughout the United'Spates which" report weekly to the Federal 
Reserve System and with the 55 of those reporting banks located in 
t:he Seventh Fed£ra#iReserv^ 
RATIO* 
Borrowings/ 
Gross Capital 
Large U. S, 
Banks 
73 
Cash and U. S. Govern-
ment securities minus 
borrowings/Total Deposits 42 
Gross Capital/Total Assets 
9.1 
Gross Capital/Total Assets 
minus Cash and U. S. Gov-
ernment securities 
12.3 
Large 7th 
Bank of the 
Di strict Banks 
Commonwealth 
Percentages 
84 
22 
9.2 
12.3 
325 
(-17) 
6.2 
6.5 
* 
Borrowings—Federal. Funds purchased and securities sold under 
repurchase agreements plus borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank 
and others; Gross Capital — Total capital accounts plus reserves for 
bad debts; Cash--Cash in vault plus due from banks and items in the 
process of collection. As of the date shown, cash plus Government 
securities totaled $105 million, and borrowings totaled $286 million, 
for Bank of the Commonwealth. 

/ 4 & 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
-3-
In the circumstances, the Board has concluded that the 
general character of Bank of the Commonwealth's management and the 
bank's financial history and condition, including its liquidity and 
capital positions, militate against approval of the present applica-
tion; that the adverse effects of establishment of the proposed 
branch would outweigh any benefit accruing to the convenience and 
needs of the bank's or the proposed branch's customers or potential 
customers; and that approval of the application would be contrary 
to the public interest. Accordingly, the Board has denied the 
application of Bank of the Commonwealth to establish the proposed 
branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

7 73 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
3/12/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1970. 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth, 
719 GriswoId Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 
48231 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to Mr. George W. Miller's letter of 
November 17, 1969, requesting permission of the Board of Governors 
to organize a corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as "Commom^ealth International 
Bank", with its home office to be located in Detroit, Michigan, and 
with an agency to be located in New York, New York. The letter in-
dicates that the proposed corporation would be wholly owned by Bank 
of the Commonwealth. 
In deciding whether to approve or deny an application to 
organize a corporation pursuant to Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act, the Board must determine whether organization of the pro-
posed corporation would be consistent with the public interest. 
Among the considerations relevant to such a determination are the 
prospective financial condition of the proposed corporation, and 
the general character of its prospective management; the experience 
of the management in international banking operations; the adequacy 
of the proposed corporation's capital structure in relation to the 
character and condition of its prospective assets and to its pro-
spective deposit liabilities and other corporate responsibilities; 
its future earnings prospects; and the convenience and needs of the 
corporation's customers and potential customers with particular 
reference to the furtherance of the foreign commerce of the United 
States. When, as here, the proposed corporation would be a wholly-
owned subsidiary of a bank, the general character of the management 
of the bank and the financial history and condition of the bank, 
including its liquidity and capital positions, are central to such 
determination. 
Accordingly, the Board has carefully reviewed those aspects 
as they relate to your bank. It is the Board's considered judgment 

774 
Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
- 2 -
that, by any reasonable standards, a serious deterioration has oc-
curred in the financial condition of your bank. For some time the 
asset structure of the bank has reflected an inadequate regard'for 
liquidity, and the bank's capital has been disquietingly low in re-
lation to the character and condition of its assets and its deposit 
liabilities and other corporate responsibilities. Moreover 
such 
inadequate regard for liquidity and capital needs has been evident 
in the bank's use of additional funds obtained through increased 
deposits and otherwise. 
The following comparisons illustrate the unsatisfactory 
condition of your bank as of January 28, 1970, and were among the 
many facts taken into account in arriving at a judgment that the 
financial condition of your bank has suffered a serious deteriora-
tion. Comparisons are made with the 335 large commercial banks 
throughout the United States which report weekly to the Federal 
Reserve System and with the 55 of those reporting banks located in 
the Seventh Federal Reserve District. 
RATIO* 
Borrowings/ 
Gross Capital 
Large U. S, 
Banks 
Large 7th 
Bank of the 
District Banks 
Commonwealth 
Percentages 
73 
Cash and U. S. Govern-
ment securities minus 
borrowings/Total Deposits 42 
Gross Capital/Total Assets 
9.1 
Gross Capital/Total Assets 
minus Cash and U. S. Gov-
ernment securities 
12.3 
84 
22 
9.2 
12.3 
325 
(-17) 
6.2 
6.5 
* Borrowings--Federal funds purchased and securities sold under re-
purchase agreements plus borrowings from the Federal Reserve Bank and 
others; Gross Capital—Total capital accounts plus reserves for bad 
debts; Cash--Cash in vault plus due from banks and items in the process 
of collection. As of the date shown, cash plus Government securities 
totaled $105 million, and borrowings totaled $286 million for Bank of 
the Commonwealth. 

Board of Directors, 
Bank of the Commonwealth 
-3-
In the circumstances, the Board has concluded that the 
general character of Bank of the Commonwealth's management and the 
bank's financial history and condition, including its liquidity and 
capital positions, militate against approval of the present applica-
tion; that the adverse effects of organization of the proposed cor-
poration would outweigh any benefit accruing to the convenience and 
needs of the bank's or the proposed corporation's customers or poten-
tial customers; and that approval of the application would be contrary 
to the public interest. Accordingly, the Board has denied the appli-
cation of Bank of the Commonwealth to organize the proposed corpora-
tion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

776 
Item No. 8 
3/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
HAMILTON NATIONAL ASSOCIATES, 
' 
INCORPORATED, 
f 
Chattanooga, Tennessee, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
Citizens Bank of White Pine, White Pine,' 
Tennessee. 
i 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Hamilton National 
Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, Tennessee, a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of White Pine, 
White Pine, Tennessee. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks of 
the State of Tennessee and requested his views and recommendation thereon. 

777 
The Supericiendent responded that no objection to the proposed transaction 
would be made by his office. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 24, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17315), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 12, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and 
Maisel. 
Chairman Burns was not a member of the Board on the date of 
the Board's decision. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

778 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS •. ! 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY HAMILTON NATIONAL ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED, CHATTANOOGA, 
TENNESSEE, FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
CITIZENS BANK OF WHITE PINE, WHITE PINE, TENNESSEE 
STATEMENT 
Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, 
Tennessee ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of White 
Pine, White Pine, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave i^ritten notice of 
receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks of the State 
of Tennessee and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Superintendent replied that h is office would not object to the proposed 
transaction. 
Statutory cons iderat ions.- Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
nionopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 

779 
-11-
. ' i , J 
any part of the United States* N6r may the Board approve a proposed 
i , 
i 
i 
, 
• 
. 
acquisition, the effect of whidh, ih ahy section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Tennessee control about 57 per cent of State 
deposits." 
Applicant, the fifth largest of these organizations, controls 
6 per cent of State deposits. Three other bank holding companies, two 
of which are headquartered outside the State, have subsidiary banks in 
Tennessee; none of such companies is among the State's 10 largest banking 
organizations. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would have no measurable 
effect on State-wide deposit concentration. 
Bank ($3.6 million deposits) is the only bank in White Pine, 
Jefferson County, Tennessee, and the smallest of four banks in a trade 
area which is centered in Morristown (Hamblen County), eight miles north 
°f White Pine. The trade area includes all of Hamblen County and the 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

780 
area surrounding White Pine in adjoitiikg Jeffetsbn County. All three 
principal competitors of Bank are located in Morristown. Bank also 
competes, to a lesser extent, with two banks in Jefferson County; a 
$9 million deposit bank in Jefferson City, 10 miles west of White Pine, 
and a $6.5 million deposit bank in Dandridge, 10 miles southwest. 
One of Applicant's present subsidiary banks is located in 
Morristown, and, with about $22 million deposits, is the largest bank 
in the trade area, although it is nearly equalled in size by an 
independent Morristown bank. Consummation of the proposal would 
eliminate some present competition between the Morristown subsidiary and 
Rank, which is located at the fringe of the area served by the former. 
However, the extent of such competition does not appear significant. 
Bank exerts little competitive impact on the Morristown area, and the 
area immediately surrounding White Pine represents only a minor part of 
the Morristown subsidiary's market. The fact that the county line 
SeParates Morristown and White Pine limits the potential for future 
competition between present and proposed subsidiaries, since branching 
in Tennessee is restricted to the county in which a bank is headquartered. 
Bank's affiliation with Applicant will make more feasible the establishment 
bV Bank of branches in other parts of Jefferson County, thus increasing 
Potential competition in those areas. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly, nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 

7 R 1 
-4-
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor restrain trade in any 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition of Applicant and its 10 subsidiary banks is satisfactory 
all have satisfactory management and favorable prospects. Bank is in 
sound financial condition, has capable management, and has favorable 
prospects. 
The banking factors as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks, and Bank are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not significantly affect the convenience 
or needs of the communities served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
It appears that most of the banking services required by the 
community served by Bank are presently being provided. However, trust 
services could be more conveniently offered to the area through Bank's 
affiliation with Applicant. In addition, internal efficiencies could 
b e effected and management succession better assured, which would 
indirectly benefit Bank's customers. Larger credit demands could be 
accommodated through participations with other Applicant subsidiaries. 
• i 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
areas involved weigh somewhat in favor of approval of the application. 

Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all releVattt facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 12, 1970. 

7s3 
! 
i I L1 
Dissenting Statement of Governors Robertson and Maisel 
Our disseilt fr om the Board's action is based upon our conclusion 
that Applicant's proposal would have significant anticompetitive effects 
which are not outweighed by any other considerations presented in the 
record. Applicant presently controls a bank which accounts for over 
per cent of the deposits in what is recognized to be the most relevant 
Market within which to measure the competitive effects of the proposal. 
Bank is one of only three banks competing with Applicant's subsidiary 
i n that market. 
Its acquisition by Applicant will result in the elimination 
o f significant existing competition, and Applicant's share of the deposits 
the market will be increased to more than 47 per cent. A proposal which 
would have such effects should not be approved, absent compelling 
considerations involving the financial condition of the bank, deficient 
banking service in the area, or both. Even then, approval should be 
given only in the absence of alternatives which would solve any banking 
0 r service problems which might exist in a manner more consistent with 
tl*e preservation of competition. 
The majority's failure to become aroused over the anticompetitive 
implications of Applicant's proposal is perhaps explained by Bank's limited 
si 2 ei and the fact that the market area involved is not economically 
important. But the values of competition are not to be more lightly 
re8arded in a rural context than in an urban one. The typical rural 
resident is at least equally as powerless as his urban counterpart to 
resist the arbitrariness of the economic conditions which may be 
bilaterally imposed in a market dominated by a single supplier of an • 
essential service. 

784 
-2-
Neifchfer1 is it appropriate to assume that conclusions regarding 
the size necessary to achieve economies of scale, which may be completely 
valid in an urban setting, are necessarily applicable to a rural area 
where banking requirements are much less complex. A $4 million bank 
may be incapable of efficiently serving an area's needs for data 
processing services or large-scale commercial and industrial financing; 
however, a bank of that size may be completely capable of providing banking 
service to an area with different needs. 
In the present case, it appears that all banks in the area 
involved are operating profitably; the area is not overbanked. As the 
Majority acknowledges, Bank is in sound financial condition, has competent 
management, and its prospects as an independent bank are favorable. Its 
earnings, in fact, are above the average of banks of similar size in its 
Federal Reserve District. There is no evidence of credit demands in its 
area which Bank cannot meet. Bank does not offer trust services, but there 
appears to be little demand for them in its area, and, in any case, such 
services are already available from one of Applicant's subsidiaries located 
only eight miles away, with a good highway spanning the short distance. 
Under these circumstances, the fact that bank is relatively small is of no 
significance in measuring its capability as an alternative source of all 
major services needed in its area, and the fact that the area is not heavily 
Populated, and that therefore only a minute portion of the general public 
will be in any way affected by Applicant's proposal, does not alter the 
conclusion that those who will be affected will be disserved by consummation 
of the acquisition. 

785 
i 
There is no evidence that any community will benefit froift the 
proposal. The majority suggest that the proposed acquisition provides 
a vehicle through which Applicant can obtain branches, and thereby compete, 
in other areas of Jefferson County. That suggestion might be entitled to 
some weight if it had come from Applicant; the application, however, 
indicates nothing more than Applicant's desire to achieve an even more 
prominent position in a market which it presently dominates. We would 
attribute no deeper purpose to the proposal than that which Applicant 
claims for it. 
On the record before the Board, it is our conviction that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will not be in the public interest. 
We would therefore deny the application. 
March 12, 1970. 

786 
Item No. 9 
3/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST MIDWEST BANCORP., INC., 
St. Joseph, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 
a U (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the voting shares of the successor by merger 
to The First National Bank of St, Joseph; 
The First Trust Bank, St. Joseph; and First 
Stock Yards Bank, South St. Joseph, all in 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Midwest 
Bancorp., Inc., St, Joseph, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval 
o f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of all (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
t he voting shares of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of 
S t. Joseph, St. Joseph; The First Trust Bank, St. Joseph; and First Stock 
Yards Bank, South St. Joseph, all in Missouri. 

787 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice to the Comptroller of the Currency and the Commissioner of Finance 
of the State of Missouri of receipt of the application and requested their 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval, and the 
Commissioner offered no objection. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 25, 1969 (34 Federal Register 18833), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 13,1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

788 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST MIDWEST BANCORP., INC., ST. JOSEPH, MISSOURI, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Midwest Bancorp., Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all (less 
directors1 qualifying shares) of the voting shares of a new national bank 
into which it proposes to merge The First National Bank of St. Joseph, 
St. Joseph ("First National"); The First Trust Bank, St. Joseph ("First 
Trust"); and First Stock Yards Bank, South St. Joseph ("First Stock Yards"), 
3 1 1 i n Missouri. First National is a registered bank holding company by 
virtue of the fact that its president holds in trust for the benefit of 
it:s shareholders all of the outstanding stock (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of First Trust, which, in turn, directly owns all of the stock 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of First Stock Yards. 
The proposal contemplates a reorganization through which the 
status of First National as a bank holding company will be terminated. 
Th 
e new bank has significance only as a vehicle for accomplishing 

789 
thjlM 
acquisition of all the shares of First National. Upon acquisition of the 
new bank by Applicant, and merger of First National into the new bank, 
Applicant will succeed to beneficial ownership of the shares of First 
Trust. The trust will then be terminated, pursuant to provisions of the 
trust indenture, resulting in Applicants direct ownership of the shares 
°f First Trust. Finally, Applicant will acquire the shares of First Stock 
Yards from First Trust. As a result of these transactions, Applicant will 
thus directly own the shares of each of the three banks. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and the Commissioner of 
Finance of the State of Missouri and their views and recommendations 
W e r e re<iuested. The Comptroller recommended approval, and the Commissioner 
offered no objection. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the ^ct provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
PQrt of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
t o lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
t h e anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 

790 
-11-
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - First 
National ($51 million deposits)^ is located in downtown St. Joseph, 
Missouri. First Trust ($6 million deposits) is located at the east edge 
°f St. Joseph, and First Stock Yards ($14 million deposits) is located 
in the stockyards area known as South St. Joseph. 
Inasmuch as the proposed acquisition involves a reorganization 
°f a holding company system, and reflects neither expansion of that system 
any significant change in the character of the system's banking facilities, 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not alter existing banking 
competition, nor affect potential competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not 
^strain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any part of the country. 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969. 

791 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
• i m P H I — i ii M •ibTIMM j mi •!• mwifc..-.tgw, 
irar 
c t 
gar/wr. • jr • - - I " mirm-r, m* mi WJAI. 
• . . i. 
The condition and management of Applicant and the banks are satisfactory} 
and their prospects are favorable. 
The present holding company structure is adequate for present 
operations, but does not lend itself to expansion of the system. The 
proposed form of organization would be beneficial in this respect, and, 
in addition, because of the broader market which would likely exist 
for Applicant's shares as compared with that which exists for shares of 
First Trust and First Stock Yards, would facilitate the raising of 
additional capital, as needed, by these banks. 
Considerations regarding the banking factors lend some weight 
in support of the proposal. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
The convenience and needs of the communities served by the banks 
that would constitute Applicant's system would not be materially affected 
by 
consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the areas involved are consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
March 13, 1970. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The First National Bank in 
St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(!2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a))f an application by Charter Bankshares Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The First National Bank in St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no objection to approval of 
t h e application. 
792 
Item No. 10 
3/12/70 
SYSTEM 

733 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9105), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. The Board has also considered testimony re-
ceived in the course of a public oral presentation on this application 
conducted before the Board on February 17, 1970. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is ex-
tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Chairman Burns did not participate in the decision 
on this application. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

I 
794 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of The Harbor City National 
fiank of Eau Gallie, Eau Gallie, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
iation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter Banlcshares 
Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
o f the voting shares of The Harbor City National Bank of Eau Gallie, 
E a u Gallie, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his views 
Hw J 
recommendation. The Comptroller offered no objection to approval of 
t h e application. 

735 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9104), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. The Board has also considered testimony re-
ceived in the course of a public oral presentation on this application 
conducted before the Board on February 17, 1970. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is ex-
tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Chairman Burns did not participate in the decision 
on this application. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

I 
796 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 51 per cent or more 
the voting shares of First National Beach Bank, 
Jacksonville Beach, Jacksonville Beach, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter Bankshares 
Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 51 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of First National Beach Bank, Jacksonville Beach, 
Jacksonville Beach, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation. The Comptroller offered no objection to approval of 
t h e application. 

797 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 7, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9105), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. The Board has also considered testimony re-
ceived in the course of a public oral presentation on this application 
conducted before the Board on February 17, 1970. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
fche thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is ex-
tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of March 1970. 
t 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Chairman Burns did not participate in the decision 
on this application. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. ICenyon, 
(SEAL) 
Deputy Secretary. 

7.98 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK IN ST. PETERSBURG, ST. PETERSBURG; 
THE HARBOR CITY NATIONAL BANK OF EAU GALLIE, EAU GALLIE;' 
FIRST NATIONAL BEACH BANK, JACKSONVILLE BEACH, JACKSONVILLE BEACH; 
ALL IN THE STATE OF FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Charter Banlcshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida ("Charter 
Bankshares") or ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
H°lding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First 
National Bank in St. Petersburg ("St. Petersburg Bank") and of The Harbor 
C l ty National Bank of Eau Gallie ("Eau Gallie Bank"), and at least 51 per 
cent of the outstanding voting shares of First National Beach Bank, 
Jacksonville Beach ("Jacksonville Beach Bank"), all in Florida. Each of 
e applications has been separately considered and is the subject of a 
SeParate Board Order. However, since certain facts and circumstances are 
c°mmon to all three applications, this Statement contains the Board's find-
in8s and conclusions with respect to each of the applications. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As required 
b y section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
Currency of receipt of the applications and requested his views and 

739 
-2-
recommendations thereon. The Comptroller's reply was directed solely to 
the competitive factors involved and concluded that approval of the appli-
cations would not adversely affect banking competition. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Boaro shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
°f the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anti-
competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each case 
the Board is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks con-
cerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Discussion. - In the course of the Board's study of Charter 
Bankshares1 three applications, there arose from several statements by 
applicant contained both in the applications and in communications respond-
ing to Board requests for additional information relevant to the proposals, 
a question concerning the extent to which Applicant is controlled by The 
Charter Company, a Florida corporation that owns, of record, 24.6 per cent 
Charter Bankshares* voting stock, and 99 per cent of the voting shares 

800 
-11-
the Jacksonville National Bank, Jacksonville, Florida. Charter Company 
also owns or controls 24.9 per cent of the Jacksonville Beach Bank and an 
equal per cent of the voting stock of the St. Petersburg Bank. Charter 
Company has extensive nonbank investments, totaling some 23 subsidiary and 
affiliated organizations,, the general business natures of which encompass 
mortgage brokering; real estate investments, developments and holdings; 
real estate mortgage and title insurance; advisory and administrative ser-
vices for a real estate investment trust; building premises corporations; 
and the operation of a chain of service stations, tire stores, and conven-
ience foods stores comprising approximately 70 units operating in 25 cities 
six Southeastern States. 
Should it be established that Charter Company, directly or 
•J 
j , 
irectly, owns, controls, or holds with power to vote 25 per cent or more 
o f Charter Bankshares1 voting stock, or such amount of the voting stock of 
a U y o f Charter Bankshares' subsidiary banks, or controls the election of a 
majority of the directors of Charter Bankshares or any of its subsidiary banks, 
S U° h ^termination would have a decisive effect on the Board's action on these 
^Plications. and on the status of Charter Company under the Bank Holding 
Coi*Pany Act. 
An equally important question, distinct from the aforementioned 
statuh ry control issues, relates to a less patent form of control, that is, 
to thp 
possibility that decisions presumably made on behalf, and in the stated 
e s t interest, of Charter Bankshares and its subsidiary banks, are in fact 
^ade > or are subject to being made, so as to serve primarily the interests of 

gfJl 
-4-
Charter Company and its extensive nonbanking investments, with potential 
deleterious effects on Charter Bankshares' interests. Separate but re-
lated provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act, together with the Act's 
legislative history, reflect Congressional intent to effect with respect 
to registered bank holding companies a separation of bank subsidiary opera-
tions and, with limited exceptions, nonbanking interests. In view of the 
direct and important relation of these provisions to the aforementioned 
"control" issues, and to the Board's ultimate action on the applications, 
the questions bearing on the control issues will first be discussed and 
resolved. 
On February 17, 1970, the Board conducted a public oral 
Presentation relating to the above-stated issues of control, at which pro-
ceeding three witnesses testified and responded to Board inquiries. They 
were Dr. William C. Ruffin, Jr., Chairman and President of Applicant; 
Raymond K. Mason, Chairman and President of The Charter Company, 
Jacksonville, Florida; and Mr. Howard Nix, Jr., formerly President of 
Charter Bankshares. 
The entire record before the Board, including the testimony 
rendered during the February 17 proceeding, together with documentation 
submitted upon request by the Board, reasonably supports the following 
conclusions. Charter Company owns, in total, 24.6 per cent of the voting 
shares of Charter Bankshares, which is less than the 25 per cent test for 
bank holding company status set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Hr 
• Mason is the principal stockholder of Charter Company, owning approxi-
mately 30 per cent of its voting stock. The record also clearly establishes 

-5-
that, despite the minimal amount of Charter Bankshares' voting stock 
owned or controlled by Mr. Mason, he holds a substantially influential 
Position with respect to decisions affecting Applicant's operations. 
Although Applicant's chief executive officer asserted that all major de-
cisions affecting Applicant are made by him and Applicant's Board of 
directors, it was admitted by Dr. Ruffin, and conceded by Mr. Mason, that 
latter was not at all reluctant to offer advice concerning matters of 
interest to Charter Bankshares, and that the former was not reluctant to 
seek and rely upon such counsel and advice. 
The former President and Chairman of Applicant offered no 
challenge to the positions stated by the other two witnesses regarding 
Charter Company's lack of control of Applicant. Rather, he stated that he 
had no evidence to indicate such control; that to his knowledge Applicant's 
Board of Directors was not controlled by Charter Company; and that, in fact, 
the selection of Applicant's Board of Directors was made on the basis of 
recommendations from and agreement by Bankshares' officers and directors. 
In sum, the Board concludes that Charter Company's ownership 
and/or control of stock of Charter Bankshares is not of such amount or 
aature as to constitute Charter Bankshares a subsidiary of Charter Company 
Within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act. Further, while it is 
abundantly clear that Mr. Mason, Charter Company's principal stockholder, 
bas considerable influence with regard to operational and policy decisions 
affecting Charter Bankshares, many actively sought and welcomed by Charter 
Bankshares' management, no attribution to Charter Company of this influence 

803 
-11-
can be made within the context of the control provisions of the Act. 
Regarding the question of whether the Board should prevent further expansion 
Charter Bankshares' system because of the close relationship which that 
system has with Charter Company and Mr. Mason, the Board is unable to con-
clude that the manner in which Charter Company's operations are conducted 
has adversely affected Charter Bankshares' operations, growth, or service 
to its banks and the public they serve. Nor is there evidence that the 
resources of these banks have been unlawfully or unduly utilized in the 
service, or to the advantage of, Charter Company and its interests and the 
disadvantage or detriment of the banks. On the contrary, there is uncon-
troverted evidence that Charter Bankshares has, to its advantage, sought of 
and received from Charter Company financial assistance necessary to Charter 
bankshares' growth, and contributory to the sound financial condition of 
its banks. 
The Board concludes that under existing provisions of the Act, 
and giving full cognizance to the intent of Congress in enacting the pro-
visions of that Act relevant to the questions under discussion, Charter 
Cotnpany may not be deemed a bank holding company subject to the jurisdiction 
the Board, and that the relationship between Charter Company and Charter 
bankshares does not in and of itself preclude approval of these applications. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transactions. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Florida,all of which are bank holding companies, 
c 
1/ 
°ntrol 40 per cent of the deposits held by all banks in the State. 
^ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
^Pany formation and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

804 
-11-
Applicant, which is not presently among the largest banking organizations 
in the State, has three subsidiary banks which, in the aggregate, have 
deposits of $35 million. Acquisition of the three subject banks would 
increase the amount of deposits under Applicant's control to $197 million 
(1.7 per cent of the State total), and Applicant would become the eleventh 
largest banking organization in the State. 
St. Petersburg Bank ($139 million deposits) is the largest of 
12 banks in St. Petersburg, and accounts for about 23 per cent of the total 
deposits held by all banks in that area. The second largest bank in the area 
i s of a size ($130 million deposits) nearly equal to St. Petersburg Bank, 
and the third and fifth largest are subsidiaries of separate bank holding 
companies, both of which are much larger than Applicant is, or would become 
a s a result of the proposed acquisitions. It does not appear that the 
viability or competitive effectiveness of any bank in the area would be 
adversely affected by Applicant's acquisition of St. Petersburg Bank. 
Neither of the two other proposed subsidiary banks is among the 
largest in the area in which it competes. Eau Gallie Bank ($6.9 million 
deposits) ranks thirteenth in size among 17 banks located in Brevard County 
and i s the sixth largest in the market in which it competes - an 11-mile 
c°astal section of southern Brevard County; the bank is Abcut cno-
half a s large as the only other bank in Eau Gallie. Jacksonville Beach 
»auk ($15 
million deposits) is located in a beach community 20 miles east 
downtown Jacksonville. It is the twelfth largest of 23 banks in Duval 
C o u n ty, and accounts for 1,4 per cent of the total deposits held by banks 

-5-
in that area; 15 of the 20 banks, holding 77 per cent of area deposits, 
are owned by three bank holding companies. 
None of the proposed subsidiary banks is located within 150 miles 
of another, or within 350 miles of any of Applicant's present subsidiary 
banks. No significant competition exists between any of them. Further, in 
view of the distances involved and the fact that branching is prohibited by 
Florida law, it does not appear that a significant potential for future 
competition would be foreclosed. 
It is possible that the ownership by Charter Company of Jacksonville 
National Bank ($39 million deposits), coupled with its substantial financial 
interest in Applicant, would tend to inhibit competition between Jacksonville 
National and Jacksonville Beach Bank in the event of acquisition of the latter 
by Applicant. Even assuming that result, however, it does not appear that 
the effect on banking competition would be significant in view of the size of 
e two banks relative to other banks in the area, and in view of the limited 
at*ount of present competition between them. 
The Board concludes, on the basis of the record before it, that 
c°nsummation of Applicant's proposals would not result in a monopoly, or 
b e in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to 
a 
i. 
e^pt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. Neither 
d°es it appear likely that such consummation would substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
o f the country. 

806 
-11-
Financial and raanagerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks is regarded 
as reasonably satisfactory. At the present time Applicant has a rather sub-
stantial debt position incurred as a result of action taken to strengthen 
the capital position of certain of its banks. Applicant's debt retirement 
Projections appear reasonably subject to achievement, provided Applicant 
adheres to a prudent scheme of operation both for itself and its subsidiary 
banks. The likelihood of eliminating Applicant's debt would be significantly 
enhanced by the acquisitions here proposed, particularly Applicant's owner-
ship of the St. Petersburg Bank. While the capital position of one of 
Applicant's existing subsidiaries is somewhat less than desirable, in general, 
the financial condition of the banks is satisfactory. 
Management. - Applicant's management appears lacking in both depth 
and experience. The individual who was instrumental in organizing Applicant 
and v;ho served as its chief executive officer for approximately seven years 
left Applicant at raid-year 1969. The then Chairman of the Board has assumed 
the role of chief executive officer. While the record does not reflect 
adversely upon his general executive ability, Applicant's interests and those 
°f its present and proposed subsidiary banks would benefit from the addition 
executive personnel with experience in bank administration and operation, 
applicant has recently added to its Board of Directors a capable and 
experienced banker, the president of the St. Petersburg Bank. It is unlikely 
t^at this individual would remain on Applicant's Board should Applicant's 
Requisition of the St. Petersburg Bank be denied. On the other hand, the 

-11-
807 
inclusion of the St. Petersburg Bank within Applicant's system will ensure 
executive and managerial direction to Applicant that is now afforded by that 
bank, and will make available to Applicant's other banks the managerial and 
full -service banking experience found in an institution the size of the 
St. Petersburg Bank. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposals would provide Applicant 
and its banks with more experienced, and a greater depth of, management. 
The foregoing considerations relating to the several banking factors involved 
weigh somewhat in favor of approval of the applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
communities served by each of Applicant's existing banks, as well as the 
communities served, respectively, by the Eau Gallie Bank and the 
Jacksonville Beach Bank, will be affected by consummation of the proposals 
now before the Board. Each of these communities, namely, Pensacola, Gulf 
Breeze, Milton, Jacksonville Beach, and Eau Gallie (recently annexed with 
and under the name of Melbourne) has available to it the full banking ser-
vices of at least one and, in some instances, several large banking organ-
izations. Accordingly, no major banking service is presently lacking in 
any of these areas. In each of these communities, Applicant's acquisition 
°f the $139 million deposit St. Petersburg Bank will serve to provide 
Applicant for the first time with a significantly sized lead bank that 
can be principally instrumental in enabling Applicant's other banks to 
Provide expanded and more convenient banking services. Specifically, 
Applicant's smaller banks will have available, either for the first time 

-11-
808 
on a more accessible basis, trust service assistance, use of computer 
and related facilities, and funds through loan participations. 
An 
additional favorable aspect of Applicant's proposed acquisition of the 
st. Petersburg Bank is the additional potential that it offers Applicant 
in attracting experienced and capable personnel to its system, and through 
its system to its banks. This result, of initial benefit to Applicant and 
its banks, will ultimately benefit the communities served by these banks. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are consistent with, and provide some weight supporting, 
approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transactions would be in the public interest and that the applications 
should be approved. 
March 12, 1970. 

809 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I concur in the Board's action approving the applications of 
Charter Bankshares. However, in so concurring, I do not wish to sug-
gest that I am satisfied that Charter Bankshares is free of the 
dominant influence, if not actual control, of Charter Company's chief 
executive officer and principal stockholder - and thus of a potentially 
undesirable affiliation with Charter Company. On the contrary, I am 
satisfied that insofar as Charter Bankshares' operations, bank acquisi-
tion proposals, and many related plans are concerned, Mr. Mason's views, 
judgments, and decisions are given substantial, if not decisive, weight 
by Charter Bankshares' management and directors. 
I find the imposition of Mr. Mason's influence on Charter 
Bankshares, impelled as it must be by his substantial interest and 
investment in Charter Company and its affiliates and subsidiaries, to 
be contrary to the clear intent of Congress to prevent the existence 
of, or potential for, common control of banking and unrestricted non-
banking operations. 
The record before the Board does not justify, in my view, 
ascribing to Mr. Mason's activities or to the operations of Charter 
Company, any consequence clearly contrary to the interests of Charter 
Bankshares or the public. Yet, the potential for such consequences 
does exist; and the potential was as certainly the thrust of Congres-
sional concern as was the fact. However, applying existing provisions 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act to the circumstances of this case 
leaves me no justifiable alternative to concurring in the Board's 
approval action. 

-2-
810 
The Bank Holding Company Act's present provisions do not 
encompass an individual's ownership or control of bank stocks; nor 
do these provisions permit the Board, except in limited circumstances 
not here applicable, either to attribute an individual's stock holdings 
to a corporate interest having the relationship involved in these 
applications, or to attribute control of a bank or bank holding company 
to a company that may act in concert with a natural person to vote 
25 per cent or more of the voting shares of such bank or bank holding 
company. This deficiency in the law, in my judgment, is contributory 
to substantial circumvention of Congressional intent to restrict common 
control of banking and non-banking interests and operations. 
A provision of the House-passed "one bank holding company" 
bill would appear to lend considerable strength to the Board's ability 
to reach the types of indirect control evidenced with respect to 
Charter Bankshares. Despite the admitted difficulties posed by the 
formulation and enforcement of a provision of this nature, I would 
hope that a concentrated effort will be made to effect its enactment 
into law. 
March 12, 1970. 

811 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
1 
The Bank Holding Company Act was enacted "To define bank 
holding companies, control their future expansion, and require divest-
ment of their nonbanking interests." This statement of Congressional 
Purpose reflects two principles that form the basis for my dissent from 
the Board's approval of Charter Bankshares' applications. 
First, the undue exposure of bank resources to the demands of 
aonbank interests commonly owned or controlled was a clear and potential 
danger foreseen by Congress and intended to be prevented. Second, the 
Bank Holding Company Act does not require Board approval of a proposal 
as I find to be the case with respect to Charter Bankshares' appli-
cations, while "legal" control is not attributable to an applicant, the 
£act of actual control is sufficiently unclear as to warrant the exercise 
°f discretionary authority to deny the applications. 
The Board's position that the record fails to establish the 
affirmative of the control issues raised by the Board, misconceives the 
Placement of the burden of proof. The burden of establishing that the 
sPirit and clear intent of Congress is not contravened by the Charter 
c°rnpany-Raymond Mason-Charter Bankshares' relationship, is that of the 
Applicant. In my opinion, Applicant has failed to carry this burden. 
The evidence of record establishes to my satisfaction the dominant role 
that Mr. Mason holds and plays with respect to the operations of both 
Charter Company and Charter Bankshares. This domination subjects Charter 

812 
- 2 * 
Bankshares and its banks to a potentially harmful exposure for the benefit 
°f Charter Company's nonbanking interests - precisely the type of undue 
exposure that underlay enactment of the Act's divestment requirements. 
Applying to these circumstances the aforestated intent of 
Congress and the Board's discretionary authority to deny proposals which 
are not clearly in the public interest, I would deny the three applications. 
Harch 12, 1970. 

813 
Item No. II 
3/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BCiARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D, C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
C. B. Investment Corporation, 
1 
Houston, Texas, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 222 
' 
shares of The Lake Jackson Bank of 
' 
Lake Jackson, Texas, Lake Jackson, 
' 
Texas. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of C. B. Investment 
Corporation, Houston, Texas, for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of 222 of the voting shares of The Lake Jackson Bank of 
Lake Jackson, Texas, Lake Jackson, Texas. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banks of the 
State of Texas, and requested his views and recommendation. The Commis-
sioner replied that he had no objection to approval of the application. 

64 
-2-
NtJtice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 10, 1970 (35 Federal Register 2803), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
o r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
fiank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 13, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

815 
BDSKTT OK GOVERNORS 
• i h 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
C . B . 
INVESTMENT CORPORATION, HOUSTON, TEXAS, FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF THE 
LAKE JACKSON BANK OF LAKE JACKSON, TEXAS 
STATEMENT 
C. B. Investment Corporation, Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 222 
additional voting shares of The Lake Jackson Bank of Lake Jackson, Texas 
("Bank"). Applicant presently owns 8.88 per cent of the voting shares 
o f Bank. The stock to be acquired represents Applicant's proportionate 
share of a new stock offering being made by Bank. 
Views and recommendation, of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
vas given to the Commissioner of Banks of the State of Texas, and his views 
and recommendaticn were requested. The Commissioner responded that he 
had no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 

816 
-2-
roonopolisia 6k to aUdhi^ W<5 Md^ollite the bbsihess of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
B°ard finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to 
he served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Discussion. - Applicant has four subsidiary banks with total 
deposits of $44 million!/^ a n d o w n s m o r e t h a n 5 p e r c e n t j b u t l e s s 
t h a n 
Per cent, of the voting shares of four other banks. Bank, one of the 
non-subsidiaries, has deposits of $10 million. All banks involved are 
located in Texas. 
Consummation of the present proposal would enable Applicant to 
Maintain its proportionate ownership of 8.88 per cent of the voting shares 
o f Bank, despite an increase in the number of Bank's shares outstanding. 
Competition would not be affected in any way. The banking factors, as 
fchey relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank, are consistent with 
approval of the application; the only significant effect on the condition 
o f any 0f them would be that an increase in Bank's capital would to some 
Gxtent be facilitated. The proposed acquisition would have no significant 
y All banking data are as of June 30, 1969. 

8.17 
-3-
effect on the convenience or needs of areas served by Applicant's banking 
subsidiaries or by Bank. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 13, 1970. 

Item No. 
3/12/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of voting ' 
shares of the successor by merger to 
1 
The Barnitz Bank, Middletown, Ohio. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t 0 section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Banc Group 
°f Ohio. Inc., Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, 
f o r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent 
(less directors1 qualifying shares) of the voting shares of the 
Accessor by merger to The Barnitz Bank, Middletown, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
Banks of the State of Ohio and requested his views and recommen-
dation. The Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

819 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 10, 1970 (35 Federal Register 2803), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
0 r (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 13, 1970. 
Voting for this action: vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

820 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF THE 
SUCCESSOR BY MERGER TO THE BARNITZ BANK, 
MIDDLETOWN, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares 
a new State bank into which it proposes to merge The Barnitz Bank, 
Middletown, Ohio ("Bank"). The new State bank has no significance 
except as a means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be 
merged into it; the proposal is therefore treated herein as a proposal 
to acquire shares of The Barnitz Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applica-
tion was given to the Superintendent of Banks of the State of Ohio and 
bis views and recommendation were requested. The Superintendent 
recommended approval of the application. 

8 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction 
- Applicant 
controls four banks and 29 offices in the State of Ohio, with aggregate 
deposits of $469 million.^ 
It controls 2.4 per cent of the deposits 
held by all banks in the State, and is the tenth largest banking 
°rganization and the fifth largest of seven bank holding companies in 
°hio. Acquisition of Bank, which has $35,4 million in deposits, would 
have only a negligible effect on State-wide concentration. Applicant 
i' Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 30, 1969, refer 
to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect holding 
c°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

H'ZZ 
-3-
would control only 2.6 per cent of State deposits, and would become the 
State's ninth largest banking organization, and fourth largest bank 
holding company. 
Bank has three offices, all of which are located in Middletown 
(population 50,700), Butler County, Ohio. Bank is the third largest 
of seven banks in Butler County (population 228,500). Its most direct 
competitor, the County's second largest bank, is almost twice Bank's 
size (deposits $65.5 million) and is also located in Middletown. Three 
other banks are located in Hamilton, the County seat, 14 miles south-
west of Middletown; these banks are the County's largest (deposits 
$68.5 million), fourth largest (deposits $33 million) and fifth largest 
(deposits $31 million). The two smallest banks in the County, with 
deposits of $7 million and $1 million, are located 16 miles and 21 miles, 
respectively, west of Bank. Applicant plans to encourage additional 
branching by Bank; this would serve to increase competition in the area, 
without undue adverse effects on any competing bank. 
The closest office of any of Applicant's subsidiaries is 
located 87 miles northeast of Bank, and is separated by three counties. 
Neither Bank nor any of Applicant's subsidiaries derives significant 
business from any area served by the other, and, in view of the distances 
involved, and Ohio restrictions against branching across county lines, it 
does not appear that future competition is likely to develop. Consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition, therefore, would not eliminate existing 
competition or foreclose significant potential competition. 

8';3 
-4-
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area, and would not substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
generally satisfactory and their managements are considered competent. 
Prospects of the group appear favorable. 
The financial condition and present management of Bank are 
judged to be satisfactory and prospects of bank are considered favorable. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with 
approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would have no effect on customers served 
by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Although there is no evidence that significant banking needs 
of Butler County are not being served at this time, some benefits 
would accrue to the area as a result of the proposed acquisition. 
Because of industrial expansion in the Middletown area, a need has arisen 
for credit in amounts beyond Bank's ability to fulfill. Applicant's 
Proposal would facilitate the arrangement of participations with other 
subsidiaries, enabling Bank to more readily respond to these credit 
demands. Applicant also proposes to increase Bank's loan volume, with 
additional emphasis on farm and education loans. 

8?A 
-5-
Banlc presently has a small trust department. Operations of 
this department x/ould be expanded and improved with advice and 
assistance from Applicant^ largest subsidiary. These considerations 
provide some weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board*s judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 13, 1970. 

For immediate release. 
March 12, 1970. 
Item No. 13 
3/12/70 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today it has granted Maine the first State exemption under 
the Federal Truth in Lending Act, effective April 1. Maine law, which 
is substantially similar to the Federal Statute, will apply to all 
classes of credit transactions within that State, except those in which 
a Federally chartered institution--such as a Federal credit union, 
Federal savings and loan association, or national bank--is a creditor. 
Sect ion 123 of the Truth in Lending Act provides that the 
Board shall exempt from the disclosure and recission requirements of 
the Act any class of transactions within a State if the State law 
provides requirements substantially similar to those imposed by the 
Federal law, and there is adequate provision for enforcement. 
Last July 2, the Board issued as Supplement II to its Truth 
in Lending Regulation Z the rules and procedures to be followed by 
States wishing to regulate credit transactions under their own laws. 
Maine was the first State to file an application with the Board. 
Pending applications have been received from Massachusetts, Connecticut, 
Virginia, Oklahoma and Utah. 
The Board today also amended Regulation Z to preserve the 
ability of consumers to file civil actions in either Federal or State 
courts after exemptions from the Federal Statute are granted by the 
Board. 

-2-
826 
Under the amendment, criminal and administrative responsibility 
with respect to exempted transactions will be turned over to a State but 
the consumer will retain his ability to seek redress for disclosure 
violations in either Federal or State court, and to avail himself of 
Federal or State rules of court procedure. 
The Federal statute provides these civil penalties for viola-
tions: twice the amount of the finance charge (but in no case less than 
$100 or more than $1,000), court costs and reasonable attorney's fees. 
Attached are copies of the amendment and Supplement III to 
Regulation Z which lists exempted States. 
-0-

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Exemption of Certain State Regulated Transactions; 
Retention of Access to Federal Civil Remedies 
1. Effective March 12, 1970, 5 226.12 is amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 226.12 Exemption of certain State regulated transactions. 
( a ) Exemption for State regulated transactions. In accordance 
with the provisions of Supplement II to Regulation Z ($ 226.12 - Supple-
ment), any State may make application to the Board for exemption of any 
class of transactions within that State from the requirements of Chapter 2 
of the Act and the corresponding provisions of this part: Provided, That 
(1) Under the law of that State, that class of transactions 
is subject to requirements substantially similar to those imposed under 
Chapter 2 of the Act and the corresponding provisions of this part; and 
(2) There is adequate provision for enforcement. 
(b) Procedures and criteria. The procedures and criteria 
under which 
any State may apply for the determination provided for in 
paragraph (a) of this section are set forth in Supplement II to Regula-
tion Z ({5 226.12 - Supplement). 
(c) Civil liability. In order to assure that the concurrent 
jurisdiction of Federal and State courts created in section 130(e) of 

828 
the Act shall continue to have substantive provisions to which such 
jurisdiction shall apply, and generally to aid in implementing the 
Act with respect to any class of transactions exempted pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of thisNsection, the Board pursuant to sections 105 
and 123 hereby prescribes that: 
(1) No such exemption shall be deemed to extend to the 
civil liability provisions of sections 130 end 131; and 
(2) After an exemption has been granted, the disclosure 
requirements of the applicable State law shall constitute the dis-
closure requirements of this Act, except to the extent that such 
State law imposes disclosure requirements not imposed by this Act. 
Information required under such State law with the exception of 
those provisions which impose disclosure requirements not imposed 
by this Act shall, accordingly, constitute the "information 
required under this Chapter" (Chapter 2 of the Act) for the purpose 
of section 130(a). 
( d ) Exemptions granted. Exemptions granted by the Board 
to particular classes of credit transactions within specified States 
are set forth in Supplement III to Regulation Z. 
2. Effective March 12, 1970, Supplement III to Part 226 
is added, as set forth below. 
3a. This amendment and Supplement III are promulgated 
pursuant to 5 105 of the Truth in Lending Act (15 U.S.C. 1604). 

b. As indicated in the notice of proposed rule making 
(34 Fed. Reg. 20065), the purpose of the addition of paragraph (c) 
to § 226.12 is designed to preserve the right of a consumer to 
maintain an action under 53 130 and 131 of the Act (15 U.S.C. 1640-41) 
for violations of disclosure provisions after the Board of Governors 
has exempted the class of transactions as being subject to State 
regulation. After an exemption has been granted, criminal and 
administrative responsibility would be under State control with 
respect to such exempted transactions. 
c. Sections 130 and 131 provide civil remedies for 
violations of the disclosure requirements of the Act. After an 
exemption based upon State law has been granted, that law will pro-
vide the applicable, disclosure requirements, except to the extent 
that it imposes disclosure requirements not imposed by the Act, and 
violations of such requirements would be actionable under §§ 130 
and 131. The customer would, therefore, retain the right granted 
by subsection 
(e) of 5 130 to seek redress for violations of such 
State law in either Federal or State court and to avail himself of 
the respective State or Federal court procedural rules. 
d. Paragraph (b) of S 226.12 is amended to reflect the 
fact that Supplement II ($ 226.12 - Supplement) has been published, 
/ 
and to eliminate an obsolete reference to the date of the proposed 
publication. 

830 
-11-
e. After consideration of ail relevant matter by interested 
persons, a change was made in the proposed addition of paragraph (c) 
to § 226.12 to clarify the intent of the Board that any disclosure 
requirements which may be imposed by State lav; and which are in 
add it ion to the disclosures required under the Federal Act and of 
Regulation Z would not be the subject of an action in Federal court. 
f. Paragraph (d) is added to § 226.12 to provide that 
any exemption granted by the Board pursuant to 5 123 of the Act to 
any class of credit transactions within any State will be listed in 
Supplement III to Regulation Z. 
g. With the exception of the addition of paragraph (d) 
to § 226.12, the requirements of section 553 of Title 5, United 
States Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and 
deferred effective date were followed in connection with these 
amendments. In the Board's view, the addition of paragraph (d) to 
5 226.12 is essentially procedural in nature. Accordingly, the Board 
concluded that the notice and public participation contemplated by 
section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, was unnecessary with 
respect to such change. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 12, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

831 
t .v* 
-5-
SUPPLEMENT III TO REGULATION Z 
STATE EXEMPTIONS GS&iTEEfc -
PURSUANT TO SECTION 226.12 
( a) Exemptions and limitations. The provisions of this 
supplement are issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System pursuant to sections 105 and 123 of the Truth in Lending Act 
(Title I of the Consumer Credit Protection Act, Public Law 90-321; 
82 Stat. 146 et seq.). The purpose of this supplement is to set 
forth the exemptions granted by the Board to particular classes of 
credit transactions within any State which has applied for exemptions 
pursuant to the provisions of Supplement II to Regulation Z. It also 
sets forth the. conditions necessary for the. retention of such exemptions. 
Pursuant to the criteria set forth in paragraph (c) of Supplement II to 
Regulation Z, the Board has determined that the particular classes of 
credit transactions within the States specified in the following para-
graphs of this supplement are subject to requirements substantially 
similar to those provided in Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act 
and that there is adequate provision for enforcement of such require-
ments. The exemptions granted herein shall continue in effect provided 
that: 
(1) Such State law, including regulations and interpretations 
thereof, upon which the Board's determination under paragraph (c) of 
Supplement II is based is amended or revised as may be necessary in 
order to preserve substantial similarity with the Truth in Lending 
Act and Regulation Z as they may be amended, and with interpretations 
thereof which may be issued from time to time by the Board; 

82 
-11-
(2) Administrative and other provisions for enforcement 
of such State law, including regulations and interpretations thereof, 
applicable to the exempt classes of credit transactions continue to 
be adequate; and 
* 
(3) Cooperation and appropriate liaison with the Board 
as specified in paragraph (e) of Supplement II are maintained to 
assure that the purposes of the Truth in Lending Act are carried 
out uniformly. 
(k) Maine. Except as provided in 5 226.12(c), the following 
classes of credit transactions within the State of Maine except for 
those transactions in which a federally chartered institution is a 
creditor are hereby granted an exemption from the requirements of 
Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act effective April 1, 1970: 
(1) Transactions under open end consumer credit plans 
which are subject to the requirements of 5 12 7 of the Truth in Lending 
Act; 
(2) Consumer credit sales transactions not under open end 
credit plans which are subject to the requirements of § 128 of the. 
Ac t; and 
(3) Consumer loan and other nonsale credit transactions 
not under open end credit plans which are subject to the requirements 
of § 129 of the Act. 

833 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 14 
3/12/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ACCRESR UrriCIAL L'URRfapaNDtNnE 
TCl THE UUARD 
March 17, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
Mr. Willis J. Winn, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
The Board of Governors has confirmed the action taken 
by your Board of Directors for the payment of salary to David 
Eastburn as President and to David Meintcoff as First Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia at the 
rates of $45,000 and $37,500 per annum, respectively, effective 
retroactive to March 1, 1970. The rates approved are those 
fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of 
March 6. 
The Board has noted the circumstances regarding the 
salaries of James Vergari and David Melnicoff and will review 
this relationship at the end of this year in light of recommen-
dations made at that time by your Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
