Minutes for 
November 18, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: -Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
4 
S f e i r t 
, V ' i 1 ' 
<~>f 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4007 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 18, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, and Lipkowitz of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Schweitzer and Miss Wickstead 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

4008 
11/18/68 
- 2 -
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest- 
1 
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the acquisition of 51 per cent of 
the stock of a new warehousing company to be 
formed in the Colon Free Zone, Republic of 
Panama. 
Letter to International Banking Corporation, 
2 
New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of additional shares of the stock 
of New York London Trustee Company, Limited, 
London, England. 
Letter to Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 
3 
Washington, D. C., requesting an audit of 
the Board's books and accounts for the year 
1968. 
With respect to Item No. 1, Governor Robertson expressed 
reservations about the proposal of the First National City group 
to go into the warehousing business. He felt that this represented 
another extension of a dangerous trend on the part of banks, through 
subsidiaries, to go into overseas activities that were not clearly 
banking or financing. He was willing to approve the request in this 
instance only because Chase Manhattan already had acquired indirect 
control of a warehouse company in Panama under an arrangement to which 
the Board had granted consent. 
In connection with Item No. 3, Governor Sherrill recalled that 
last year when the Board retained the Lybrand firm to audit its books 
there was an indictment pending against certain partners of the firm. 
While a verdict had since been rendered in the case that was then 

4003 
11/18/68 
- 3 -
pending, he noted that it did not affect the firm generally and that 
it would be difficult to name any leading firm of certified public 
accountants that had not been involved in some kind of litigation in 
recent years. Other Board members agreed that the circumstances 
related by Governor Sherrill were not such as to warrant discontinuing 
the arrangement with Lybrand to audit the Board's accounts. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Peoples' Bank, Mount Jack-
son, Virginia, with Massanutten Bank of Shenandoah Valley, National 
Association, Strasburg, Virginia, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as 
follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Massanutten 
Bank of Shenandoah Valley, National Association, Stras-
burg, Virginia, and Peoples' Bank, Mount Jackson, Virginia, 
both subsidiaries of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, 
Arlington, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Southern National Bank of North Carolina, Lumberton, North 
Carolina, with Southern City National Bank, Lumberton, North Carolina, 
w as approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, with 

4010 
11/18/68 
- 4 -
The Second National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of State Bank of Greenleaf, Greenleaf, Wisconsin, with Wayside 
State Bank, Wayside, Wisconsin, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
> 
merger of Simmons First National Bank of Pine Bluff, Pine Bluff, 
Arkansas, with Simmons National Bank of Pine Bluff, Pine Bluff, 
Arkansas, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the 
proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Director appointments. It was agreed to ascertain through 
the Chairmen of the respective Federal Reserve Banks whether the 
following persons would accept appointment if tendered as branch 
directors for the terms indicated, with the understanding that if 
it were found that they would accept, the appointments would be made: 

11/18/68 
-5-
James M. Jarvis, Chairman of Jarvis, Downing & Emch 
Clarksburg, West Virginia, as a director of the 
Baltimore Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond for the three-year term beginning January 1 
1969. (It was understood that if Mr. Jarvis was unable 
to serve, inquiry would be made as to whether H H 
Esbenshade, Jr., President, Tri-State Roofing Company 
and Industrial Wholesale Company, Parkersburg, West 
Virginia, would accept the appointment if tendered.) 
Peter Bruce Clark, President and Publisher of the 
Detroit News, Detroit, Michigan, as a director of 
the Detroit Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago for the three-year term beginning January 1, 
1969. (It was understood that if Mr. Clark was 
unable to serve, inquiry would be made as to whether 
Frederick B. Hunt, Vice President and General Manager 
of Michigan Bell Telephone Company, Detroit, Michigan, 
would accept the appointment if tendered.) 
A1 Pollard, President, Brooks-Pollard Company, Little 
Rock, Arkansas, as a director of the Little Rock Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1969. 
Ronald E. Reitmeier, President, Catalysts and Chemicals 
Inc., Louisville, Kentucky, as a director of the Louis-' 
vilie Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
for the three-year term beginning January 1, 1969. 
John Greer Beam, President, Thomas Industries, Inc., 
Louisville, Kentucky, to succeed Lisle Baker,'Jr.' 
who had submitted his resignation effective the end 
of this year, as a director of the Louisville Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, effective 
January I, 1969, for the unexpired portion of the 
term ending December 31, 1969. 
Secretary's Note: It having been 
ascertained that acceptances would 
be forthcoming, appointment telegrams 
were sent to Messrs. Jarvis, Pollard, 
Reitmeier, and Beam on November 22 and 
to Mr. Clark on December 3, 1968, with 
the understanding that public announce-
ment of the appointments would be made 
near the end of the year in accordance 
with the usual practice. 

4012 
11/18/68 
- 6 -
Leland D. Pratt, Executive Vice President, Kelco 
Company, San Diego, California, to succeed Dr. 
Arthur G. Coons, who died July 26, 1968, as a 
director of the Los Angeles Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco for the unexpired 
portion of the term ending December 31, 1969. 
Secretary's Note: It having been 
ascertained that an acceptance would 
be forthcoming, an appointment tele-
gram was sent to Mr. Pratt on Novem-
ber 22, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

40 
ni3 
f 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/18/68 
ADDRES5 OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 18, 1968 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letters of 
July 26, 1968, August 13, 1968, and September 6, 1968, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 51 
per cent of the capital stock of a new warehousing company to be formed 
in the Colon Free Zone, Republic of Panama, at a cost of approximately 
$125,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that the company 
restrict its activities to the warehousing of goods in Panama and that 
its operations are and remain an integral part of the operations of the 
branches of First National City Bank in Panama and that the great ma-
jority of goods to be stored in the warehouse will be financed in one 
form or another by those branches. Should there be any alteration in 
the operations of the proposed company from those set forth in your 
letters, the Board should be advised immediately through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines estab-
lished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they 
apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, 
First National City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and First 
National City Bank (International), and that du^ consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

H 
Q 
4014 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/18/68 
<f/ 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 18, 1968 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 9, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold an additional 62,500 shares of the 
capital stock of New York London Trustee Company, Limited, London, 
England, at a cost of approximately $60,000, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the same condi-
tions set forth in its letter of May 21, 1964. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank, First National City Over-
seas Investment Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4015 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
11/18/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 18, 1968 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery 
1100 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 
20036 
Gentlemen: 
It is requested that your firm undertake, as promptly 
after January 1, 1969 as is convenient, an audit of the books 
and accounts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System for the year 1968. 
No restrictions have been or will be placed by the 
Board upon your firm as to the scope of the audit or the manner 
in which it is to be conducted, and you will make the audit as 
extensive and in such manner as appears to you to be desirable 
in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. Com-
pensation will be on the basis of the fee customarily charged 
by your firm for audit work of this type. 
Very truly yours, 
^ Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
