MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 27, 1970 

J ^ tf 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 27, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
- ' 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
1/ 
Mrs. Byrn, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The usual weekly review of economic and financial developments 
was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies 
°f the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the purpose of the 
weekly review then left the room and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
hi nt:: ' r II'iiA • -ii M :. . • . • m ,, , 
: • . • . > . • • • 
» •. 
Jy 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4/27/70 
-2-
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Presidential Commission. Governor Robertson referred to a 
communication that had been received from CharIs E. Walker, Under 
Secretary of the Treasury, inquiring whether the Board would make a 
contribution toward the expenses of the Presidential Commission on 
Financial Structure and Regulation. Governor Robertson expressed the 
view that a decision should be deferred until Chairman Burns had 
returned and read an interim reply that he proposed to send to Under 
Secretary Walker. 
There was general agreement that a decision should be with-
held until the Chairman and other members of the Board were present. 
A view was presented that contributions to the Commission in the form 
°f staff time would be more appropriate than financial contributions, 
and the staff was requested to prepare materials that might be help-
ful to the Board in its consideration of the matter. 

Jiytrf < 
4/27/70 
-3-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Richmond, Atlanta, 
and San Francisco on April 16, by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
on April 21, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleve-
land, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on 
April 23, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking applications. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to Citizens and Southern International Corporation, Atlanta, 
Georgia, granting its request for permission to borrow up to $5,000,000 
from its parent bank on the basis of notes maturing in less than one 
year, but renewable, and its request for permission to borrow from 
others up to $5,000,000 for periods of either less than or more than 
°ne year. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously letters to National Bank of 
Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, 
New York, New York, and Security Pacific International Bank, New York, 
New York, granting their request for permission for their affiliate, 
Western American Bank Limited, London, England, to acquire and hold, 
i n connection with underwriting operations, equity securities (includ-
ing rights to acquire equity securities) in excess of the investments 
Permitted under the general consent provisions of Regulation K, 

t * 
J.K* 
* 
4/27/70 
-4-
Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the 
Federal Reserve Act. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 2-4, 
respectively. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Manufacturers 
Hanover International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, grant-
ing its request for suspension of the provisions of sections 211.9(b) 
and (c) of Regulation K insofar as they related to the underwriting 
activities of its subsidiary, Manufacturers Hanover Limited, London, 
England. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
At the request of Governor Brimmer, who advised that certain 
further staff work on the matter was in process, the Board deferred 
action on an application by Bankers International Corporation, New 
York, New York, to acquire shares of Bankers Trust A.G., to be estab-
lished in Zurich, Switzerland. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board approved unanimously 
the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Suburban Trust Company, Hyattsville, Maryland, with National City Bank 
Baltimore, Baltimore, Maryland. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little existing competition between 
Suburban Trust Company, Hyattsville, and National 
City Bank of Baltimore, although there is potential 
for increased competition through de novo branching. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would 
represent the entry of the fourth largest bank in 
the State into Baltimore, and competition for the 

f ' K 
' 
Jk .Kf ,f u 
4/27/70 
-5-
large Baltimore headquartered banks might be inten-
sified. The overall effect of the proposed merger 
would be slightly adverse. 
U. N. Bancshares. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's action on April 21, 1970, 
approving the application of U. N. Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, 
Missouri, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of the 
shares of The Union National Bank of Springfield, Springfield, 
Missouri, and Springfield National Bank, also of Springfield. 
Copies 
of the order and statement are attached under Item No. 6. 
Merrill Bankshares. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's action on March 26, 1970, 
approving the application of Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine, 
to acquire the shares of the successor by merger to Federal Trust Com-
pany, Waterville, Maine. Copies of the order and statement are 
attached under Item No. 7, along with the dissenting statement of 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
In this connection, the Board noted the receipt of a letter in 
which the Department of Justice concluded that the acquisition would 
have an adverse effect on competition. The Board also noted the 
rebuttal filed by the applicant, together with additional information 
on developments in the matter set forth in a memorandum from the staff 
dated April 24, 1970. 
FOMC policy record entry. With a memorandum dated April 17, 
1970, Mr. Holland had transmitted a draft of policy record entry 

M # 
J 
t t 
4727/70 
-6-
covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on 
February 10, 1970. The draft took account of comments received from 
Committee members following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
In a memorandum dated April 24, Mr. Broida noted that Governor 
Brimmer had indicated that in his judgment the changes from the pre-
liminary draft were sufficiently extensive to warrant review by the 
Board. Also, Governor Mitchell had indicated that he would prefer 
somewhat different and less extensive revisions in one part of the 
preliminary draft, as shown in an attachment to the memorandum. 
The matter was discussed and general agreement was expressed 
with the formulation preferred by Governor Mitchell, although with 
certain further modifications. 
These changes having been agreed upon, the entry was approved 
unanimously for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1970, with 
the understanding that the entry would be distributed to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents primarily for information but with an indication of 
the date by which any further comments should be received and that 
the entry would be released to the press about May 11, 1970, after 
final review by the Board. 
Proposed State legislation. 
The Department of Justice had 
Proposed that the States reexamine and consider revisions of existing 
State legislation, particularly branching and holding company legis-
lation, that affected the structure of banking markets. The Depart-
ment believed that in many cases State laws were "unnecessarily 

J.5J 78 
4/27/70 
-7-
restrictive and detrimental to the State's interest in promoting 
banking competition." The Board's views had been requested by the 
Bureau of the Budget. 
The controversial nature of the proposed legislation was noted 
by the Board, and Governor Robertson suggested that the draft of reply 
to the Budget Bureau, submitted with a memorandum from the Banking 
Markets Section dated April 20, 1970, be shortened so as to state 
simply that the Board saw no reason why the proposal of the Justice 
Department should not be submitted for review to the Council of State 
Governments. 
There was general agreement with that suggestion, and unani-
mous approval was given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget in the 
form attached as Item No. 8. 
Field survey. In a memorandum dated April 21, 1970, Mr. Partee 
recommended that the Board request another informal Federal Reserve 
Bank survey of current and prospective mortgage activity at represen-
tative commercial banks, mortgage companies, savings banks, and life 
insurance companies, to be conducted in early May. A proposed ques-
tionnaire, submitted with the memorandum, would also be used by the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board in surveying selected savings and loan 
associations. Results of the survey would be shared with other inter-
ested Government agencies. 
Subject to the understanding that the proposal would be cleared 
with Governor Maisel if possible, unanimous approval was given to the 

1.27 9 
4/27/70 
-8-
conducting of the survey. 
(Note: A copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to the Federal -Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 9.) 
Computer proposal. 
In a memorandum to Governor Sherrill dated 
April 17, 1970, the staff Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Computers 
discussed plans of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to upgrade 
the Bank's research computer capabilities. The memorandum summarized 
the Bank's plans, outlined the Committee's observations, and presented 
the Committee's recommendations. Governor Sherrill had requested that 
the matter be presented to the Board for consideration. 
Aft er discussion, the Committee's recommendations were 
endorsed, for transmittal to the Reserve Bank for its consideration. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 10. 
Automation training. 
In a memorandum dated April 21, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the Board 
authorize retention of the accounting firm of Peat, Marwick, Mitchell 
& Co. for the purpose of surveying the Federal Reserve Bank examina-
tion departments to determine their requirements in training examiners 
in electronic data processing. The firm would also submit to the 
Board a plan for a comprehensive training program designed to fulfill 
those requirements. The cost of the survey, which would be borne by 
the Board, was estimated at $12,000, and action on any recommended 
training program would be taken only with the approval of the Board. 
The recommendation of the Division was approved unanimously. 

1.280 
4/27/70 
-9-
Outside computer facilities. As recommended by Governor 
Sherrill in a memorandum dated April 14, 1970, the Board authorized 
the expenditure of an additional amount of up to $10,000 (for a total 
of $20,000) for the rental of outside computer facilities for the use 
of the Special Studies Section of the Division of Research and Statis-
tics, with the understanding that the Section would continue to 
restrict the use of such funds to special cases. The Board also 
approved any resulting overexpenditure in the pertinent budget account 
of the Research Division. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

I 
i§i # 
B O A R D n r 
G O V E R N • R S 
• P T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
4/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
D T K I C I A L 
N D R R E S P O N U E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 27, 1970 
Citizens and Southern 
International Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 4899, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30302 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of March 13, 1970, the Board of Governors grants approval for your 
Corporation to issue and have outstanding, in accordance with Sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.4 of Regula-
tion K, promissory notes with maturities in excess of one year, up 
to a total of $5,000,000, provided such notes are issued within 
five years from the date of this letter. 
You also requested the Board's approval to issue and 
have outstanding promissory notes with maturities of less than one 
year, up to a total of $5,000,000, to be issued to The Citizens and 
Southern National Bank of Georgia, which may be renewed and con-
sequently represent debts outstanding for a period in excess of one 
year. The Board also grants its consent to this request, provided 
suc.h notes are issued within five years from the date of this letter. 
this connection, however, it is presumed that in any borrowings 
from The Citizens and Southern National Bank of Georgia due regard 
will be given to the limitations in Section 25(a) on the aggregate 
amount a national bank may invest in Edge Corporations, and that 
any such borrowings will not be of a type or on a basis such as to 
cause those limitations to be exceeded. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

ox: ••<•;' 
: 
B O A R D D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
4/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C N R H C S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 27, 1970 
National Bank of Detroit, 
Woodward at Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 
48232 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 27, 1969, re-
questing consent for your affiliate, Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAB"), London, England, to acquire and hold, in connec-
tion with underwriting operations, equity securities (including 
rights to acquire equity securities) in excess of the investment 
permitted under the general consent provisions of Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your request and especially 
the relationship between the possible acquisitions of certain 
stocks as a result of WAB1s underwriting activities and the statu-
tory prohibition on the purchase and holding of stock of a corpora-
tion "engaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, 
wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States" or "trans-
acting any business in the United States except such as in the 
judgment of the Board . . . may be incidental to its international 
or foreign business . . .." It was the judgment of the Board that 
in a foreign country where such transactions are usual in connec-
tion with the business of banking or other financial operations, 
and provided such stocks were acquired for underwriting or dealing 
but not. as investments, and were not held for an unreasonable time, 
such acquisitions would not be inconsistent with the quoted statu-
tory prohibition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludcd that it would be per-
missible for WAB under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer 
and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
I n ^ c e s s of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
company. 

1283 
National Bank of Detroit 
-2-
Stocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing iri securities need not be reported in accordance with 
Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be reported 
as a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any 
Call Report of Condition or in any other information regarding WAB 
required by the Board. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
a result of underwriting operations or in connection with maintaining 
a dealer's inventory. 
All other acquisitions of stock by WAB, for 
portfolio investment purposes or otherwise, are subject to the pro-
visions of Section 211.8 of Regulation IC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1.284 
Item No. 3 
4/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T U 
T H E 
N O A R D 
April 27, 1970 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 31, 1969, re-
questing consent for your affiliate, Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAS"), London, England, to acquire and hold, in connec-
tion with underwriting operations, equity securities (including 
rights to acquire equity securities) in excess of the investment 
permitted under the general consent provisions of Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your request and especially 
the relationship between the possible acquisitions of certain 
stocks as a result of WAB's underwriting activities and the statu-
tory prohibition on the purchase and holding of stock of a corpora-
tion "engaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, 
wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States" or "trans-
acting any business in the United States except such as in the 
judgment of the Board . . . may be incidental to its international 
°r foreign business . . .." It was the judgment of the Board that 
in a foreign country where such transactions are usual in connec-
tion with the business of banking or other financial operations, 
and provided such stocks were acquired for underwriting or dealing 
but not as investments, and were not held for an unreasonable time, 
such acquisitions would not be inconsistent with the quoted statu-
tory prohibition. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be per-
missible for WAB under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer 
and underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
the preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
l n excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
c°mpany. 

1 2 8 5 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
-2-
Stocks acquired in connection with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with 
Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be reported 
as a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any 
Call Report of Condition or in any other information regarding WAB 
required by the Board. 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
a result of underwriting operations or in connection with maintaining 
a dealer'?, inventory. 
All other acquisitions of stock by WAB, for 
portfolio investment purposes or otherwise, are subject to the pro-
visions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth. A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

J 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/27/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D F T I C I A L 
C D R K E S P D N O E N C E 
T D 
THE; 
B O A R D 
April 27, 1970 
Security Pacific International Bank, 
£70 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 28, 1969, re-
questing consent for your affiliate, Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited ("WAB"), London, England, to acquire and hold, in connec-
tion with underwriting operations, equity securities (including 
rights to acquire equity securities) in excess of the investment 
permitted under the general consent provisions of Regulation K. 
The Board has considered your request and especially 
the relationship between the possible acquisitions of certain 
stocks as a result of WAB's underwriting activities and the statu-
tory prohibition on the purchase and holding of stock of a corpora-
tion "engaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, 
wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States" or "trans-
acting any business in the United States except such as in the 
judgment of the Board . . . may be incidental to its international 
° r foreign business . . .." It was the judgment of the Board that 
a foreign country where such transactions are usual in connec-
tion with the business of banking or other financial operations, 
and provided such stocks were acquired for underwriting or dealing 
but noL- a s investments, and were not held for an unreasonable time, 
such acquisitions would not be inconsistent with the quoted statu-
tory prohibition. 
Accordingly, the Board concluded that it would be per-
missible for WAB under the aforementioned condition to act as dealer 
underwriter of stocks (including rights to acquire stocks), in-
cluding shares of issuers engaged in the types of business cited in 
preceding paragraph, so long as stocks so acquired were disposed 
within a reasonable length of time and provided that the specific 
Consent of the Board be obtained for any acquisitions of stock of 
individual issuers, not covered in the case of underwriting opera-
tions by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers, 
X n excess of $500,000 or 25 per cent of the voting shares of any 
c-ornpany. 

I 
1 2 8 7 
Security Pacific 
International Bank 
-2-
« - •, • 
... )I IW !•.. 
Stocks acquired in conncction with underwriting and 
dealing in securities need not be reported in accordance with 
Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to be reported 
as a separate class (together with date of acquisition) in any 
Call Report of Condition or in any other information regarding WAB 
required by the Board. 
i 
The foregoing applies only to acquisitions of stocks as 
a result of underwriting operations or in connection with maintaining 
a dealer's inventory. 
All other acquisitions of stock by WAB, for 
portfolio investment purposes or otherwise, are subject to the pro-
visions of Section 211.8 of Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
• 

1.298 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N D R S 
D F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
4/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
April 27, 1970, 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, 
350 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
"10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of August 7, 1969, and 
the Board's letter of December 4, 1968, which granted consent for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold up to 80 per cent of the 
shares of Manufacturers Hanover Limited, London, England. 
As requested in your letter, the Board, subject to con-
tinuing observation and review, has suspended, until further 
notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the second paragraph 
of its letter of December 4, 1968, so far as they relate to re-
strictions set forth in Section 211.9(b) and (c) of Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1289 
Item No. 6 
4/27/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
•X 
1 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
u« N. BANCSHARES, INC., 
Springfield, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f up to 100 per cent of the voting 
shares of The Union National Bank of 
Springfield, and of Springfield National 
Bank, both in Springfield, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
X842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by U. N. Bancshares, Inc., 
Springfield, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action 
^hereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Union 
National Bank of Springfield 
and Springfield National Bank, both in 
Springfield, Missouri. 

As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller did not 
object to approval of the proposed transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 11, 1970 (35 Federal Register 4351), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Boardtor by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. 
Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 27, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1.291 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
U. N. BANCSHARES, INC., SPRINGFIELD, MISSOURI, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
U. N. Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of up to 
100 per cent of the voting shares of The Union National Bank of 
Springfield (' Union Bank"), and Springfield National Bank ("Springfield 
Bank"), both in Springfield, Missouri. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
requested his views and recommendation. 
The Comptroller did not 
object to approval of the proposed transaction. 
Statutory considerations. 
Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy-to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

acquisition, the effect of which, in anysection of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Missouri control 39 per cent of 
1/ 
the deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. 
Upon con-
summation of its proposal, Applicant's two subsidiary banks would 
hold aggregate deposits of about $90 million, representing less than 
1 per cent of the deposits in the State. 
It would not rank among the 
10 largest banking organizations in the State.. 
Applicant's proposed lead bank is The Union National Bank 
Springfield, Springfield, Missouri, the largest bank in Greene 
County, with $89.6 million deposits, representing 35 per cent of the 
deposits in the county. Union Bank's share of deposits in the Greene 
County market has declined from 41 per cent in 1965. The bank faces 
i/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and include all bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
t o date. 

1.2 
substantial competition from other banks located in Springfield (the 
second largest bank, a subsidiary of the State's largest bank holding 
company, controls 26 per cent of the deposits in the market; the third, 
fifth, and seventh largest banks, which are members of a family-owned 
chain, control 21 per cent) and from four other banks in the Greene 
County market which are outside of Springfield. 
The other proposed subsidiary, Springfield National Bank, is 
a newly chartered bank (opened for business April 8, 1970) also located 
in Springfield, 5.4 miles southeast of the main office of Union Bank. 
Springfield Bank, which was organized principally by directors of 
Union Bank, serves an area wholly within the area served by Union Bank. 
However, because of the nature of the affiliation which exists between 
the 
two banks, they are not competitive alternatives. 
In addition to 
the fact that over 65 per cent of the shares of both banks are com-
monly owned, all of the directors of Springfield Bank are directors 
°f Union 
Bank. 
In view of the nature and origins of the relationship 
between the two banks, a nd the dependence of Springfield Bank on Union 
Sank for management strength, it does not appear that meaningful existing 
competition will be eliminated, or potential competition foreclosed, 
by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize-

1 2 9 4 
-4-
the business of banking in any part of the United States and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend tr create a 
monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities. The financial condition of Applicant and its two pro-
Posed subsidiaries is satisfactory, their management is competent, 
ar*d their prospects (which in the case of Applicant are dependent 
uP°n tho se of its proposed subsidiaries) appear favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are con-
8i-stent' with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities Involved. -
sPringfield (population 121,000), the third largest city in the State 
a n d the seat of Greene County, Missouri, is located in the southwest 
Part of the State, about 150 miles southeast of Kansas City and 
miles southwest of St. Louis. Springfield is located in the 
tieart of the Ozarks" and is a tourist center as well as the hub 
an important industrial area. 
Applicant states that approval of its proposal would result 
advantages, primarily to customers of Springfield Bank, in the 
nature of trust services, larger loan capability, and computer 
8Grvice. 
Although it appears that the community's needs for banking 
Services are being adequately met, and that, to a large extent, the 
8ervices mentioned by Applicant could be provided within the existing 
8ffiliate relationship, consummation of the proposal would facilitate 
C°°Peration between the banks which would benefit the public. 

1.2.95 
-5-
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community served by the proposed subsidiaries lend some weight in 
favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
April 27, 1970. 

Item No, 
4/27/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
Merrill Bankshares Company, 
Bangor, Maine, 
for approval of acquisition of all 
°f the voting shares of the successor 
by merger to Federal Trust Company, 
Waterville, Maine. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
lQ42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, 
^aine, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares of the successor 
merger to Federal Trust Company, Waterville, Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Maine Bank Commissioner of receipt of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Commissioner interposed no objection to 
aPproval of the application. 

3237 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 5, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17931), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 27, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon , 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

j ; 
a 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MERRILL BANKSHARES COMPANY, BANGOR, MAINE, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING 
SHARES OF THE SUCCESSOR BY MERGER TO 
FEDERAL TRUST COMPANY, 
WATERVILLE, MAINE 
STATEMENT 
Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine ("Applicant"), 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, for prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares of a new State 
bank into which it proposes to merge Federal Trust Company, Waterville, 
ttaine ("Federal Trust"). The new bank has no significance except as a 
means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be merged into it; the 
Proposal is therefore treated herein as a proposal to acquire shares of 
federal Trust, 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
Wfl o 
given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Maine Bank 
Commissioner, The Commissioner interposed no objection to approval of 
t h e application. 

1239 
-2-
Itatut^ry_consideroj*JLnns. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
ate clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
t he transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
be served. 
In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
ttle financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
o f the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
c°ntrols about $89 million in deposits, and is the sixth largest banking 
0rganization and the smallest of four bank holding companies operating in 
Ha in ^/ T h e 1° largest banking organizations, which include the four 
bai*k holding companies, control about $887 million in deposits, representing 
82 
Per cent of the total deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. 
t e n 1 1 b a n k i n 8 d a t a a r e a s o f J u n e 3 0» 1969, unless otherwise noted, and 
£iect all holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
rd to date. 

1.300 
-3-
Upon acquisition of Federal Trust, which has deposits of $40 million, 
Applicant would become the fourth largest of such organisations; it would 
control 11.8 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State, 
an increase from 8.1 per cent. 
Applicant's subsidiary banks are Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, 
($87.- million deposits) and Washburn Trust Company, Washburn ($8 million 
in deposits), both of which are in Maine. Since its formation in 1969, 
applicant has competed principally in the Bangor area through Merrill 
^ust Company and in the northeastern corner of the State through its 
other subsidiary bank. Federal Trust has six offices, and principally 
Setves the Waterville market, which encompasses the area within a 15 mile 
radius c f Waterville. The distance between Federal Trust's home office 
in Waterville and Merrill Trust's main office in Bangor is about 45 miles. 
N o branch of Federal Trust is within 15 miles of an office of Merrill Trust. 
because of the distance separating Waterville from Bangor, there is no 
si8nificant competition between main offices of the two banks. It does 
aPPear that some of the branches of the two banks are sufficiently proximate 
to K 
regarded as reasonably convenient alternative sources of banking 
Se*vice for residents of the small towns located between them. However, 
n e total population of the towns so located is less than 5,000, and the 
ani°Urit of business involved is a very minor portion of the total deposits 
nc* loans of either bank. It therefore appears highly unlikely that the 
^°licies, prices, or competitive posture adopted by either bank are 
8 iSnifi c a n t l y affected by the competition of the other. Rather, the 
^ n c i p a l competitive stimulus to Federal Trust is, and, regardless 
Eoard action on the present application, will continue to be 

1239 
-2-
;Depository Trust Company ($139 million deposits), which is 
by far the largest bank in the State; which, like Federal Trust, is 
headquartered in Kennebec County; and which has a branch in Waterville. 
Similarly, the principal competitors of Merrill Trust are, and will remain, 
the other banks headquartered in Bangor. The elimination of the minimal 
competition between Federal Trust and Merrill Trust is therefore not 
tegarded as a significant adverse consideration with respect to the present 
aPPlication. 
With regard to potential competition, neither Federal Trust nor 
^errill Trust is able, under State law, to branch into the county 
Principally served by the other, except into a tovn which has no banking 
°£fice. However, it is possible, with supervisory approval, for banks 
the State to branch without restriction into counties contiguous to 
that in which they are headquartered, as well as within their home office 
county. Two counties, Somerset and Waldo, are contiguous to both Kennebec 
County (in which Waterville is located) and Penobscot County (in which 
Bangor is located), and therefore are within the unrestricted branching 
area of both Federal Trust and Merrill Trust. Although some potential 
thus exists for increased competition between the two banks, the possibility 
that significant competition would develop as a result of extensive 
br 
anching by either of them in the intervening counties is extremely 
demote, because of the economic unattractiveness of the areas involved 
9 s branch sites. 

In the Board's judgment, consummation of the proposal would 
have procompetitive effects of much greater significance than the adverse 
effects of the elimination of the aforedescribed present and potential 
competition. First, although Federal Trust has been an able competitor 
in the Waterville area, it has shown no inclination until recently to 
expand into the southern area of Kennebec County, which includes the 
Augusta market dominated by Depositors Trust Company. Recently, however, 
it has proposed to open a new branch in Augusta. While the proposed 
affiliation is perhaps not essential to the establishment of such a branch, 
^ seems clear that Federal Trust would be better able to offer significant 
competition to Depositors Trust Company in the Augusta area as a subsidiary 
o f Applicant than it would as an independent bank. A significant potential 
therefore exists that consummation of Applicant's proposal could facilitate 
increased competition in one of the State's most significant markets. 
Also, 
with representation in two of the State's larger banking markets (Bangor 
Waterville), and the ability to expand through branching into a third 
(Augusta), and with the increased size which would result from the proposed 
Acquisition, Applicant would have a greater ability to expand through 
^competitive means into other markets in the State, thereby significantly 
increasing potential competition in those areas. 
Cn balance, it is the Board's view that competitive considerations 
at least consistent with approval of the application. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 

J 3 
-6-
°r be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, and would not 
> 
• 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant, its subsidiary 
banks, and of Federal Trust are satisfactory, and their prospects appear 
favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of Applicant's proposal. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of residents of the areas served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and by Federal Trust appear to be adequately served at 
Present. However, all of the areas involved would benefit from the 
heater facility with which the banks will be able to meet larger credit 
needs in the communities which they serve, through loan participations 
am°ng them. Federal Trust and the present subsidiaries of Applicant would 
Q s a result of the increase in the resources of Applicant's system, have 
Neatly expanded credit capability. 
In addition, Federal Trust will have 
access to specialists on trust matters, lending, and daily operations, 
Bj. • 
to the computer facilities of Applicant's organization, which should 
t 6 8 u l t i n improvements in the services which it offers. 

Applicant also proposes a more extensive branch system for Federal Trust, 
which should lead to better service in towns which presently have no 
banking office or no significant competitive alternative 
Considerations under this factor favor approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
April 27, 1970. 

1.305 
Dissenting Statement of Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer 
We dissent from the Board's action because of our view that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will have significant adverse com-
petitive effects which are not outweighed by any other considerations. 
Maine is a State with a very small number of large, or even 
moderate-sized, banking organizations. Only 10 banking organizations 
in the State have deposits of over $20 million. These 10 organizations, 
among which are four bank holding companies, control over 80 per cent of 
the deposits held by all banks in the State. Applicant, the sixth largest 
°f such organizations, proposes, under the present application, to become 
the fourth largest through acquisition of a bank which is the eighth 
largest organization and the fourth largest independent bank in the 
State. It is obvious that the effect of that acquisition will be to 
concentrate the deposits of the State among still fewer organizations. 
But this is not the only, nor even the principal, anti-
competitive effect of the proposed acquisition. Under Maine law, a 
bank is permitted to branch freely in the county in which it is located 
and in counties contiguous thereto; outside of those areas, it may . 
branch only into a town which has no banking office. Waldo County and 
Somerset County are contiguous to both Kennebec County, in which Federal 
Trust is located, and Penobscot County, the headquarters county of 
Applicant's largest subsidiary, Merrill Trust Company. Both banks have 
offices in Waldo County, and Federal Trust has offices in southern 
Somerset County which compete to some extent with offices of Merrill 

1306 
- 2 -
Trust Company which are located near the county line. Existing competition 
between offices of Bank and Merrill Trust Company for business arising in 
the two counties would therefore be eliminated by the proposal, and a 
potential would be foreclosed for increased competition which could arise 
in the event of increased branching by either in the intervening counties. 
Applicant would become the dominant organization over a broad area of 
northeastern Maine, encompassing the entire area from Bangor to Waterville, 
45 miles southwest. Two bank holding companies, Applicant and De-
positors Corporation, the State's largest banking organization, would 
dominate the area from Augusta to Bangor as a result of the elimination 
o f the independent status of the only significant banking alternative 
located in the 60 mile area intervening those two cities. 
It seems apparent to us that an acquisition which would not 
°&ly lead to further concentration of State-wide banking resources, but 
which would also eliminate significant present and potential competition 
and extend the dominance of the Applicant into an adjacent banking 
market, is not in the public interest unless such anticompetitive . 
effects are justified by a demonstrated need for additional banking 
services in the area involved. No such need is evidenced in the present 
record. Federal Trust is a sound, well managed, full-service institution 
which appears to be adequately serving its area. There is no apparent 
need for it to affiliate with a holding company in order to preserve its 
^ability or ability to serve, and, even if there were such a need, the 
Present proposal represents one of the most anticompetitive of several 
alternatives available to it. 

3 3 
-3-
The Board's majority finds the anticompetitive effects of 
Applicant's proposal to be outweighed by the stronger competition which 
Applicant could potentially offer in Augusta and in other markets in the 
State. In a State such as Maine, the development of 3trong organizations 
capable of competing in most or all of the State's significant markets 
is an appropriate goal. But that development should be accomplished 
in a manner which maximizes, rather than minimizes, the number of 
existing and potential competitors in each of the markets involved. 
The present proposal is but one of several alternative affiliations 
available to Federal Trust; each of them would increase the bank's com-
petitive ability and increase the potential of the organization involved 
for expansion into other markets in the State. Most of them, however, 
Would do so without eliminating existing or potential competition in 
a nV area of the State, and, therefore, are competitively preferable to 
present proposal. Since the only effects which are arguably 
favorable to Applicant's proposal could be accomplished through much 
iess anticompetitive means, they provide no basis for approval of the 
aPplication. 
Under all the circumstances of this case, we believe that the 
statutory criteria require that the application be denied. 
APril 27, 1970. 

1308 
•f^TVsfr-
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
4/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 27, 1970 
Mr. Dwight A. Ink, 
Assistant Director for 
Executive Management, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Ink: 
This is in response to your letter of March 26 
with respect to a proposal submitted by the Department 
of Justice for consideration by the Committee on State 
Legislation of the Council of State Governments. 
The Board sees no reason why the proposal 
should not be submitted for review to the Council of 
State Governments. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary of the Board. 

1.3QD 
.'/oov-co,;: 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • RS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
4/27/70 
ADDREHS DrriCIAL C • R R E 5 P O N D C N C C 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 27, 1970 
Dear Sir: 
The Board would appreciate having a capsule report of 
your impressions concerning the current situation and near-term 
outlook in the residential mortgage market in your District, to 
be forwarded to reach the Board not later than Hay 13, 
In order to parallel a similar Federal Home Loan Bank 
survey of savings and loan associations, your report should re-
flect informal interviews with some (perhaps 15 to 25) represen-
tative bank and nonbank lenders in your District other than 
savings and loan associations--!.e., commercial banks, mutual 
savings banks, life insurance companies, and mortgage companies. 
These interviews should clicit responses to the attached 
questions, which generally parallel those asked in the last two 
surveys of May and September 1969. Interviews may be conducted 
at: any time after April 2C, so long as summaries of the findings 
reach the Board by the deadline indicated above. 
The questions to be asked are included in the 
attached questionnaire. After surveying all respondents, please 
summarize your impressions of typical District conditions in 
brief narrative form. In doing so, please comment on any strik-
ing differences among types of lenders, properties, or areas, 
and any other unusual developments of interest. Of special 
interest in this survey will again be findings that throw light 
on the relative importance of mortgage credit availability 
versus mortgage credit costs and nonrate terms in influencing 
market supply and demand. In this connection, comments will be 
particularly helpful in responses to questions 5, 6, 7, 11, 
and 12. In replying, please take each question in turn and 
indicate, where appropriate, the total number of respondents 
of each type that chose each of the various multiple-choice 
answers. If you have any suggestions about rewording the 
questions--or about including new questions--that should be 
considered whenever another survey may be held, please so 
indicate. 

The reports for all Districts will be tabulated and 
summarized by the Board's staff, along with the findings of 
the Federal Home Loan Banks, for distribution in the Green 
Book of May 20. Survey replies should be sent to the Secre-
tary's Office; if the reply is made by letter, an original 
plus three copies would be appreciated. Meanwhile, questions 
regarding the survey should be addressed to Mr. Pvobert Fisher 
at the Board. 
Very truly yours 
Normand Bernard, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

1 3 1 1 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/27/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 30, 1970 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
As indicated by Governor Sherrill in a phone 
conversation with you this morning, the report by the Com-
mittee on Federal Reserve Bank Computers relating to your 
Bank's research computer proposal has been considered by 
the Board which expressed agreement with the recommendations 
contained therein. Pursuant to Governor Sherrill's conversa-
tion, three copies of the Committee's report are enclosed. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 
I 
