MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 28, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 28, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman!/ 
Mr. Mitchell!/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forre-stal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics.?/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance^/ 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Economic review. A review of the kind customarily offered 
in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
presented, the reports being based to some extent on materials that 
had been compiled in preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee. 
Copies of the relevant documents have been placed in the files of the 
Committee. 
1/ Attended morning session only. 
2/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

10/28/68 
-2-
o ? 8 0 
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of 
the research divisions other than Mr. Brill withdrew from the meeting, 
as did Messrs. Broida, Coyne, Bernard, and Morgan. The following 
entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kline of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Charter New York Corporation. The Board authorized issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting its action on September 6, 1968, denying 
the application of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire all of the outstanding voting shares of Central Trust Company 
Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, New York, along with dissenting statements 
by Governor Mitchell and by Governors Daane and Sherrill. Copies of 
the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
United Bancshares. United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., 
Coral Gables, Florida, had applied for permission to acquire shares of 
United National Bank of Dadeland, Miami, Florida, a proposed new bank, 
and the recommendations, as set forth in a memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated October 16, 1968, were favorable. 

o 
10/28/68 
- 3 -
In discussion, some concern was expressed with regard to 
the financial position of the holding company, in particular its 
failure to reduce the heavy indebtedness incurred at the time of its 
formation in 1966, and question was raised whether improvement in the 
situation could be anticipated. In their ensuing comments, members of 
the staff pointed out, among other things, that much of the indebtednes 
had been incurred incident to the acquisition of shares of a bank that 
had been in fairly poor condition but had since experienced good growth 
Despite ameliorating factors, however, the debt position was admittedly 
abnormally high. 
It was then suggested that the letter notifying applicant 
of the Board's action on the present application include language 
reflecting the Board's concern with regard to the holding company's 
debt position and indicating that the Board would not be disposed to 
give favorable consideration to additional acquisition proposals unless 
the indebtedness was retired or at least substantially reduced. There 
was agreement with this suggestion. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
One-bank holding companies. A memorandum from the Office of 
the Secretary dated October 25, 1968, recommended the use of several 
consultants in connection with the current study of bank conglomeration 

3 'Vs'/d 
10/28/68 
- 4 -
with special emphasis on the one-bank holding company question. The 
persons mentioned were Almarin Phillips, George Hall, Lester V. Chandler, 
Donald Turner, David H. Alhadeff, and Jesse W. Markham, and it was 
proposed that another legal scholar be added if a suitable person 
could be located. 
Messrs. Phillips, Hall, and Chandler were already under 
appointment as Board consultants, and it was recommended that the 
appointment of the others be authorized, on the usual terms and 
conditions. 
The appointment, where necessary, of the persons mentioned, 
including the additional legal scholar, was authorized, for use in 
connection with the study, with the understanding that if it were 
found that any one of the persons could not be obtained for the 
purpose the staff could obtain a suitable replacement. 
The memorandum also suggested, as one activity on the part 
of the consultants, that arrangements be made for them to participate 
in at least one, and perhaps more, round-table discussions of the 
issues involved in the one-bank holding company question and related 
matters. The date of November 15, 1968, was mentioned as one appearing 
to be convenient from the standpoint of the Board. 
There was general agreement that such a meeting should be 
arranged. 

37g3 
10/28/68 
- 5 -
In addition, the memorandum raised the question whether it 
might be desirable for the Board to issue a press release announcing 
the study of one-bank holding companies and inviting public comments 
on the issues involved. 
After discussion, it was the consensus that the question of 
issuing such a statement should be held in abeyance, one reason given 
by some Board members being that they would like first to receive the 
views of the consultants. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
San Francisco National Bank. The Board was informed that 
Mr. Swan, President of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, and 
Reserve Bank counsel, Judge Eldriken, were in the building today and 
would like to discuss with the Board a proposed agreement pursuant to 
which some 100 pending lawsuits arising out of the closing of the 
San Francisco National Bank, San Francisco, California, in 1965 
would be settled. 
After a brief discussion, it was understood that the Board 
would meet again this afternoon to consider the matter. 
Accordingly, the meeting recessed and reconvened in the 
Board Room at 2:30 p.m. with Chairman Martin and Messrs. Daane, 
Malsel, and Sherrill present. Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Hackley, 
Hexter, Solomon (Supervision and Regulation), and O'Connell also 
were present. 

%Jt 
10/28/68 
-6-
With further reference to the San Francisco National Bank 
matter, Mr. O'Connell briefed the Board on the terms of the proposed 
agreement pursuant to which the numerous lawsuits that had arisen out 
of the closing of the bank would be settled. Among the cases were 
those involving the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the 
collateral held by it as security for advances made to San Francisco 
National Bank prior to its closing. The District Court decision had 
been favorable to the Reserve Bank, but the cases were currently on 
appeal to the Court of Appeals. Under the terms of the proposed 
settlement agreement, creditors of the closed national bank would 
receive about 52 cents on the dollar. As its contribution to the 
total of approximately $15.9 million that the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, as receiver, would pay to creditors, the 
Reserve Bank would agree to relinquish interest in the amount of 
$373,000 that had been placed in escrow to its account on notes given 
the Reserve Bank as collateral for advances to the national bank. 
Only about $393,000 would be contributed by the directors of 
the national bank, Mr. O'Connell noted, and that might be a cause for 
some concern, as had been mentioned by Governor Sherrill at this 
morning's session. Governor Sherrill repeated that he viewed that 
aspect of the matter with some concern; however, a judgment on the 
part of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation was involved and it 
had been made. In any event, the risk and cost involved in further 

10/28/68 
- 7 -
litigation on the part of the Reserve Bank seemed out of proportion to 
the contribution it would have to make under the terms of the settlement. 
Mr. O'Connell indicated that he did not feel that the Board 
should be called upon to approve the Reserve Bank's participation in 
the settlement agreement. Instead, he suggested that the Board might 
express its concurrence. Chairman Martin proposed, as an alternative, 
that the Board interpose no objection, and Mr. O'Connell agreed with 
that solution. 
Messrs. Swan and Eldriken joined the meeting at this point, 
along with Mr. Farrell of the Board's staff. 
President Swan presented the reasons, concurred in by 
counsel, that had led him to conclude that he should recommend to 
the directors of the Reserve Bank that the Bank participate in the 
proposed settlement agreement on the terms described. He referred 
particularly to the unattractiveness of the alternative, which involved 
the prospect of costly and protracted litigation with the possibility 
of an ultimate liability to the Reserve Bank in a larger amount. 
In reply to a question from the Chairman regarding the adequacy 
°f the payment to be made by the directors of the national bank, 
Mr. Eldriken referred to the judgment of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation that the figure represented the maximum that could be 
obtained, to which he added that the judgment of the Corporation in 
that regard would have to be confirmed by the Court. 

3 7 8 6 
10/28/68 
-8-
After further discussion it was indicated that in all the 
circumstances the Board would interpose no objection to the Reserve 
Bank's participation in the proposed settlement agreement. 
Mr. Holland referred to the seemingly less than completely 
sympathetic attitude evidenced by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation toward the Federal Reserve's role as lender of last 
resort and suggested that it might be desirable to explore that 
question with the Corporation on a more generalized basis at a later 
date. Messrs. Swan and Eldriken mentioned practical considerations 
in this case that may have contributed to the Corporation's apparent 
attitude, following which Chairman Martin expressed agreement with Mr. 
Holland's suggestion that the point, a vital one in his judgment, be 
explored from the standpoint of situations that might arise in the 
future. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

5 7 8 7 
Item No. 1 
10/28/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Washington, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
New York, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of all 
of the voting shares of 
Central Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., 
Rochester, New York. 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York Corporation, 
New York, New York, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
°f all of the outstanding voting shares of Central Trust Company 
Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the New York State 
Superintendent of Banks and requested his views and recommendation. 
The New York State Banking Board advised the Board of its action, 
consistent with a recommendation made to it by the Superintendent, 

-2-
approving an application, filed pursuant to the New York Banking 
Law, with respect to the same transaction. 
Notice of rcccipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on April 24, 1968 (33 Federal Register 6263), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit 
comments and views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A 
copy of the application was forwarded to the United States Department 
of Justice for its consideration./ Time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 28th day of October, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Maisol, and Brimmer. 
Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
* OF THE 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
CENTRAL TRUST COMPANY ROCHESTER, N. Y. 
STATEMENT 
Charter Net? York Corporation, New York, New York ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of all of the 
outstanding voting shares of Central Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., 
Rochester, Nev; York ("Central Trust"). 
Applicant presently controls four banks with 40 banking 
offices and aggregate deposits of $3.5 billion. 
Central Trust, 
ttith 14 offices and deposits of $191 million, is the fourth largest 
of five banks in Rochester, and of 31 banks in New York State's 
Eighth Banking Dsitrict. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the 
P~~A11 banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 

Nov7 York State Superintendent of Banks; In view of his coordinate 
responsibilities under New York lav;, the Superintendent did not 
comment directly to the Board. The New York State Banking Board, 
however, advised the Board of its action, consistent with a 
recommendation of the Superintendent (a copy of which was also 
provided to the Board), approving an application with respect to 
the same transaction pursuant to Article III-A of the New York 
Banking Law. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result 
in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or 
conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve any other proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any 
section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would 
be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anti-
competitive effects of the transaction arc clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenient and needs of 
the community to be served. 

u 
- 3 -
Competitivo effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant 
•s i 
.... 
... a 
..... . 
. . , 
is presently the eighth largest commercial banking organization 
(branch banking organizations and bank holding companies) in New York 
State and the State*s third largest bank holding company; its 
subsidiaries account for approximately 4.6 per cent of the deposits 
held by all commercial banks in the State. The 12 largest banking 
organizations in the State control 04 per cent of the total deposits 
held by all commercial banks located therein. Applicant's share of 
-State deposits, and that of the State's largest banking organi-
zations, would be increased by ,3 per cent in the event of con-
summation of the present proposal. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary bank, Irving Trust Company, 
the seventh largest bank in New York City, has total deposits of 
$3.3 billion. Its other subsidiary banks arc The Merchants National 
Bank & Trust Company, Syracuse ($161 million deposits), Endicott 
Trust Company, Endicott ($54 million deposits), and Dutchess Bank & 
Trust Company, Poughkecpsie ($31 million deposits). 
Rochester, Central Trust's home office city, is located in 
Monroe County in New York's Eighth Banking District. It is the 
third largest city in New York, and one of the leading industrial* 
business, transportation, and cultural centers in the State. Its 
current population of 295,000 represents about 45 per cent of that 
of Monroe County and 35 per cent of that of the Eighth Banking 
District, a six-county region covering an area of over 4,300 square 

miles in the northwestern part of New York State. In terms of 
population, employment, and business and industrial activity, the 
Rochester area has experienced a more rapid growth in recent years 
than New York State or upstate New York as a whole, and this trend 
is expected to continue in the future. Rochester has excellent 
transportation facilities, which include five railroads as well as 
highly accessible highways. Three airlines serve the city, and 
Port Rochester, on Lake Ontario, serves ocean going vessels entering 
the Great Lakes via the St. Lawrence Sea\*ay. Rochester is recognized 
as a precision-industry city, the world leader in the production of 
Photographic equipment, optical goods, dental equipment, and control 
instruments; it also ranks high in the manufacture of men's clothing, 
commercial equipment, plastics, and office supplies. The area has 
the highest percentage of skilled professional and technical employees 
of any area in the United States, and its unemployment rate is con-
sistently one of the lowest in the country. 
Of Central Trust1s 14 offices, seven arc located in 
Rochester and five others arc in Monroe County. The two remaining 
offices are located in Uaync County and Steuben County, 17 miles 
cast and 50 miles south, respectively, of Rochester. The market 
served by Rochester-headquartered banks encompasses Monroe, Livingston, 
2/ 
and Uaync Counties ("the greater Rochester area"). 
Its potential 
2/ 
This area coincides with the Rochester Standard Metropolitan 
Statistical Area, except that the latter Area includes Orleans County, 
Uhich is not located in the Eighth Banking District and therefore is 
not regarded as a part of the local banking market. 

- 5 -
branching area, under New York law, is the entire Eighth Banking 
District (which consists of those three counties plus the counties 
of Ontario, Yates and Steuben), except that the law precludes 
establishment of a branch in a city or village which is the location 
of the principal office of an independent bank. 
The closest of Applicant's present subsidiaries to the 
greater Rochester area is The Merchants National Bank & Trust Company, 
the main office of which, in Syracuse, is located G2 miles from 
Rochester and a branch office of which is located about 50 miles from 
the Wayne County office of Central Trust. Applicant's largest sub-
sidiary, Irving Trust Company, is located 312 miles from Rochester. 
Business derived by Central Trust from areas served by Applicant's 
subsidiaries is minimal, as is that derived by the present sub-
sidiaries from the greater Rochester area and the Eighth Banking 
District. The effect of Applicant's proposal on existing competition, 
therefore, docs not constitute a significant obstacle to approval of 
the application. 
There arc other competitive considerations, however, which 
are of much greater concern. The Board has previously had occasion 
to express its views with respect to the inconsistency with the 
purpose and intent of the Act of proposals which would tend toward 
creation of a banking structure consisting of a few giant banking 
< 
organizations competing only among themselves in a-State's significant 

- 6 -
si-
banking markets. The most recent exposition of these views occurred 
in connection with the Boardfs reconsideration and affirmance of 
an Order denying an application by BT New York Corporation, Suffern, 
Hew York, to acquire voting shares of Liberty National Bank and 
Trust Company, Buffalo (Ninth Banking District), New York. V 
That 
case involved a proposal by the sixth largest banking organization 
in New York State to acquire a $341 million deposit bank, the third 
largest in the State's most highly concentrated major banking market, 
and the fourth largest independent bank in upstate New York. 
Many of the same considerations found to require denial of 
that application apply with equal force and effect to the proposal 
°f Applicant, the eighth largest banking organization in the State, 
to acquire Central Trust, the seventh largest independent bank in 
upstate New York. The greater Rochester area, which, like Buffalo, 
is a significant and growing economic market, has the second highest 
concentration of banking resources among the State's major banking 
markets. Five banks are headquartered in Rochester, the four largest 
of which are Lincoln Rochester Trust Company ($692 million deposits), 
a subsidiary of Lincoln First Banks Inc., a registered bank holding 
company; Marine Midland Trust Company ($305 million deposits), a 
subsidiary of Marine Midland Banks, Inc., a registered bank holding 
company; Security Trust Company ($300 million deposits), a subsidiary 
of Security New York State Corporation, a registered bank holding 
company; and Central Trust. The fifth bank in the city is First 
V 54 Federal Reserve Bulletin (1968). The Board's original Order and 
Statement in that case appear at 53 Federal Reserve Bulletin 769 (1967). 

37<*'S 
- 7 -
National Bank of Rochester, an independent bank chartered in 1963, 
which has total deposits of $13 million. The four large banks 
account, in the aggregate, for 95 per cent of the total deposits 
held by 17 banks in the greater Rochester area and 07 per cent of 
the deposits held by the 31 banks in the Eighth Banking District. 
„ • Kf 
•*" 
Central Trust, the smallest of the four, accounts for 12 per cent 
and 11 per cent of area and Eighth District deposits, respectively. 
Consummation of the proposal would result in the same three bank 
holding companies (Applicant, Marine Midland, and Lincoln First) con-
trolling three of the four largest banks in both the Rochester and 
Syracuse areas, which arc located in adjoining Banking Districts. These 
three holding companies presently account for 67 per cent of the total 
deposits in the Syracuse (Onondaga County) area, and would account 
for about 77 per cent of the deposits in the greater Rochester area. 
From the foregoing discussion, the parallel between the 
present proposal and that denied by the Board in a unanimous decision 
in the BT New York matter, supra, seems clear. The market involved 
is highly concentrated, thus requiring particular care to preserve 
the possibility of eventual deconcentration. Applicant, based on 
its overall size and the scope of its operations, appears capable of 
expanding its upstate operations through means less likely to raise 
higher the existing barriers to entry in this concentrated market, 
and Central Trust is one of the few remaining independent banks of 
such size as to bo capable, through affiliation with other banks of 

- 8 -
similar size, of providing competition on a regional basis with 
Applicant and other large holding companies. Affiliation of Central 
Trust with Applicant not only would stifle such potential competition, 
but would bring one significant step closer the domination of sig-
nificant banking markets in the State by a few large organizations. 
The question of whether the effect of an acquisition "may 
be substantially to lessen competition", the Supreme Court has noted, 
"is not the kind of question which is susceptible of a ready and 
precise answer in most cases. It requires not merely an appraisal 
of the immediate impact of the . . . [acquisition] upon competition, 
but a prediction of its impact upon competitive conditions in the 
future . . . ." United States v. Philadelphia National Bank, 374 
u. S. 321, 362 (1963). In making that prediction, it is essential 
to bear in mind that if a competitive structure is lost through undue 
Permissiveness, it cannot readily be restored. Uhen a proposal 
involves the elimination of an independent competitor of the size 
and competitive force of Central Trust, the event is of such irreversible 
Proportions that particular care is required in analyzing its implications 
for the structure of banking markets. Also, although each application 
roust be judged on its own merits, sound administrative procedure requires 
consideration of the precedential effect of determinations made pursuant 
' 4/ 
to the Act. 
jTsce Brownlhoo Co. v. United States, 370 U.S. 294, 343-344 (1952): 
"If a merger achieving 5% control were now approved, we might be required 
to approve future merger efforts by Brown's competitors seeking similar 
market shares. The oligopoly Congress sought to avoid would then be 
furthered and it would be difficult to dissolve the combinations 
Previously approved." 

- 9 -
3 7 9 7 
While no agency is required to follow prcccdent which sub-
sequent developments establish to be improvident, it should avoid 
establishing precedent which, if consistently applied, will clearly 
do violence to the letter and spirit of the legislation which it has 
the duty of impartially administering. To do otherwise would be to 
confer on a particular applicant a competitive advantage which similarly 
situated applicants would be deprived in the future of the opportunity 
to overcome, and the unwillingness of a particular applicant to under-
take less anticompetitive methods of expansion which are within its 
capability docs not justify such a preference. 
In finding Applicant fully capable of expanding to serve 
additional markets in upstate New York without resort to acquisitions 
of the size and potential anticompetitive effects of that here pro-
posed, the Board has considered the fact that Applicant's largest sub-
sidiary, Irving Trust Company, is primarily a wholesale bank. The 
ability of Applicant to assist small upstate banks in developing the 
retail phase of their business or to sponsor the establishment of new 
banks which could significantly compete for such business, however, 
is not to be gauged solely by the expertise of Irving Trust Company. 
In seeking approval of its formation, Applicant asserted that the 
affiliation of Irving Trust with Merchants National Bank & Trust 
Company would permit the former to draw upon the retail expertise of 
the latter to extend retail services to Irving Trust's New York City 
customers, ~ and since Applicant's formation, Irving Trust has in 
> 
5/ Application""of Charter New York Corporation, 52 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 527, 530 (1966). 

3 7 8 8 
-10-
fact engaged in a vigorous advertising program apparently designed 
to expand this phase of its business. It is apparent that, considering 
the aggregate financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiaries, Applicant has the ability to expand by means more con-
sistent with the preservation of sound banking competition. 
A judgment on a proposal's consistency or inconsistency with 
the competitive standard of the Bank Holding Company Act must be 
Guided by the intent of Congress in enacting the legislation. Reference 
6/ 
to the committee reports 
on the original bank holding company 
legislation makes clear that the primary objectives of Congress in 
establishing a competitive standard to be applied to applications such 
as that presently before the Board were to prevent the concentration 
of banking resources in the hands of a few large banking organizations 
and to protect and encourage a framework for a banking structure 
consisting of as many separate and competing banking organizations as 
can effectively and efficiently serve the convenience and needs of 
the banking public. In 1966, the Act was amended to incorporate a 
competitive standard identical with that of the antitrust laws. That 
amendment evidences no departure from the original goals of Congress. 
* 
Rather, the Clayton Act, from which is derived the restriction against 
acquisitions the effect of which "may be substantially to lessen 
ftf , 
, „ ' 
6/ Sen. Rep. No. 1095, C4th Cong., July 25, 1955; H.-Rep. No. 609, 
84th Cong., May 20, 1955. 

-11-
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly" was itself inspired 
by "what x*as considered to be a rising tide of economic concentration 
in the American economy" (Brown Shoe Co. v. United States, 370 U. S. 
294, 315 (1962)), and the fact that Congress has mandated that standard 
as one to bo applied to bank holding company expansion serves to under-
score its determination to prevent undue concentration in the banking 
industry arising out of such expansion. And because Congress saw 
the proccss of concentration as a dynamic force, it sought to brake 
this force at its outset and before it gathered momentum. Id, at 
317-310. 
The basic issue to be determined under the competitive 
criterion is whether consummation of the proposal presented by the 
application would be inconsistent with the goal of preventing undue 
concentration of banking resources. For the reasons stated herein and 
discussed in detail in the Board's Statement on the BT New York appli-
cation earlier cited, the Board concludes that affiliation of one of 
the few remaining large independent banks in upstate New York, and 
the only such bank in the highly conccntrated Rochester area, with one 
of the largest bank holding companies presently in operation in the 
State would tend toward that concentration of banking resources which 
it was Congress' purpose to avoid. Consummation of Applicant's pro-
posal would substantially lessen potential competition and tend to 
create a monopoly in commercial banking in the greater Rochester area, 

the Eighth Banking District of the State of New York, and other 
upstate areas. Under the Act, the Board is precluded from approving 
such a proposal unless it finds that benefits which the proposal 
would confer upon the convenience and needs of the communities 
involved clearly outweigh these anticompetitive effects. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consum-
mation of Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience and 
needs of the communities served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
The adequacy of banking facilities in the Rochester area is 
not seriously disputed by Applicant. It is contended, however, that 
Central Trust's affiliation with Applicant would permit the bank to 
* 
broaden the range of services which it offers and to improve the 
quality of its present services, and would provide the bank with more 
ready access to loanable funds which could be used to serve the needs 
of its community. 
The record indicates that Central Trust is a viable and 
competitive bank which has provided quality banking services to its 
community, and particularly to the small businesses located therein. 
Over the past 20 years, its share of deposits held by Rochester banks 
has increased slightly, ranging from about 10 to 11 per cent in the 
1950's to about 11 to 12 per cent in the 1960's. This slight increase 
is attributable to a sharp rise in the bank's share, of municipal and 
State deposits - from 12 per cent in the mid-1950's to about 20 to 2o 

S S C I 
- 1 3 -
fc 
per cent recently. Its performance in lending to business, the 
touchstone of commercial banking, has been exceptional. Although 
accounting for only 10 to 12 per cent of the commcrcial bank assets, 
it has accounted over the past 15 years for about 18 to 23 per cent 
of the commercial and industrial loans of Rochester-headquartered banks. 
Central Trust's share of that loan market is about equal to that of 
the area's third largest bank, and only moderately lower than the 
30 per cent share of each of the two largest banks in Rochester. 
Applicant disclaims any intent to transform Central Trust 
from a small businessmen's bank into a "big business-oriented bank." 
It is asserted, however, that the proposed affiliation will permit the 
bank to more adequately serve present customers who are in the process 
of outgrowing the bank's capacity to serve them. It is also contended 
that Central Trust's reliance upon public deposits provides it with 
a less stable lending base than would a greater proportion of other 
deposits which are not as subject to sudden fluctuation. Applicant 
asserts that Irving Trust Company is prepared to restrict its out-
standing real estate loans by $20 million to $25 million in order to 
support liquidity needs of Central Trust in the event public deposits 
are drawn down or as needed to finance new loan demand in the Rochester 
area. 
Although such figures as are available suggest that Central 
Trust's rate of deposit growth has been about equal' to the growth in 
: • • .y V ? V • ... , • 
,, ' V 
. , y 
• . 
... 
• / 

- 1 4 -
average size of the industrial establishments and trade firms in 
the Rochester area, there are undoubtedly some customers of Central 
Trust which are growing at a rate sufficient to develop borrowing 
needs which the bank cannot fill without assistance. There is every 
reason to believe, however, that any inability of Central Trust in 
this respect does not result in such needs remaining unfilled, since 
any firm developing such needs presumably has access not only to 
larger Rochester banks, but to regional or national banking markets. 
Nor does it appear likely that any loss of such customers will result 
in an inability of Central Trust to find sufficient lending outlets, 
since any slack in loan demand from that source would be taken up, as 
it has been in the past, by new businesses entering the market and 
by the expanding needs of existing small and medium-sized firms. 
Any increase in Central Trust's ability in this respect xjould benefit 
only those larger customers whose alternatives are numerous, and could 
result in limiting the amount of its resources devoted to the needs of 
smaller customers whose alternatives are more restricted. 
While it is true that public deposits are traditionally 
regarded as more volatile than most other deposits, there has been 
no indication of such instability of the funds held by Central Trust 
as to bse a matter of serious concern, and the bank, with a loans to 
deposits ratio of over 70 per xent, clearly has not been inhibited 
in its lending activity by its deposit structure. Moreover, Appli-
cant's proposal to restrict the real estate loans of Irving Trust 

-15-
to provide funds to the Rochester area would involve a contraction 
of credit in one section of the economy, ostensibly just as deserving 
and needy, in the same measure as credit would be expanded in the 
Rochester area. There is no reason to prefer the allocation of scarce 
credit resources proposed to that dictated by impartial market forces, 
i. 
and the proposed reallocation therefore provides no basis for approval. 
In addition to the above, Applicant asserts that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would result in various internal 
economies for Central Trust, development of international banking 
services, and expansion of trust, consumer lending, and other domestic 
banking services. All of the new services proposed are already 
available in the Rochester area, and their introduction at Central 
Trust, as well as the improvements proposed, relate only to the con-
venience, rather than the needs, of the Rochester community. There 
is no evidence that such a broadened or improved service offering 
could riot be accomplished by means less inimical to the preservation 
o f future competition. 
Considerations under this factor arc consistent with approval, 
but do not outweigh the anticompetitive effects noted earlier. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition, management, and future prospects of Applicant and 
*ts present subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory. 
The financial condition of Central Trust is regarded as 
rcasonably satisfactory and its management is experienced and capable, 

although some difficulty has been experienced in attracting junior 
officers. Deposits and loans of the bank have grown by over 150 per 
cent in the last 10 years, and its earnings in relation to its assets 
have in recent years been above average for banks of similar size 
in the Second Federal Reserve District. 
T h e greater facility for raising additional capital which 
• 
affiliation would provide is a consideration of slight weight in view 
the success of Central Trust, without assistance, in increasing its 
capital on an average of every three years over the last 25 years. 
Prospects of the bank appear good regardless of whether Applicant's 
Proposal is consummated. 
Considerations under this factor provide only slight weight 
for approval of the application. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts contained 
•*n th'e record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 
3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal may have the effect of substantially lessening 
competition or tending to create a monopoly, and that the anti-
oompetitive effects of the transaction are not clearly outweighed in 
public interest by any probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
^ e convenience and needs of the community to be served. Accordingly, 
the application should be denied. 
October 28, 1963. 

3 8 0 5 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
My dissent from the majority's position on the application 
of Charter New York Corporation to acquire Central Trust Company 
reflects a basic disagreement with certain of the majority's 
findings of fact and conclusions relating to the service character-
istics and potential of Irving Trust Company and Central Trust 
Company. I also disagree with the conjectural conclusion that, in 
view of Charter's "giant" size, Rochester and the State of New York 
would be better served by Central's affiliation with some smaller, yet 
unformed, holding company group. 
Vlhile Central is not a "problem" bank in the usual sense of 
the word, it does have, in addition to the typical management succession 
and capital difficulties of banks of its size, a rather special problem. 
In order to carry out its aggressive loan program it has had to place 
disproportionate reliance on two sources of funds subject to special 
uncertainties or volatility, namely on local government deposits and 
on negotiable certificates of deposit. This is evidenced by its share 
of the various deposit markets in the community. IJhile it has only 11.G 
Per cent of total deposits, its market share of State and local 
1/ 
deposits is 22.6 per cent, - and its share of IPC time deposits under 
6, 
2/ 
$100,000 is 14.7 per cent. ~ 
1/ As of June 29, I960. 
2/ As of June 30, 1966. 

Central's growth measured absolutely, or relative to that 
of other Rochester banks, has been good. However, the heavy orien-
tation of its deposit structure toward public deposits and its 
heavily-loaned position negative the reasonable probability that 
Central could meet the growing finance requirements of its present 
customers, or even the lesser sized loan needs of new business entries 
to the Rochester market. Further, the existing level of loan activity--
a distinguishing feature of the bank's operation that in my opinion 
should be supported in the public interest—involves a potential for 
exposure when viewed in the light of the bank's deposit structure. 
Charter offers to backstop these exposures to the extent of 
$20-$25 million. There is no reason to doubt that it would do so or 
to believe that such assistance would be unprofitable. The acqui-
sition proposal is consistent with such a stance. Since there is 
Nothing in the record to indicate that Central is particularly attrac-
• 
tive as a source of loanable funds to be invested elsewhere, it is 
reasonably assumed that Charter's interest in acquiring Central stems 
from its conviction that the return on developing business in Rochester 
will prove more profitable than some of Irving Trust's present 
Portfolio investments. Central's specialization in financing small 
and medium-sized businesses is the key to these better prospects, and 
to the economic logic of Charter's proposal to utilize Central as its 
conduit to expansion and development in the Rochester area. The entire 
business sector in the Rochester area would be the principal bene-
ficiary of this proposal. Admittedly, Irving Trust and Central Trust would 

S S 0 7 
- 3 -
be co-beneficiaries of the arrangement. None of these interests would 
as certainly be beneficiaries of any alternative service proposal. 
Importantly, and contrary to the conclusion implicit in the Board's 
Statement, any expansion in Central Trust's service potential, par-
ticularly with respect to larger loans to existing customers whose 
continuing growth has placed them beyond Central's lending ability, 
would not appear to occur at the expense of those business customers 
of Central which will remain- small to medium sized. 
With respect to the competitive effect of the proposal, the 
majority implies that Central and the community of Rochester might 
be 
advantaged by a holding company affiliation for Central, but that 
such affiliation should be with a group of smaller banks and perhaps 
regional in character. If the purpose is to lessen exposure to 
adverse competitive effects it would seem that affiliations which are 
an extension of market participation are to be preferred over those 
that confine participations regionally or to limited market specialties. 
Affiliations involving, as this one does, broader geographic coverage 
and' greater variety in specialization must be viewed as diluting 
existing or potential concentrations. 
Moreover, the issue should not be the absolute size of 
Charter; Charter derives its size from Irving. Irving derives its size 
from correspondent, foreign, and wholesale banking operations. In 
its international operations it faces the competition of a score or 

3808 
- 4 -
roore of U.S. banks (and foreign institutions, too, for that matter). 
This has little or nothing to do with Rochester, Nor is the size 
of Irving1s competitive position in the United States, New York 
State, or New York City primarily at issue here. An appropriate 
competitive analysis is only fogged by references to these market 
areas and their magnitudes. tJhat is at issue is the competition in 
Rochester and environs. Charter states it will not enter this market 
ijc novo. Will some other possible entrant be a better competitor? 
The majority's view that this will be the case can, at the most, only 
he conjectural. 
As to whether Central Trust would or could, with the same 
Potential for competitive status that is offered by Applicant's 
Proposal, become a lead bank in a regional holding company system, I 
am disinclined to accept the likelihood of such an occurrence. Even 
assuming away the practical difficulties of such an affiliation, the 
relatively small sizes of Central Trust and the remaining independent 
hanks in the region, combined with Central Trust's lack of experience 
in the rendition of a broad scale of banking services to the 
Rochester market, make unlikely Central Trust's move in this direction 
in the foreseeable future. 
In sum, I find that the favorable competitive potential 
evident in the proposal is far greater than that likely to result from 
the conjectured hypothesis of an Upstate holding company by the majority. 

3 8 C 9 
-5-
But more importantly I find Applicant's proposal will clearly benefit 
the Rochester area economic interests — small, medium, and large--
from Central Trust's expanded service rendition. I would approve 
the application. 
October 28, 1968. 

3810 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS DAANE AND SHERRILL 
We concur in the reasoning of the dissenting position 
expressed by Governor Mitchell. Our separately stated dissent is 
intended to focus more sharply on, and thus to emphasize, certain 
the points contained in Governor Mitchell's dissent. 
First, ue find undue the reliance placed by the Board's 
Majority on the effect of Charter's proposal on areas beyond Rochester, 
Particularly the Board's reliance on Statewide deposit control data. 
Charter's application, whether viex^ed in the context of competitive 
consequences, market response, or ultimate benefit to specific communi-
ties. deals directly and emphatically with the immediate Rochester area. 
*t is the latter area, therefore, that must be the focal point for a 
decision on this application. When thus viewed, we believe, for the 
reasons set forth in Governor Mitchell's Dissenting Statement, particu-
larly those emphasized herein, that the application should be approved. 
Charter's proposal to make available to Central, through 
Irving Trust, some $20-$25 million, in the event of an undue outflow 
Central's public deposits, is viewed by the majority as undesirable 
that it would interfere with "impartial market forces" now regu-
lating the allocation of resources, and would substitute a forced 
misallocation of such resources. We submit that the proposed placement 
o f $25 million in the Rochester market would be clearly responsive to 
Market forces, evidencing a business judgment that use of these funds 
in the Rochester market would be more profitable than their continued 

use in Irving's investment portfolio. Further, direction of these 
funds from Irving to Central's trade area would be of direct benefit 
to the business interests in Rochester where, as established by the 
record, the growth of Central's business customers has placed them 
beyond Central's present lending ability. Nor would such larger lines 
of credit be extended at the expense of smaller business customers 
whose interests, Applicant states, will continue to be a matter of 
Principal concern to Central's management. The extent to which Appli-
cant's proposal will serve the clear and present needs of the Rochester 
area argues strongly for approval of the application. 
It is an aspect of the latter consideration to which we 
address our final comment. As indicated, we believe that Applicant 
has established the likelihood that significant benefits will result 
from consummation of its proposal. Admittedly, Central has, as the 
majority states, a record of sound growth. That growth is attributable 
in the main, however, to Central's rendition of banking service to 
small and medium size customers in the Rochester area. In turn, this 
service has, in part, resulted in the growth and expansion of these 
customers to a point that Central's size now disenables it to render 
full banking services, particularly credit accommodations, to many of 
its customers. Consummation of Applicant's proposal will, as stated in 
Governor Mitchell's Dissenting Statement, enable Irving Trust and Central 
to share in the responsibility and benefits incident to answering these 
demands for larger credit accommodations in the Rochester area, and to 

continue with increased facility Central's response to existing and 
future demands for credit by small and medium size borrowers. We find 
no evidence that either class of borrowers will be disserved by this 
Proposal; rather each should benefit measurably therefrom. 
We conclude that the minimal adverse competitive effect 
inherent in this proposal is clearly outweighed by the benefits likely 
to inure to the residents and businesses in the Rochester area. Ue 
cannot accept the majority's conclusion that denial of Applicant's pro-
posal is warranted because of Applicant's ability to expand into the 
Rochester area by means more consistent with the preservation of sound 
competition. As stated by Governor Mitchell, this conclusion is con-
jectural; Not only is the conclusion unsupported by affirmative evidence 
that 
alternative means of expansion are reasonably available to Charter, 
but it is in direct conflict with Applicant's stated intention. Accord-
ingly, we would approve the application. 
A- 
- •' 
October 28. 1963. 
