FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
i 
ilij 
Minutes for 
April 29, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robe 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

105 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 29, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to its continuing to hold shares of Societe Hypothecarie 
et de Gestion Financia S.A., Antwerp, Belgium, notwithstanding the latter 

1051 
4/29/71 
- 2 -
holding of shares of Huisinvest N.V., also of Antwerp. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of Bank 
of Southern Maryland, La Plata, Maryland, and the issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision was authorized in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
First Banc Group of Ohio. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated March 24, 1971, and other pertinent papers, 
including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection with an 
application of First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Security Central National Bank 
of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Ohio. The staff and Reserve Bank recommenda-
tions had been favorable. 
Subsequently, a report was received from the 
Department of Justice concluding that the overall effect on competition 
would be adverse. 
In a memorandum dated April 16 the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation discussed the Department's findings and the appli-
cant's response, and with the concurrence of the Banking Markets Section 
reiterated the recommendation that the application be approved. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
an order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
Southwest Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated April 1, 1971, and other pertinent papers 

± G 5 £ 
4/29/71 
-3" 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Southwest 
Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of The First National 
Bank of Longview, Longview, Texas. A wholly-owned subsidiary of South-
west Bancshares owned minority stock interests in The Kilgore National 
Bank, Kilgore, Texas, as well as in The First National Bank of Longview, 
both of which banks were located in the same market area. 
It was the 
view of the Division and of the Banking Markets Section that acquisition 
by Southwest Bancshares of controlling interest in the Longview bank 
while maintaining a significant interest in the Kilgore bank would have 
an adverse effect on competition and would weigh for denial. 
However, 
Southwest Bancshares had indicated in writing its willingness to divest 
its interest in Kilgore National Bank, if required, and the staff recom-
mended approval conditioned upon such divestiture. The Legal Division, 
in a memorandum dated April 19, 1971, considered the legal issues involved; 
it recommended denial of the request of Southwest Bancshares for a two-
year period within which to divest. 
Governor Robertson stated that his preference would be to deny 
the application, without prejudice to resubmission after divestiture 
had been completed. 
In view of the firm offer to divest, the other members of the 
Board regarded the application favorably, and they considered the requested 
two-year period for divestiture a reasonable one. 
It was suggested,how-
ever, that Southwest be requested to submit periodic progress reports to 
the Reserve Bank. 

1 0 5 C 
4/29/71 
-4-
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson dissent-
ing, and it was understood that an appropriate order would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 
Commerce Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated April 23, 1971, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with an application of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of The Willard 
Bank, Willard, Missouri. The Division and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval, while the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City recom-
mended denial. 
The favorable recommendation of the Board's staff was considered 
in terms of possible precedent in view of the fact that the bank holding 
company presently controlled the second largest bank in the relevant 
banking market. Members of the staff expressed the view that no signif-
icant precedent would be established because Willard Bank, removed from 
the center of the market, was small and had limited competitive ability. 
Any adverse competitive effects were believed to be outweighed by the 
prospect of expanded and improved services to the Willard community. 
Governor Robertson stated that, while he could see some justifi-
cation for approving the application, he did not think it would be wise 
to permit the holding company to acquire a second market-area bank in a 
rapidly developing part of the market, thereby assuring itself of a 
sizable amount of prospective business. 

1051 
4/29/71 
-1057-
Other members of the Board placed emphasis on the small size of 
the bank to be acquired and suggested that this reasoning be communicated 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
The application was then approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an appropriate order would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration. 
Status of FNMA and other obligations. 
Section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve 
Banks, authorize a Reserve Bank to make advances to member banks secured 
by obligations eligible for Federal Reserve purchase under section 14(b) 
of the Act. The latter section authorizes Federal Reserve purchase of 
any obligation of, or fully guaranteed by, the United States or any 
agency thereof. At issue was the question whether the Federal National 
Mortgage Association, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation,and the 
United States Postal Service were agencies of the United States within 
the meaning of section 14(b). Question had also been raised regarding 
the eligibility of certificates issued by the Trustees of Penn Central 
Transportation Company that are fully guaranteed by the Secretary of 
Transportation. 
In a memorandum dated April 28, 1971, the Legal Division dis-
cussed the legal aspects of the question and recommended that the Board 
(1) amend its interpretation listing eligible obligations so as to include 
obligations of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and of the 

1058 
4/29/71 
-6-
United States Postal Service, (2) retain on that list obligations of 
FNMA, and (3) cite as eligible the guaranteed certificates issued by 
the Trustees of Penn Central Transportation Company. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft notice for publication in the Federal Register. 
At the beginning of discussion Mr. Sanders indicated that the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation proposed to submit to the Board 
a recommendation that the Board change its position with respect to the 
applicability of margin requirements to FNMA stock. 
He expressed the 
view that the issues involved in that proposal need not change the Legal 
Division's present recommendations. 
Question was raised as to an opinion of the Department of Justice 
that FNMA was not an agency of the United States for purposes of certain 
statutes relating to conflicts of interest. Mr. Hackley, who concurred 
in the Legal Division's analysis, summarized the rationale for the Justice 
Department's opinion and expressed the view that different conclusions 
for different purposes, given the circumstances, could be supported. 
It was noted that Mr. Hackley, as General Counsel of the Federal 
Open Market Committee, was preparing a memorandum on the eligibility of 
FNMA obligations for purchase in the open market. 
(Note: A copy of his 
memora ndum to the Committee dated April 29, 1971, has been placed in the 
files.) 

m 
105S 
4/29/71 
-7-
Following discussion, the Legal Division's recommendations were 
approved unanimously. A copy of the amended interpretation, as sub-
mitted to the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
-
1GGC 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
April 29, 1971 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 1 
4/29/71 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of January 8 and 
March 8, 1971, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to continue to hold a majority of the 
shares of Societe Hypothecarie et de Gestion Financia S.A. 
("FINANCIA"), Antwerp, Belgium, notwithstanding FINANCIAfs 
holding of all of the shares of Huisinvest N.V., Antwerp, 
Belgium, a real estate holding company. 
The above consent is granted on the condition 
that Huisinvest restrict its activities to holding land 
and premises occupied by companies in the FINANCIA group. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
"Kenneth A. Kenyon 
• Deputy Secretary 

1061 
Item No. 2 
4/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
' 
Baltimore, Maryland, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 
1 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
shares of Bank of Southern Maryland, 
1 
La Plata, Maryland. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Mercantile Banlcshares Corporation, 
Baltimore, Maryland ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
f°r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
the voting shares of Bank of Southern Maryland, La Plata, Maryland ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Maryland Commissioner 

1062 
- 2 -
of Banking and requested his views and recommendation, The Commissioner 
responded that he had no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 16, 1971 (36 Federal Register 5018), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factor s set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the only multi-bank holding company and sixth 
*argest banking organization in Maryland, controls three banks with 
a8grega te deposits of $229 million, representing 4.6 per cent of the 
total deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, 
adj 
usted to reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions 
aPproved by the Board through March 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of 
($23 million in deposits), Applicant would increase its share 
o f deposits to 5.1 per cent. 

12 
- 2 -
o 
o 
Bonk has the largest share of de^bsits in Its area of the 
four banks operating there, holding 37.9 per cent of area deposits. 
Two branches of the largest bank in the State hold 30.6 per cent of 
area deposits. The third largest share of deposits in the area, 
(21.1 per cent) is held by two branches of the seventh largest bank 
in the State (merger consummated in 1970). 
The fourth largest 
organization in the State has received permission to establish a 
branch in the county. Clearly Bank faces substantial competition 
from these other banks that are able to offer a full range of banking 
activities. The closest banking office of any subsidiary of Applicant 
to Bank is a branch office of Belair National Bank in Bowie, approx-
imately 33 miles north of La Plata. There appears to be no signifi-
cant competition between Bank and Belair National Bank or any other 
subsidiary of Applicant and, based on the facts of record, signifi-
cant competition is unlikely to develop. The Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have significant 
Averse effects on competition in any relevant area. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
Sources and future prospects, as they relate to Applicant, its 
subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of 
t h e application. Affiliation with Applicant would provide Bank with 
8reater depth in management and would alleviate a management succession 
pr°blem. Although the banking needs of the communities in Bank's 
ce area presently appear to be adequately served, affiliation 

with Applicant would enhance Bank's ability to offer additional 
services which are necessary in light of the changing Character 
of the area. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the communities in Bank's service area lend some support for 
approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 
4/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 1 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 100 ' 
per c«nt of the voting shares (less 1 
directors' qualifying shares) of 
1 
the successor by merger to The 
' 
Security Central National Bank of 
1 
Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Ohio, 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U,S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Banc Group of Ohio, 
Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of 
t h e voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to The Security Central National Bank of Ports-
mouth, Portsmouth, Ohio ("Security Bank"). 

1 0 6 G 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2429), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the lifted States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls eight banks with aggregate deposits 
°f approximately $604 million, representing 3.0 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits in Ohio. (All banking data are 
a s of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company acquisitions 
approved through 
March 31, 1971.) On the basis of deposits, 
Applicant is the seventh largest banking organization and the 
fourth largest bank holding company in the State. Upon consummation 

1067 
-3-
of the proposal, Applicant would increase its share of State-wide 
deposits by .3 percentage points but its rank among banking 
organizations in the State would be unchanged. 
Security Bank (deposits of $53 million) is the largest— 
on the basis of deposits—of the three banks in Scioto County, all 
of which are located in Portsmouth. (The proposed new bank into 
which Security Bank will be merged has significance only as a 
vehicle to accomplish the acquisition of all the voting shares of 
Security Bank; hence, the proposal to acquire voting shares of the 
successor by merger to Security Bank is treated as a proposal to 
acquire voting shares of Security Bank.) Security Bank controls 
about 55 per cent of the deposits in Scioto County, which approx-
imates the relevant market. Despite its size relative to the other 
Portsmouth banks, it appears that Security Bank does not dominate 
banking in the area. The second largest bank in the market is an 
affiliate of the largest bank holding company in the State, and the 
smallest bank has demonstrated that it is a viable and effective 
competitor, and has rejected an offer to affiliate with Applicant. 
It does not appear likely that Applicant's acquisition of Security 
Rank would have an undue adverse effect on the other Portsmouth banks. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank nearest to Security Bank 
l s located more than 80 miles north of Portsmouth. Security Bank 
draws no loans or deposits from the service area of that bank nor 
from the service area of any other bank subsidiary of Applicant. 

1068 
-4-
Applicant's lead bank draws a negligible amount of business from 
Scioto County, and none of Applicant's other subsidiary banks draws 
any business at all from Scioto County. On the facts of record, 
notably the restrictions in the branch banking law of Ohio, the 
number of banks intervening in the areas between Security Bank 
and each of Applicant's subsidiary banks, and the distances 
separating Security Bank from Applicant's present subsidiaries, 
there is little likelihood that any of Applicant's subsidiary 
banks would become competitors of Security Bank in the future. 
Moreover, economic conditions in Scioto County do not appear 
attractive for dje novo entry. Therefore, it appears that consumma-
tion of the proposal would not eliminate existing competition nor 
foreclose significant potential competition. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an 
undue adverse effect on competition in any relevant area. The 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Appli-
cant and each of its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory. 
Management of Security Bank apparently consists of two groups with 
conflicting viewpoints. Through ownership of Security Bank, 
Applicant proposes to establish unified management for the bank 
ai*d to provide for management succession. Applicant would also 
be able to inject new capital into the bank as it is needed, 
Therefore, considerations regarding the banking factors as they 

±068 
- 5 -
relate to Security Bank weigh in support of approval of the appli-
cation. Applicant proposes to improve and expand existing services 
of Security Bank and to enable it to offer international banking 
and other new services. Considerations regarding the convenience 
and needs of the communities are consistent with approval of the 
application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the Board's 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order, unless such time be extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, liaise I # and Sherrill, 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Briraner. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
i 

1070 
Item No. 4 
4/29/71 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDEPvAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. A] 
PART 201--ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS BY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Obligations Eligible as Collateral for Advances 
Section 201.108(b) is amended and subparagraphs 201.108(b)(16) 
and (17) are added as set forth below: 
§ 201.108 Obligations eligible as collateral for advances 
rt 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(b) Under section 14(b) direct obligations of, and obligations 
fully guaranteed as to principal and interest by, the United States are 
eligible for purchase by Reserve Banks. Such obligations include certifi-
cates issued by the trustees of Penn Central Transportation Company that 
are fully guaranteed by the Secretary of Transportation. Under section 14(b) 
direct obligations of, and obligations fully guaranteed as to principal and 
Interest by, any agency of the United States are also eligible for purchase 
by Reserve Banks. Following are the principal agency obligations eligible 
as collateral for advances, 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

1071 
- 2 -
(16) Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation notes, debentures, 
and guaranteed certificates of participation. 
(17) United States Postal Service obligations. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C, 347.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A.Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
