MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 5, 1969 

3310 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, November 5, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' Offices 
Director appointments. 
The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen, and Class C 
directors at Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors at 
Federal Reserve Bank branches, with the understanding that advice of the 
aPPointments would be sent to the respective appointees at an appropriate 
time and that public announcement would be made near the end of the year 
l n accordance with the usual practice. 
The following were reappointed as Class C directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1970: 

3 Oil 
11/5/69 
-2-
Name 
Bank 
Albert L. Nickerson 
Bayard L. England 
Albert G. Clay 
Robert W. Lawson, Jr. 
Emerson G. Higdon 
Sam Cooper 
David M. Lilly 
Willard D. Hosford, Jr. 
S. Alfred Halgren 
New York 
Philadelphia 
Cleveland 
Richmond 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
San Francisco 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1970: 
Name 
Branch 
Philip R. Shriver 
Lawrence E. Walkley 
Arnold J. Kleff, Jr. 
Henry K. Stanford 
Jake Hartz, Jr. 
John G. Beam 
William L. Giles 
Geo. T. Morse, Jr. 
W. A. Belcher 
Leiand D. Pratt 
Cincinnat i 
Pittsburgh 
Bait imore 
Jacksonville 
Little Rock 
Louisvi1le 
Memphis 
Houston 
San Antonio 
Los Angeles 
The following were reappointed as directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a two-year term 
beginning January 1, 1970: 
Name 
Branch 
Cris Dobbins 
C. W. Flint, Jr. 
A. James Ebel 
Frank Anderson 
Royden G. Derrick 
Denver 
Oklahoma City 
Omaha 
Portland 
Salt Lake City 
The following were designated as Chairmen and Federal Reserve 
Agents of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1970, 
with compensation fixed at an amount equal to the fees that would 
be payable to any other director of the same Bank for equivalent 
time and attendance to official business: 

3312 
11/5/69 
- 3 -
Name 
Bank 
James S. Duesenberry 
Boston 
Albert L. Nickerson 
New York 
Willis J. Winn 
Philadelphia 
Albert G. Clay 
Cleveland 
Wilson H. Elkins 
Richmond 
Edwin I. Hatch 
Atlanta 
Emerson G. Higdon 
Chicago 
Frederic M. Peirce 
St. Louis 
Robert F. Leach 
Minneapolis 
Dolph Simons 
Kansas City 
Carl J. Thomsen 
Dallas 
0. Meredith Wilson 
San Francisco 
The following were appointed as Deputy Chairmen of the Federal 
Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1970: 
Name 
Bank 
John M. Fox 
Boston 
James M. Hester 
New York 
Bayard L. England 
Philadelphia 
J. Ward Keener 
Cleveland 
Robert W. Lav/son, Jr. 
Richmond 
John C. Wilson 
Atlanta 
William H. Franklin 
Chicago 
Smith D. Broadbent, Jr. 
St. Louis 
David M. Lilly 
Minneapolis 
Wi 1lard D. Hosford, Jr. 
Kansas City 
Chas. F. Jones 
Dallas 
S. Alfred Halgren 
San Francisco 
It was agreed to ascertain through the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Banks whether the following persons would accept appointment, if 
tendered, as Reserve Bank or branch directors for the terms indicated, 
w U h the understanding that if it was found that they would accept, the 
aPPointments would be made: 
• 
I 
' . 
• 
' 
-
Edwin Deacon Etherington, President, Wesleyan University, 
Middletown, Connecticut, as a Class C director of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1970. 

u u l u 
11/5/69 
-4-
Morton Adams, General Manager of Pro-Fac Cooperative, 
Rochester, New York, as a director of the Buffalo 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for 
the three-year term beginning January 1, 1970. 
William M. Defoe, Chairman, Defoe Shipbuilding 
Company at Bay City, Bay City, Michigan, as a 
director of the Detroit Branch of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1970. 
Philip G. Hoffman, President, University of 
Houston, Houston, Texas, as a Class C director of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the three-
year term beginning January 1, 1970. 
(Secretary's Note: It was subsequently ascertained 
that Mr. Etherington would not be available for 
appointment. 
It having been ascertained that accep-
tances would be forthcoming, appointment telegrams 
were sent to Messrs. Adams, Defoe, and Hoffman.) 
The following persons then joined the meeting: 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 

3314 
11/5/69 
- 5 -
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administrat ion 
Other supporting staff 
Reports on competitive factors. 
The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Gallatin National 
Bank, Uniontown, Pennsylvania, with Blythe National Bank, also of 
Uniontown. 
The conclusion stated that the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
On November 4, 1969, the Board discussed but deferred action on a 
report that the Division of Supervision and Regulation had drafted, for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Twelve Mile State Bank, Twelve Mile, 
Indiana, into The National Bank of Logansport, Logansport, Indiana. 
The 
conclusion would state that the effect of the proposed merger would be 
slightly adverse. 
At today's meeting Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer 
indicated a preference for describing the competitive effect as adverse, 
for reasons given by the Banking Markets Section of the Division of 
Research and Statistics in a memorandum dated October 29, 1969. 
Chairman 
Martin and Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill believed that "slightly 
adverse" was the correct description, and in that form the report was 

S 3 jL5 
11/5/69 
- 6 -
First National Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated October 24, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of First National Corporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to 
acquire shares of The First National Bank of Seymour, Seymour, Wisconsin. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved, 
Governors Robertson and Maisel dissenting. 
It was understood that 
documents reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration, and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
United Virginia Bankshares. 
In a memorandum dated October 24, 
1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, 
Virginia, to acquire shares of The Peoples National Bank of Mannassas, 
Mannassas, Virginia (to be succeeded through merger by Manassas Bank, 
a proposed new bank). The Banking Markets Section of the Division 
Research and Statistics recommended denial in a memorandum dated 
October 1, 1969. 
After discussion at today's meeting the application was approved, 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood 
that documents reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration, and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
A number of staff members withdrew from the meeting at this 
Point. . 

3316 
11/5/69 
-7-
Bank mutual funds. The House Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
Committee had requested the Board's views on S. 2224, the Bulk of which 
was aimed at regulating the mutual funds industry. The provisions of the 
bill that were of the most concern to the Board were designed (1) to 
enable banks to establish and operate "collective funds" similar to 
ordinary mutual funds and (2) to regulate such activities of banks. A 
draft letter to respond to the Committee was attached to a memorandum 
dated October 23, 1969, in which the Legal Division commented on the 
provisions of the bill and the position taken by the Board in a report on 
a somewhat similar earlier proposal. 
After discussion at today's meeting the letter was approved 
unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Foreign time deposits. On October 8, 1969, the Board considered 
but deferred action on a proposal submitted by the Legal Division in a 
"' 
•.'*•'.. v ~. .. 
" v 
memorandum dated September 25 that would broaden the exemption from the 
interest rate limitations of Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, for 
certain time deposits of foreign and international entities. 
Exploration 
of questions raised led the Legal Division to present a revised form of 
the proposed amendment in a memorandum dated October 31. 
After discussion at today's meeting during which agreement was 
reached on a further change in the draft, the amendment was unanimously 
approved in the form attached as Item No. 2. 

3 
11/5/69 
-8-
VFCR. At the meetings on October 14 and 28, 1969, Governor 
Brimmer commented on his negotiations with other participant agencies 
looking toward agreement upon the structure of the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program for 1970. 
In a memorandum dated November 4 
he described the final form of the program that had emanated from 
conferences among the agencies. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer commented on details of the 
Program, after which the Board unanimously approved the 1970 guidelines 
for banks and other finanical institutions. Copies of the revised 
guidelines and of the press release announcing their adoption are 
attached under Item No. 3. 
The meetingthen adjourned. 
fry Secretary 
/ 

3313 
• ' ^ F L S S F E - 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
I
T
E
M 
N
O - 
1 
OP THE 
11/5/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S " E M 
'V'-Wrrrr'VYHi''1-- ' 
v ' M i
1 ' ' 
' 
W A s H 1 N G T O N 
•f^LRt**.' 
URT'-" 
• 
OFFICE: O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
The Honorable Harley 0. Staggers, Chairman, 
Committee on Interstate and Foreign Commerce, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman; 
This is in response to your Commit teeJs request for the 
Board s views on S. 2224, the proposed "Investment Company Amend-
ments Act of 19 69". The substance of our comments is applicable 
also to the bills H.R. 11995 and H.R. 12867. 
1, From the standpoint of bank supervision, the chief 
question of legislative policy presented by the. bill is whether 
it would be ID the public interest: for banks to establish and 
operate collective funds that would be similar to, and would, com-
pete with, mutual funds. Opponents of the proposal contend that 
pC'.rmii.ting banks to engage in this activity would constitute an 
undesirable departure from the policies of the Banking Act of 
1933 (the Glass-Steagall Act). 
• 
The Board continues to believe that the principle of 
separation cf commercial banking from investment banking, which 
was recognized by the Congress in the Banking Act of 1933, is a 
sound and significant one. This separation, we are convinced, 
avoids certain conflicts of interests that might impair the 
abii itv of commercial banks to devote themselves sint'ie-mindedlv 
to their primary function of serving their depositors, borrowers, 
correspondents, and trust accounts. 
It must be borne in mind, however, that the service 
which would be performed by banks, if their collective funds were 
made available to the general public as investment media, would 
he similar in many respects to services already performed by banks 
for their individual trust and agency accounts. Moreover, the 
purposes cf separating commercial banking frjm. investment banking 
are not significantly relevant to operations of the kind under 
discussion, for nhe following reasons, 
The principal dangers of combining operations in those 
two fields are that, if commercial banks were permitted to under-
write and deal in securities, (1) a bank might find itself holding, 
T «1! 
• 
m 

3 3 X 9 
The Honorable Barley 0. Staggers - 2-
either in Iti; underwriting department or in its investment portfolio, 
securities that are unsuitable for bank investment, and (2) a bank 
engaged in. underwriting and dealing might have undesirable oppor-
tunities and temptations to overreach its correspondent banks and 
other customers by selling to them unsuitable or overpriced securities 
it had acquired (or contracted to acquire) in its investment banking 
operations. 
When the nature and the anticipated mode of operation of 
banks1 collective funds are examined, however, it appears that neither 
of these hazards would be present co any significant extent. 
In the 
operation of collective funds, the bank itself does not become the 
owner of any securities; it receives and invests the funds of the 
participants. 
In other words, an essential element, of the dangers 
referred to - banks acquiring securities a<; underwriter or dealer -
simply is not present in connection with the operation of a collective 
fund. 
It might be contended, nevertheless, that a bank's manage-
ment of a collective fund would permit it :o "unload'1 on the fund 
poor investments that the bank had accumulated in its own portfolio, 
or to sell portfolio securities to the fund at inflated prices. 
The 
Board believes that these would not be real dangers, in view of pro-
visions of the securities laws and other limitations on banks7 selling 
assets to their own fiduciary accounts, the absence from banks 
portfolios of the kind of assets that collective funds purchase 
(principally corporate stocks), the existence of day-to-day market 
prices for most securities purchased by collective funds, and the 
controls and protection resulting from governmental supervision of 
banks' operations. 
Some who oppose bank operation of managing agency collective 
funds have advanced another possible drawback, somewhat related to 
the foxsigoinji. Banks occasionally make loans that prove difficult 
to collect because of the financial situation of the borrower. 
In 
such cases, it has been argued, a bank mignt use money of a collective 
fund to purchase a new issue of stock or other securities from the 
weak borrower, or even to make a direct loan to that borrower, in 
order to enable it to discharge its indebtedness to the bank. 
Although such conflicts of interest and consequent misconduct 
are not impossible, this area of risk does not appear to be significant 
For manv years banks have participated in the management of employee-
benefit fundj and other fiduciary accounts that hold stocks and other 
securities in an aggregate amount far exceeding those held by the 
entire mutual fund industry. The examinations conducted by bank 
supervisory agencies have disclosed practically no such misuse by 
banks of their investment advisory and management functions. 
In the 
case of managing agency funds, an additional safeguard is the 

o J i ^ U 
The Honorable Barley 0. Staggers - 3-
prophylactic restrictions and requirements of the Investment 
Company Act of 1940, particularly publicity of the financial 
transactions of registered investment companies, which almost in-
evitably would expose such malfeasance. A further deterrent would 
be the adverse impact on a collective fund's performance - its com-
parative financial record - if any of its resources were used to 
make unprofitable investments; the detrimental effect on sales cf 
participations might outweigh any benefits r.he bank could reason-
ably expect from its breach of fiduciary duty. 
On the basis of the experience described and the additional 
safeguards that exist in the mutual fund field, the Board believes 
that this alleged risk is negligible. 
The suggestion has also been advanced that bank operation 
of managing agency collective funds might, in certain circumstances, 
diminish banks1 prestige and even public confidence in the banking 
system. An individual who invested $10,000, for example, in such a 
fund would feel that he had sustained a $3,000 loss if the market 
value of the stock held by the fund fell 30 per cent in a declining 
market. 
It i.-> argued that this might be misunderstood (by persons 
who were not aware of the difference between bank deposits and 
mutual fund investments) -as indicating that, the bank was insolvent, 
and that undesirable consequences would result. 
Whether there would be a material risk along these lines 
is, of course, a matter of judgment as to the extent to which in-
vestors and tire banking public would be aware of the difference 
between (a) bank deposits and (b) investments in a diversified port-
folio of securities. The Board believes that this basic distinction-
is well understood by most of the persons who would be concerned. 
Moreover, Securities Act prospectuses, which must be furnished to 
persons to whom mutual fund shares are offered, call attention ex-
plicitly to the inevitable fluctuations in value - that is, the 
risk of loss as well as the opportunity for gain - as the market 
prices of the portfolio securities rise and fall. 
Another argument that has been advanced against bank entry 
into the mutual fund business is that banks enjoy advantages of con-
venience, prestige, and economies which would enable them, in time, 
to gain control of the mutual fund field to the virtual exclusion 
of non-bank competitors. 
But the Board considers it improbable, for 
reasons indicated below, that banks' collective investment funds 
would enjoy advantages which would exclude others from the business 
of establishing and maintaining mutual funds. 
Most of the billions of dollars that are invested annually 
in mutual fund shares are elicited from investors by brokers, dealers, 
or salesmen motivated by the commissions to be earned through selling 

O 
JL 
The Honorable Barley 0. Staggers - 4-
shares of "load" type funds. Under the terms of S. 2224, banksr 
managing agency funds in all cases would be of the "no-load" type 
(a restriction that the Board considers essential), • and the history 
of the industry indicates the unlikelihood that such funds would 
supplant mutual funds that have the benefits of commission-motivated 
selling efforts. 
(An analogous situation, in another field, is the 
limited sales of savings-bank life i usuranee, which has been avail-
able for many decades. Despite favorable rates, such insurance has 
not been a serious competitor in the life insurance field, perhaps 
because of the absence of aggressive efforts of agents eager to earn 
commissions.) Furthermore, an important factor affecting sales of 
mutual fund shares is their "performance" as measured by capital 
appreciation (that is, increase in the market value of the portfolio), 
and there is no present reason to believe that banks 
collective 
funds would excel those of their competitors in this respect. 
Participation by banks may yield valuable benefits in an 
industry that attracts the savings of millions of savers of limited 
means. Availability of such bank-operated investment media could 
be of service to those investors by providing (a) a means of perform-
ing a function, of a kind traditionally performed by banks2 trust 
departments, more efficiently and at less cost, (b) more competition 
for the funds of such investors, and (c) the opportunity to combine 
investment service and special fiduciary services when needed (a 
combination that is often less conveniently available when mutual 
fund shares constitute the investment vehicle). 
To recapitulate, the Board recognizes that the operation 
of collective funds by banks involves elements of risk. This is 
true, however, whenever banks - or other organizations - expand the 
services they offer. If the possibility of adverse consequences, 
however slight or remote, were regarded as sufficient ground for 
prohibiting such expansion of activities, regulated industries could 
not adapt Lo changed circumstances and the new needs and demands of 
our economy. 
In every such situation, the ultimate judgment consists 
of weighing risks against prospective benefits. With respect to the 
instant proposal, the Board of Governors concludes that the probable 
benefits to the public from increased competition are substantial 
and that the risks are relatively less significant. The Board there-
fore favors the objective of S. 2224 to authorize banks to establish 
and operate "no-load" investment funds substantially similar to 
conventional mutual funds. Our reasoning and conclusions are also 
applicable to collective investment by banks of retirement trusts 
for self-employed individuals (so-called "Smathers-Keogh trusts" or 
"H.R. 10 plans"). 
2. Under the proposed new section 22(h) of the Investment 
Company Act of 1940 (beginning on page 30, line 25, of S. 2224), 
bank mutual funds not only would be subject to the requirements and 

The Honorable Barley 0. Staggers - 5-
restrictions of that Act and the regulations of the SEC thereunder, 
but also would have to comply with "any applicable regulations of 
the Comptroller of the Currency". 
In addition, section 22(h) would 
provide that shares of bank mutual funds could be "sold only by 
officers and employees of banks . . . who met such standards with 
respect to training and experience as the Comptroller of the 
Currency . . . shall prescribe . . . . " 
The Board questions the advisability of authorizing two 
agencies of the Federal Government to regulate the securities aspects 
cf mutual funds maintained by banks. 
It seems clear to us that 
banks* mutual funds, as such, should be governed by a single Federal 
regulatory system - subject, of course, to the general supervision of 
State and Federal banking authorities from the standpoint of safe and 
sound operation. The Board believes that the applicable regulatory 
system should be that which governs mutual funds generally under the 
Federal securities laws, administered by the SEC. Accordingly, the 
Board recommerds amending the proposed section 22(h)(1) to delete the 
provision subjecting all bank mutual funds to regulations of the 
Comptroller. 
So amended, section 22(h)(1) would simply remove, insof 
as banks are concerned, any existing prohibitions cf Federal law with 
respect to 
"the creation or operation of a registered investment 
company, or a collective trust fund exempt from the def-
inition of "investment company1 under section 3(c)(11) 
of this title". 
3. The Board also recommends two other changes in the 
terms of the proposed new section 22(h). 
It is believed that with 
these changes the subsection will more effectively accomplish the 
billts objectives in this respect. 
(a) Instead of opening the way for a bank's "operation of a 
registered investment company" of any kind, it seems ad-
visable to confine such permission to "operation of a 
registered diversified open-end investment company". 
In Congressional consideration of this subject, the 
Board believes, it has been understood thau the bank-
operated investment companies are to be of the usual 
"mutual fund" type - that is, a diversified open-end 
investment company. Although it nay be unlikely that 
any bank would wish to operate any other type of invest-
ment company, it seems advisable to provide in the 
statute that investment companies operated by banks 
must be of the diversified mutual fund type. By re-
stricting banksr investment company activities to that 
field, Congress would diminish the possibility of ex-
cessive influence over other banks or corporations on 
the part of banks that operate mutual funds. 

The Honorable Barley 0. Staggers - 6-
(b) The proposed section 22(h) would permit banks to 
operate only investment companies itfhcse shares "are 
sold at a public offering price which does not in-
clude. a sales load.11 The purpose of this limitation, 
with which the Board agrees, is tc exclude banks from 
engaging in the aggressive selling efforts, including 
the use of services of brokers anc agents, that are 
usual in the sale of shares of "load" mutual funds. 
However, a similar situation might result from the 
'imposition of a substantial redemption fee, part or 
all of which could be used to compensate salesmen or 
brokers. Although existing provisions of the Invest-
ment Company Act of 1940 might prevent such a circum-
vention of the intended effect of the last clause of 
section 22(h), it seems advisable to be certain that 
bank mutual funds are free from either a sales load 
or a substantial redemption fee. The Board therefore 
reconmends that the provision on lines 15-16 on 
page 31 be amended to read as follows: 
":.f (i) such securities issued by such invest-
ment company are sold at a public offering 
price which does not include a sales load and 
(ii) any discount from net asset value charged 
on redemption of such securities does not ex-
ceed 1 per centum." 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Hartin, Jr. 

• _ 
•./•J'.w^t 
Item No. 2 
11/5/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANICINC 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217 —INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
1, Effective November 5, 1969, section 217.3(g) is amended 
to read ss follows; 
(g) Tine deposits of foreign governmental entities and 
international organisations» 
Section 217.7 does not apply to the 
rate of interest that may be paid by a member bank on a time deposit 
having a maturity of two years or less and representing funds 
de 
posited and cwned by (!) a foreign government, or an agency or 
instrumentality thereof engaged principally in activities which are 
ordinarily performed in the United States by governmental entities, 
(2) an international entity of which the United States is a member, 
(3) any other foreign, international, or supranational entity 
specifically designated by the Board as exempt from 217.7* 
All 
certificates of deposit issued by member banks to,such entities on 
which the contract rate of interest exceeds the maximum prescribed 
under § 217.7 shall p?;ovide that (1) in the event of transfer, the 
date of transfer, attested to in writing by the transfer 
or u stia 11 
appear on the certificate, and (2) the maximum rate limitations 
5 217.7 in effect at the date of issuance of the certificate 

shall apply to the certificate for any period during which it is 
held by a person other than an entity exempt therefrom under the 
6/ 
foregoing sentence."*" 
Upon the presentment or such a certificate 
for payment, the bank may pay the holder the contract rate of 
interest on the deposit for the time that the certificate was 
actually owned by ari entity so exempt. 
2. Section 217*12tfof this Part is hereby revoked. 
3a«; The purposes of this amendment are (1) to expand the 
categories of organizations on whose time deposits member banks may 
pay rates of interest in excess of those permitted by § 217.7, and 
(2) to provide an alternative method by which an exempt organization 
may transfer a certificate of deposit to a no.nexempt holder. 
Formerly, 
a time deposit of a foreign government, a monetary or financial author-
ity of a foreign government when acting as such, or an international 
financial institution of which the United States is a member was 
exempt from the interest rate limitations of 3.217,7* A broadening of 
the categories of exempt organizations is consistent with the purposes 
6 217.3(g) •• to encourage the maintenance of foreign governmental 
time deposits in American banks. An alternative method of transferring 
6/ A new certificate not maturing prior to the maturity date of the 
original certificate may be issued by the member bank to the trans-
feree .j in which event the original must be retained by the bank. 
The new certificate may not provide for interest after the date of 
transfer at a rate in excess of the applicable maximum rate autho-
rized by $ 217.7 as of the date of issuance cf the original certifi-
cate. 

to a nonexerapt holder a certificate of deposit: issued to an exempt 
organization is included in footnote 6 0 The alternative method 
provides the same safeguards as the method heretofore prescribed 
by 5 217.3(g). 
V 
b. The procedures of section 553(b) Title 5, United 
States Codej with respect to notice, public participation, and 
deferred effective date were not followed in connection with this 
amendment* 
The alternative method of transfer is procedural in 
nature and involves no substantive change, The revision of the 
categories of exempt organisations is a liberalization resulting 
in the relaxation of their restrictive nature, In these circum-
stances , the Board found such procedures to te unnecessary and 
contrary to the public interest. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 5, 1969. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert l\ Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 3 
11/5/69 
December 17, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a revision in guidelines that U.S. banks and other 
financial institutions have been asked to follow in order to limit 
increases in loans and investments abroad. 
The revised guidelines continue the program of voluntary 
restraints in effect since 1965. However, in keeping with the Govern-
ment's efforts to help stimulate U.S. exports, the guidelines are 
changed to give greater and more explicit recognition to the estab-
lished priority for export financing. The Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program is one of several elements in the Government's over-
all effort, which also includes the Interest Equalization Tax and the 
Foreign Direct Investment Control Program, to strengthen the U.S. 
balance-of-payments position. 
Under the revised program, each bank is to have a ceiling 
exclusively for loans of one year or longer that finance U.S. goods 
exported on or after December 1. This Export Term-Loan Ceiling is to 
be separate from a General Ceiling that will be available for loans of 
any type and of any maturity. 
Under the new program, the aggregate General Ceiling of banks 
currently reporting to the Federal Reserve Board will be $10.1 billion, 
and the Export Term-Loan Ceiling for these banks will be about $1.3 
billion, for a total ceiling of $11.4 billion. Aggregate ceilings 
under the previous guidelines were $10.1 billion. As of the end of 

3328 
-2-
October, the latest date for which data are available, the 165 
reporting banks were approximately $1 billion below their ceilings. 
The guidelines for nonbank financial institutions, such as 
insurance companies and pension funds, continue to provide for a 
single ceiling. However, an institution may exceed its ceiling 
moderately if the excess reflects new export credits which could not 
be accommodated under its ceiling. In addition, an institution that 
has had either a low ceiling, or none at all, may now hold certain 
covered foreign assets up to a total of $500,000. 
The effective date for these changes in both the bank and 
nonbank provisions is December 1. 
Governor Andrew F. Brimmer, the Board member charged with 
administering the program, explained that the modifications have two 
objectives. The first aim, in accordance with the Government's 
effort to promote exports, is to direct greater attention to the 
existing priority for export financing, particularly for long-term 
export loans, within the limits of total lending restraints. 
The 
second aim is to enhance the opportunities among U.S. financial insti-
tutions to compete for foreign lending business. 
Under the revised program, a participating bank will have a 
General Ceiling equal to its old lending ceiling which can be used for 
any type and maturity of foreign loans. Each participating bank will 
also have an Export Term-Loan Ceiling equal to one half of 1 per cent 
of its end-of-1968 total assets which can be used for term loans to 
finance new U.S. exports. 

- 3 - 
o 
Jx.VS 
The definition for these export term loans is the same 
as the definition banks have been using in reports to the Treasury 
Department on loans and commitments in connection with the Interest 
Equalization Tax. Essentially these are loans, for one year or 
longer and each of $250,000 or more, for U.S. exports of goods and 
for services performed abroad by U.S. firms. Any such loans granted 
for goods shipped, or services performed, after November 30, 1969, 
will be counted against a bank's Export Term-Loan Ceiling or, if the 
bank wishes, against its General Ceiling. 
By setting a separate category for long-term export loans 
and asking that, even among short-term loans, banks continue to give 
priority to export financing, the revised guidelines should ensure 
fchat a greater amount -- and proportion -- of U.S. bank loans to 
foreigners will be used to finance the purchase of U.S. goods and 
services. Similarly, by providing that General Ceilings be reduced, 
and Export Term-Loan Ceilings increased, by repayment of presently out-
standing export term-loans, the guidelines would preserve the lending 
leeway for export financing. 
Utilization of total assets of banks as a base for com-
puting the new export credit ceiling will make the foreign credit 
restraint program more equitable in its treatment of banks. 
Since 
1965, the program has tended to freeze the pattern of foreign lending 
among banks. The guidelines for the larger banks have been based 
the amount of foreign loans the banks held at the end of 1964. 
Ihe ceilings for smaller banks, however, have been a percentage of 

3330 
-4-
their total assets. Now total assets, which are not directly related 
to the relative standings of banks in the foreign loan field, will be 
used for calculating the Export Term-Loan Ceilings of all banks. 
Under the new program, banks which had no ceilings under 
previous guidelines may qualify for lending ceilings through applica-
tion to the Federal Reserve Bank in their District. These ceilings 
are to be used predominantly for export financing. 
Funds of all types advanced to residents of Canada continue 
to be exempted from the program. Canada has been exempted since the 
end of February, 1968, when the Canadian Government took steps to 
ensure that Canadian financial institutions would not serve as a "pass 
through" for U.S. funds. Banks and other financial institutions are 
asked again to give priority to developing countries for loans and 
investments under the ceilings. As in the past, loans that are guaranteed 
or participated in by the Export-Import Bank, guaranteed by the Depart-
ment of Defense, or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association 
are exempted from the ceilings. The exemption for long-term investments 
in Japan by nonbank financial institutions will not apply to investments 
made after this year but will continue for investments already held. 
Governor Brimmer reported that, during the first ten months 
of 1969, the banks have reduced their foreign assets covered by the pro-
gram by $138 million. 
In 1968, there was a net inflow of $612 million, 
compared with a suggested reduction of $400 million. In the third 
quarter of this year, a reduction in foreign assets more than offset a 
substantial outflow which occurred in the second quarter. 

3331 
-5-
At the end of October, 
1969, the banks' covered assets, at 
$9.1 billion, were almost $400 million below the amount of such assets 
outstanding on the base date, December 31, 1964. 
A copy of the revised guidelines is attached. Copies will 
be made available to financial institutions through the Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
-0-
Attachment 

3332 
December 17, 1969. 
Revised Guidelines for Banks 
and Nonbank Financial Institutions 
General Purpose 
In order to help to strengthen the U.S. balance of payments, 
U.S. financial institutions are asked to continue to restrain their 
foreign loans and investments and, within the limits of the restraints, 
t o give priority to financing U.S. exports of goods and services and to 
meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Banks 
A. 
Ceilings 
1. Banks with ceilings under previous guidelines 
A bank that had a foreign lending ceiling under the Federal 
Reserve foreign credit restraint guidelines in existence on 
November 30, 1969 (hereafter "previous guidelines") will have, 
under the present revised guidelines, a General Ceiling and 
an Export Term-Loan Ceiling. The General Ceiling will be 
available for foreign claims of any type and maturity, in-
cluding Export Term Loans; subject to the definitions and 
other conditions set forth below, the Export Term-Loan 
Ceiling will be available solely for foreign export term 
loans. 

' J o') ") 
u a u u 
- 2 -
a. General Ceiling 
i) The General Ceiling will be equal to the bank's 
adjusted ceiling as of November 30, 1969. 
ii) A bank should not at any time hold claims on foreigners 
in excess of its General Ceiling, except for the claims 
which it reports under its separate Export Term-Loan 
Ceiling described in section A-l-b, below, 
iii) Within its General Ceiling, a bank should give priority 
to credits financing exports of U.S. goods and services 
and to credits meeting the needs of developing countries. 
b. Export Term-Loan Ceiling 
i) The Export Term-Loan Ceiling will be equal to 0.5 per 
cent of the bank's total assets as of December 31, 1968. 
ii) A bank should not at any time hold claims on foreigners 
that are export term loans, as defined in section G-3, 
below, to finance goods exported from the United States 
after November 30,1969, or to finance services performed 
in foreign countries by U.S. individuals or U.S. firms 
after November 30, 1969 , in excess of the bank's Export 
Term-Loan Ceiling, except such export term loans as the 
bank counts against its General Ceiling, described in 
section A-l-a, above. 

- 3 -
3334 
2• Banks without ceilings under previous guidelines 
A bank that has not had a foreign lending ceiling under the 
previous guidelines may discuss with the Federal Reserve Bank 
in its District the possibility of adopting a General Ceiling 
and an Export Term-Loan Ceiling. 
In determining whether and, 
if so, in what amount, ceilings should be established, there 
should be clear reason for expecting that the bank will use 
such ceilings predominantly for short- and long-term export 
loans. Any General Ceiling, and any Export Term-Loan Ceiling 
should not, in the aggregate, exceed 1 per cent of the bank's 
total assets as of December 31, 1968. 
3. Western Europe 
a. Ceiling adjustment for prior term loans. A bank each 
month should reduce its General Ceiling by the dollar 
amount of any repayments it receives on nonexport loans 
to residents of developed countries of continental 
Western Europe outstanding on December 31, 1967. 
b. Restraint on new nonexport term loans. A bank should not 
make new term loans to such residents, except loans that 
qualify as Export Term Loans. 
c. Short-term credits. A bank should hold the amount of 
short-term credits (having an original maturity of not 
over one year) to such residents to not more than 75 per 
cent of the amounts of such credits outstanding on 
December 31, 1967. 

U'33i) 
- 4 -
Adjustment for Prior Export Term Loans. 
A bank each month should reduce its General Ceiling, and should 
increase its Export Term-Loan Ceiling, by the dollar amount of 
any repayments it receives on Export Term-Loans outstanding on 
November 30, 1969. 
Sales of Foreign Assets 
a. Sales without recourse. A bank that sells a foreign claim 
that is subject to the guideline ceilings, without recourse, 
(a) to a U.S. resident other than a financial institution 
participating in the Federal Reserve foreign credit restraint 
program or a direct investor subject to the controls admin-
istered by the Department of Commerce or (b) to the Export-
Import Bank should reduce its General Ceiling or its Export 
Term-Loan Ceiling,whichever is relevant, by an equivalent 
amount. 
b. Sales with recourse. A bank that sells a foreign asset, 
with recourse, to a U.S. resident other than a financial 
institution participating in the Federal Reserve foreign 
credit restraint program or to a direct investor subject 
to the Foreign Direct Investment Program administered by 
the Department of Commerce should continue to report 
those assets under its General Ceiling or its Export 
Term-Loan Ceiling, as appropriate. 
Total Assets 
For the purpose of calculating»the Export Term-Loan Ceiling, 
total assets are those shown in the Official Report of Condi-
tion submitted to the relevant supervisory agency as of 
December 31, 1968. 

3 3 3 6 
- 5 -
Exclusion 
1. Canada 
a. No restraint. 
These guidelines are not to restrain the 
extension of credit to residents of Canada. 
b. 
Reporting. 
For the purpose of reporting claims under the 
General Ceiling, a bank should count against its General 
Ceiling claims on residents of Canada outstanding on 
February 29, 1968, deducting any net increase in such claims 
granted after that date and adding any net reduction in 
such claims granted after that date. 
2. Certain Guaranteed and Insured Loans 
Loans to finance U.S. exports that are guaranteed, or partici-
pated in, by the Export-Import Bank, or guaranteed by the De-
partment of Defense, or are insured by the Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association are exempted from the General Ceiling 
and the Export Term-Loan Ceiling. 
Temporary Overages 
A bank whose claims on foreigners are in excess of either or both 
of its ceilings and which does not show improvements will be 
invited periodically to discuss with the Federal Reserve Bank in 
its District the steps it has taken and that it proposes to take 
to bring the amount of its claims under the ceilings. 

3337 
- 6 -
App1icab11ity to Financial Institutions 
1. Genera 1 
The guidelines are applicable to all U.S. banks (exclusive 
of the trust departments of commercial banks, which should 
follow the guidelines for nonbank financial institutions in 
Part III, below) and to "Edge Act" and "Agreement" Corpora-
tions. 
2. Edge Act and Agreement Corporations 
a. Policy of limiting aggregate ceilings. 
It is intended 
that the establishment of new Edge Act Corporations or 
new Agreement Corporations not result in the expansion 
of aggregate lending ceilings under these guidelines. 
b. One-bank owned Corporations. 
An Edge Act or Agreement 
Corporation that is owned by one bank and that, under 
previous guidelines, had a ceiling separate from that 
of its parent bank may continue to be guided by General 
and Export Term-Loan Ceilings separate from those of its 
parent or may combine its foreign loans and investments 
with the respective General and Export Term-Loan Ceilings 
of its parent. The General Ceiling and the Export Term-
Loan Ceiling to which it would be entitled if it did not 
combine would be calculated as under section A-l, above, 
on the basis of the Corporation's total assets and its 
adjusted ceiling under previous guidelines. 
An Edge Act 
or Agreement Corporation that is owned by one bank and that 
was established after March 3, 1965 should share the 
General and Export Term-Loan Ceilings of its parent bank. 

- 7 -
3338 
c. Multi-bank owned Corporations. 
i) Separate Ceilings. An Edge Act or Agreement Corpor-
ation that is owned by more than one bank or by a 
registered bank holding company will have a General 
Ceiling and an Export Term-Loan Ceiling separate 
from those of its parents. The Corporation's 
General Ceiling and Export Term-Loan Ceilings are 
each to be equal, respectively, to 100 per cent and 
10 per cent of its adjusted ceiling as of November 30, 
1969. 
ii) Transfer of Parent's Ceiling. To acquire or to in-
crease ceilings, such an Edge Act or Agreement Corpor-
ation may receive from one or more of its parent banks 
a share of the ceilings of the parent or parents. 
Once 
transferred to the Corporation, the ceilings should 
not be transferred back to the parent or parents, ex-
cept to meet unforeseen and overriding developments. 
If any such exceptional need for retransfer should 
arise, the Corporation and its parent or parents 
should consult in advance with the Federal Reserve Bank 
in their respective Districts. 
3. Bank Holding Companies 
a. Registered bank holding companies. A 
registered bank 
holding company is to be treated as a bank for the pur-
pose of these guidelines. 

- 8 -
b. One-bank holding companies. 
A one-bank holding company 
whose bank subsidiary has ceilings under these guidelines 
is to be treated as a bank for the purpose of these 
guidelines. 
Such a holding company, together with its 
bank subsidiary and any nonbank subsidiary, should report 
on a consolidated basis. 
However, the General Ceiling and 
the Export Term-Loan Ceiling, respectively, are to be calcu-
lated on the basis of the ceiling of the bank subsidiary 
under the previous guidelines and on the basis of the bank 
subsidiary's total assets. 
Furthermore, to minimize changes 
from earlier established procedures, any nonbank subsidiary 
that was reporting prior to December 1, 1969, to the De-
partment of Commerce under the Foreign Direct Investment 
Program or to a Federal Reserve Bank under the nonbank 
financial institution guidelines should not report under 
these bank guidelines. 
c. Consolidation of subsidiaries' ceilings. 
A bank subsidiary 
(including a bank, Edge Act Corporation, or Agreement Cor-
poration) of a registered bank holding company may consoli-
date its General Ceiling and Export Term-Loan Ceiling with 
the respective ceilings of one or more of the holding 
company's other bank subsidiaries which had ceilings under 
previous guidelines. 
4. Foreign Branches of U.S. Banks 
a. The guidelines are not designed to restrict the extension 
of foreign credits by foreign branches of U.S. banks if 

•v." 
33 10 
- 9 -
the funds utilized are derived from foreign sources and 
do not add to the outflow of capital from the United States, 
b. Total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its foreign 
branches (including permanent capital invested in, as well 
as balances due from, such branches) represent bank credit 
to foreigners for the purposes of the program. 
E. Conformity with Objectives of Guidelines 
1. Department of Commerce Program and Nonbank Financial Institu-
tion Guidelines 
Banks should avoid making loans that would directly or 
indirectly enable borrowers to use funds abroad in a 
manner inconsistent with the Department of Commerce 
program or with the guidelines for nonbank financial 
institutions. 
2. Substitute Loans 
Banks should not extend to U.S.-resident subsidiaries, or 
branches,of foreign companies loans that otherwise might 
\ 
have been made by the banks to the foreign parent or 
other affiliate 
of the company or that normally would 
have been obtained abroad. 
3. Management of Liquid Assets 
A bank should not place its own funds abroad (other 
than in Canada) for short-term investment purposes, 
whether such investments are payable in foreign cur-
rencies or in U.S. dollars. 
Banks need not, however, 
reduce necessary working balances held with foreign 
correspondents. 

3341 
- 10 -
4. Transactions for Customers 
While recognizing that it must follow a customer's 
instruction, a bank should discourage customers from 
placing liquid funds outside the United States, except 
in Canada. A bank should not place with a customer 
foreign obligations that, in the absence of the guide-
lines, it would have acquired or held for its own 
account. 
5. 
U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks 
Branches and agencies of foreign banks located in the 
United States are requested to act in accordance with 
the spirit of these guidelines. 
Reporting 
Each bank that has ceilings under these guidelines and that on 
a reporting date had $500,000 or more in foreign claims should 
file a Monthly Report on Foreign Claims with the Federal Reserve 
Bank in the District in which the bank is located. 
(Forms are 
available at the Federal Reserve Banks.) 
Definitions 
1. "Foreigners" include: 
individuals, partnerships, and corpora-
tions domiciled outside the United States, irrespective of 
citizenship, except their agencies or branches located within 
the United States; branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates of 
i 

U.S. banks and other U.S. corporations that are located in 
foreign countries; and any government of a foreign country 
or official agency thereof and any official international 
or regional institution created by treaty, irrespective of 
location. 
"Claims on foreigners" are claims on foreigners held for a 
bank's own account. They include: 
foreign long-term securi-
ties; foreign customers' liability for acceptances executed, 
whether or not the acceptances are held by the reporting 
banks; deferred payment letters of credit described in the 
Treasury Department's Supplementary Reporting Instructions 
No. 1, Treasury Foreign Exchange Reports, Banking Forms, 
dated May 10, 1968; participations purchased in loans to 
foreigners; loans to financial subsidiaries incorporated 
in the United States, 50 per cent or more of which is owned 
by foreigners; and foreign assets sold, with recourse, to 
U.S. residents other than financial institutions partici-
pating in the Federal Reserve credit restraint program or 
direct investors subject to the controls administered by 
the Commerce Department. 
"Claims on foreigners" exclude: 
contingent claims; unutilized credits; claims held for 
account of customers; acceptances executed by other U.S. 
banks; and, in the manner determined in section B-l-b 
above, claims on residents of Canada. 

- 12 -
3343 
An Export Term Loan is a loan of which a U.S. commercial bank 
would have to notify the Treasury Department under that Depart-
ment's Interest Equalization Tax reporting requirements being 
applied on December 1, 1969, concerning loans, or commitments, 
to foreign obligors. 
In summary, such loans include or ex-
clude the following. They include credits of an original 
maturity of one year or more and of an amount of $250,000 or 
more to a foreign obligor for U.S. goods exported or for U.S. 
services performed abroad. The loans may be made directly 
by a bank or may be made indirectly by a bank through its 
purchase of documented loan paper. For the purpose of the 
present guidelines, such loans that are to be counted against 
the Export Term-Loan Ceiling are confined to credits fi-
nancing U.S. exports shipped after November 30, 1969, or 
services performed abroad by U.S. individuals or U.S. firms 
after November 30, 1969. The loans exclude debt obligations 
acquired by a bank and having less than a year of remaining 
term until maturity (regardless of original length of 
maturity). 
The loans also exclude Export-Import Bank 
certificates of participation in a pool of loans. 
(Participations with the Export-Import Bank in particular 
loans and loan paper purchased from the Export-Import Bank 
of foreign obligors are exempted under section II-B-2, 
above.) It should be noted that, in accordance with IET 

- 13 -
3344 
usage, Export Term-Loans have a maturity of one year or more, 
whereas, as used elsewhere in these guidelines, term loans 
of other types have a maturity of more than one year and, 
conversely, short-term credits have a maturity of one year 
or less. 
4. Developing countries are all countries other than: Abu Dhabi, 
Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bermuda, 
Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic), Hong Kong, 
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia 
Neutral Zone, Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Nether-
lands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of South 
Africa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, 
and the United Kingdom; and other than: Albania, Bulgaria, 
the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, 
i 
Hungary, Communist-controlled Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Outer 
Mongolia, Poland (including any area under its provisional 
administration), Rumania, Soviet Zone of Germany and the 
Soviet sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics and the Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, and 
areas in East Prussia that are under the provisional admin-
istration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and 
Communist-controlled Vietnam. 

- 14 -
III. Nonbank Financial Institutions 
A. Types of Institutions Covered 
The group of institutions covered by the nonbank guidelines 
includes: 
trust companies; trust departments of commercial banks; 
mutual savings banks; insurance companies; investment companies; 
finance companies; employee retirement and pension funds; college 
endownment funds; charitable foundations; the U.S. branches of 
foreign insurance companies and of other foreign nonbank financial 
corporations; and holding companies (other than bank holding 
companies) whose domestic assets consist primarily of the stock 
of operating nonbank financial institutions. 
Investment under-
writing firms, securities brokers and dealers, and investment 
counseling firms also are covered with respect to foreign 
financial assets held for their own account and are requested to 
inform their customers of the program in those cases where it 
appears applicable. Businesses whose principal activity is the 
leasing of property and equipment, and which are not owned or 
controlled by a financial institution, are not defined as financial 
institutions. 
B. Ceiling and Priorities 
Each institution is requested to limit its aggregate holdings of 
foreign assets covered by the program to no more than 100 per cent of 
the adjusted amount of such assets held on December 31, 1967, except 
for special situations discussed in K below. 
Institutions generally are expected to hold no foreign deposits 
or money market instruments (other than Canadian). 
However, an 
institution may maintain such minimum working balances abroad as are 
needed for the efficient conduct of its foreign business activities. 

3346 
15 -
Among other foreign assets that are subject to the guideline 
ceiling, institutions are asked to give first priority to credits 
that represent the bona fide financing of U. S. exports, and second 
priority to credits to developing countries. 
In addition, institutions 
are requested not to increase the total of their investments in the 
developed countries of continental Western Europe beyond the amount 
held on December 31, 1968, except for new credits that are judged to 
be essential to the financing of U. S. exports. This means that 
reductions through amortizations, maturities, or sales may be offset 
by new acquisitions in these countries. 
However, institutions are 
expected to refrain from offsetting proceeds of sales to other 
Americans by new acquisitions from foreigners. 
Institutions may invest in noncovered foreign assets generally 
as desired. However, they are requested to refrain from making any 
loans and investments, noncovered as well as covered, which appear 
to be inconsistent with other aspects of the President's balance of 
payments program. Among these are the following: 
1. Noncovered credits under this program that substitute directly 
for loans that commercial banks would have made in the absence 
of that part of the program applicable to them. 
2. Noncovered credits to developing country subsidiaries of U. S. 
corporations that would not have been permitted under the Department 
of Commerce program if made by the U. S. parent directly. 
3. Credits to U. S. corporate borrowers that would enable them to 
make new foreign loans and investments inconsistent with the 
Department of Commerce program. 

- 
L 6 
-
4. Credits to U. S. subsidiaries and branches of foreign companies 
that otherwise would have been made to the foreign parent, or 
that would substitute for funds normally obtained from foreign 
sources. 
3. Covered Assets 
Covered foreign financial assets, subject to the guideline 
ceiling, include the following types of investments, except for 
"free delivery" items received after December 31, 1967: 
1. Liquid funds in all foreign countries other than Canada. 
This 
category comprises foreign bank deposits, including deposits in 
foreign branches of U. S. banks, and liquid money market claims on 
foreign obligors, generally defined to include marketable 
negotiable instruments maturing in 1 year or less. 
2. All other claims on non-Canadian foreign obligors written, at 
date of acquisition, to mature in 10 years or less. This category 
includes bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, and other credits. 
Excluded are bonds and notes of international institutions of which 
the United States is a member, regardless of maturity. 
Excluded 
also are loans guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import 
Bank, guaranteed by the Department of Defense, or insured by the 
Foreign Credit Insurance Association. 
3. Net financial investment in foreign branches, subsidiaries 
and affiliates, located in developed countries other than 
1/ 
Canada.— 
Such financial investment includes payments into 
See Note on p. 22. 

3348 
- 17 -
equity and other capital accounts of, and net loans and advances 
to, any foreign businesses in which the U. S. institution has 
an ownership interest of 10 per cent or more. Excluded are 
earnings of a foreign affiliate if they are directly retained in 
the capital accounts of the foreign business. 
4. Long-term credits of foreign obligors domiciled in developed 
countries other than Canada.-^ 
Included in this category 
are bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, and other credits matur-
ing more than 10 years after date of acquisition. 
Excluded 
are bonds of international institutions of which the United 
States is a member. 
5. Equity securities of foreign corporations domiciled in 
developed countries other than C a n a d a , e x c e p t those acquired 
after September 30, 1965, in U.S. markets from American in-
vestors. The test of whether an equity security is covered 
will depend on the institution's obligation to pay the Interest 
Equalization Tax on acquisition. 
Exclusion from covered assets 
under this program normally will be indicated when, in acquiring 
an equity security that otherwise would be covered, the purchas-
ing institution receives a certificate of prior American owner-
ship, or brokerage confirmation thereof. 
D. Base-Date Holdings 
Base-date holdings for any reporting date after September 30, 
1969, are defined as: 
1. Total holdings of covered foreign assets as of the base date, 
which is December 31, 1969 
for investments in Japan of the 
types described in C (3), (4), and (5) above, and December 31, 
1967 for all other covered assets; 
See Note on p. 22. 

- 18 -
2. Minus, equity securities of companies domiciled in developed 
countries (except Canada), that are included in (1) but had 
been sold to American investors prior to the current quarter; 
3. Plus, or minus, the difference between sales proceeds and 
"carrying" value of covered equities sold prior to the current 
quarter to other than American investors or in other than U. S. 
markets. 
On each reporting date, "carrying" value should 
be the value reflected in the institution's report (on 
Form FR 392R-68) for December 31, 1967, in the case of equities 
held on that date, and it should be cost in the case of equities 
purchased after that date. 
"Adjusted" base-date holdings, to which the 100 per cent ceiling 
applies, are equal to "base-date" holdings as defined above ad-
justed for sales during the current quarter of included covered 
equities in accordance with the procedures specified in (2) and 
(3) of the preceding paragraph. 
Noncovered Assets 
Foreign financial assets not covered by the guidelines are still 
reportable on the quarterly statistical reports to the Federal Reserve 
Banks. Such noncovered foreign investments include the following: 
1. All financial assets in, or claims on residents of, the Dominion 
of Canada. 
2. Bonds and notes of international institutions of which the 
United States is a member, regardless of maturity. 

- 19 - 
O J 
HJ 
3. Long-term investments in all developing countries, in-
cluding credit instruments with final maturities of more 
than 10 years at date of acquisition, direct investment in 
subsidiaries and affiliates, and all equity securities issued 
by firms domiciled in these countries. 
4. Equity securities of firms in developed countries other than 
Canada that have been acquired in U.S. markets from American 
investors (see Point 5 above). 
Foreign assets of types covered by the program and acquired as 
"free delivery" items—that is, as new gifts or, in the case of 
trust companies or trust departments of commercial banks, in new 
accounts deposited with the institution--are not defined as 
covered assets 
if they were acquired after December 31, 1967. 
Such assets should be reported as a memorandum item, as should 
outstanding amounts of loans guaranteed or participated in 
by the Export-Import Bank, guaranteed by the Department of 
Defense, 
or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance 
Association. 
Credits to Certain U. S. Corporations 
Any loan or investment acquired by a nonbank financial institution 
after June 30, 1968, that involves the advance of funds to a domestic 
corporation which is simply a financing conduit (commonly known as a 
"Delaware sub"), and which in turn will transmit the funds to a 
foreign business, should be reported as a foreign asset if one or more 
foreigners own a majority of the "Delaware" corporation. The amounts 
of such foreign loans or investments should be classified according to 
the country where the funds are actually to be used, not according 

- 20 -
to the residence of the owners of the "Delaware"corporation. 
In the event that U. S. residents hold a majority ownership 
interest in the "Delaware" corporation, no part of a loan or invest-
ment in such a corporation is to be regarded as a foreign asset of the 
institution. 
Leasing of Physical Goods 
The foreign leasing activities of firms which engage 
primarily 
in the leasing of physical assets (e.g., computers, real property, 
ships, aircraft), and which are not owned or controlled by a U. S. 
financial institution, are not reportable under the nonbank program. 
However, such activities are reportable when they are undertaken by 
nonbank financial institutions. These institutions should report the 
book value of any physical assets leased to foreigners on the 
appropriate line of the quarterly form they file with their Federal 
Reserve Bank. 
Investment in Certain Foreign Insurance Ventures 
Net investment in foreign insurance ventures should be reported 
as such wherever possible. 
In the case of any such ventures in which 
there is no segregated net investment, the U. S. insurance company may 
exclude from its foreign assets investments within the foreign country 
involved, in amounts up to 110 per cent of reserves accumulated on 
insurance sold to residents of that country, or (if it is larger) the 
minimum deposit of cash or securities required as a condition of doing 
insurance business within that country. 
Long-Term Credits to Developing-Country Businesses 
Institutions are requested to discuss with their Federal 
Reserve Bank in advance any future long-term loans or direct security 

placements that would involve extensions of credit of $500,000 or 
more to private business borrowers located in the developing 
countries. 
Reporting Requirement 
Each nonbank financial institution holding, on any quarterly 
reporting date, covered assets of $500,000 or more, or total foreign 
financial assets of $5 million or more, is requested to file a 
statistical report covering its total holdings on that date with the 
Federal Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve district in which its 
principal office is located. The reports are due within 20 days 
following the close of each calendar quarter, and forms may be 
obtained by contacting the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Covered Assets in Excess of Ceiling 
1. In view of the balance of payments objectives of the program, 
it is noted that covered investments of nonbank financial 
institutions may be permitted to exceed the guideline ceiling 
to the extent that the funds for such investment are borrowed 
abroad for investment in the same country or in countries that 
are subject to the same or more liberal guideline limitations. 
Thus, funds borrowed in the developed countries of continental 
Western Europe may be used to finance investments in these 
countries and elsewhere, and funds borrowed in other developed 
countries (except Canada) may be used to finance investment 
in covered foreign assets anywhere but in the developed 
countries of continental Western Europe. Any institution desir-
ing to offset foreign borrowing against foreign investment, how-
ever, should discuss its plans with the Federal Reserve Bank 
before entering into such an arrangement. 

. 22 
^ J - O O 
2. While institutions are expected to make every reasonable 
effort to reduce outstanding nonexport credits in order to 
accommodate new export credits within their guideline ceiling, 
such a reduction may not be feasible for some institutions. 
An institution that can not avoid exceeding its guideline ceiling 
if it makes new loans to finance U.S. exports--excluding loans 
that are guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import Bank, 
guaranteed by the Department of Defense, or insured by the 
Foreign Credit Insurance Association—should notify its Federal 
Reserve Bank of the prospective overage before making such loans. 
3. An institution with a guideline ceiling of less than $500,000 may 
hold covered assets up to this amount if its investments are 
consistent with other guideline provisions, e.g., those with 
respect to liquid funds and to nonexport credits to the developed 
countries of continental Western Europe. The institution is 
expected to file an initial statement of its holdings with its 
Federal Reserve Bank and thereafter to file a statement with the 
Bank within 20 days after the end of any calendar quarter when 
its total holdings of covered foreign assets have changed by as 
much as $100,000 since its previous report, even though its total 
holdings remain below the minimum reporting levels stipulated 
in the guidelines. 
°te.--Developed countries other than Canada: 
continental Western Europe-
Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic), Italy, 
Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, 
Pain, Sweden, and Switzerland; other developed countries are: 
Abu Dhabi, 
Australia, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, 
Japan, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, New Zealand, Qatar, Republic 
o t South Afr ica, Saudi Arabia, and the United Kingdom. 
Also to be considered 
developed" are the following countries: 
Albania, Bulgaria, the People's 
Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Communist-controlled 
Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Outer Mongolia, Poland (including any area under its 
Provisional administration;, Rumania, Soviet Zone of Germany and the Soviet 
sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Kurile 
Is lands, Southern Sakhalin, and areas in East Prussia which are under the 
Provisional administration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and 
Communist-controlled Vietman. 
