MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 2, 1969 
a

' j . / e 
3 ( 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 2, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Martin, Chairman 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
M r . Holland, Secretary 
M r . Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
M r . Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
M r . O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
M r . Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
M r . Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
M r . Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
M r . Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
1/ 
Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

3009 
10/2/69 
- 2 -
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Peoples Trust and Savings 
Company, Fort Wayne, Indiana, and Financial Bank, Inc., also of Fort Wayne, 
a transaction designed to facilitate acquisition of the existing bank by 
a newly-formed holding company, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion stating that 
consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Hawkeye Bancorporation. 
There had been distributed drafts of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on September 18, 1969, 
of the application of Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, Iowa, to acquire 
shares of Mills County State Bank, Glenwood, Iowa. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
are attached under Item No. 1. 
Barnett National Securities Corporation. There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on August 27, 
1969, of the application of Barnett National Securities Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Anastasia Bank, St. Augustine, 
Florida, a proposed new bank. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies are 
attached under Item No. 2. 
Atlantic Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated September 19, 1969, and other pertinent papers 
had been distributed in connection with applications of Atlantic Bancorpo-
ration and The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville, both of Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Lake Wales Bank & Trust, Lake Wales, Florida. 

30X0 
10/2/69 
- 3 -
The applications were approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that implementing documents would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Bank Securities, Inc. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated September 24, 1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and other pertinent papers in connection with an application of Bank 
Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, to acquire shares of American 
Bank of Carlsbad, Carlsbad, New Mexico. 
The application was approved unanimously with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Annual reports of income. There had been distributed a staff 
memorandum dated September 24, 1969, recommending that certain revisions 
in the annual reports of income submitted by State member banks be made 
effective at year-end 1969. The applicability of the proposed changes to 
stockholder reports had been brought to the Board's attention earlier, 
and their adaptation to the official reports of income had subsequently 
been the subject of discussion by an interagency staff committee set up 
by the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
Following discussion, the recommendation was approved unanimously. 
Governor Daane entered the meeting at this point. 
Testimony on H.R. 13939. There had been distributed a draft of 
testimony to be presented by Chairman Martin before the House Banking and 
Currency Committee on October 6, 1969, with respect to H.R. 13939. 
That 
bill would extend through September 22, 1970, the authority initially 
granted in 1966 (under Public Law 89-597) to regulate rates of interest on 

3011 
10/2/69 
-4-
time and. savings deposits. It would also broaden the authority of 
the Federal Reserve to acquire securities that were direct obligations 
of Federal agencies, or were fully guaranteed as to principal and 
interest by any agency of the United States, so as to permit direct 
purchases from these agencies as well as purchases in the open market. 
The bill would also express the sense of Congress that this authority 
should be utilized to further the objectives of the Housing and Urban 
Development Act of 1968. 
The testimony would express the view that the authority to 
limit rates of interest or dividends payable on time and savings accounts 
should be extended, and it would recommend that the authority be made 
permanent. With respect to the broadened authority to purchase direct 
obligations of Federal agencies either in the open market or direct 
from the issuing agency, the testimony would recognize the problems 
facing the housing market and suggest that special Federal programs 
should be available to moderate the swings in the supply of mortgage 
money. The testimony would point out, however, that to attempt to 
solve such problems by providing Federal agencies with direct access 
to Federal Reserve credit would have potentially serious consequences. 
The testimony would cite some of those consequences and compensating 
actions that the Federal Reserve might need to take. The testimony 
would then suggest other approaches to provide support for the mortgage 
market, including a number of suggestions contained in the recent report 
of the Commission on Mortgage Interest Rates. 

10/2/69 
-5-
At the beginning of the discussion, Governor Maisel stated 
that the draft testimony appeared to present a major problem of strategy. 
The bill called upon the Federal Reserve to "assist the Nation in meeting 
the housing goals contained in the Housing and Urban Development Act 
of 1968." 
He could interpret that instruction as meaning nothing more 
than to assist by improving the market or preventing disorder in the 
market. However, the testimony was premised on an extreme interpre-
tation, that of solving financial problems in the housing market by 
providing Federal agencies with direct access to Federal Reserve credit. 
M r . Cardon replied that the bill would reflect the sense of 
Congress that the authority to purchase agency issues should be used to 
assist in furthering the goals set up under the Housing Act. If this 
were interpreted to mean nothing more than the recommendation of the 
Mortgage Commission aimed at improving the market, that would be one 
thing. However, it seemed clear to him that it was the intent to achieve 
far more. 
Governor Maisel asked why the testimony should not clarify the 
different possible interpretations. Under certain circumstances, for 
instance, it migftt be logical and desirable for the Federal Reserve to 
make direct purchases of agency obligations in order to prevent a 
disorderly market. 
Mr. Cardon agreed that there was a more limited role that the 
System might play under certain conditions to help the mortgage market, 

3013 
10/2/69 
-7-
should decide to make some outright purchases, the third issue would 
relate to the goal sought to be achieved. There could be several 
different goals, and each would require a different volume of purchases. 
After further discussion, Governor Maisel again expressed the 
view that the testimony was based on an extreme assumption. 
It seemed 
to him that the question boiled down to one of open market authority 
as opposed to direct purchase authority. 
Then there were the further 
questions whether open market authority could be used effectively and, 
finally, whether there was any possibility that the Treasury would make 
up for the lack of flow of mortgage money. 
Governor Brimmer said that he found the proposed testimony 
adequate. However, he suggested that portions of the draft might be 
deleted in order not to dwell so heavily on the question of solving the 
problems of housing. The testimony should be a strong statement that 
would not confuse the question of direct or indirect purchase of agency 
issues with the question of assuring an efficient market. 
Governor Daane agreed that a strong statement should be made, 
and it seemed to him that the question was one of utilization of authority 
rather than efficiency of the market. Under certain circumstances, it 
was conceivable that the authority could be useful. However, the 
statement should make clear that the authority could be used only when 
such usage would fit into the prevailing economic pattern. It could not 
be used solely in the interest of furthering the objectives of housing. 

3014 
10/2/69 
-8-
but he pointed out that the System was not using fully the authority 
it now had. While the Open Market Committee had amended its continuing 
authority directive so as to permit transactions in Federal agency 
securities under repurchase agreements, it had not yet authorized out-
right transactions in such securities. M r . Cardon commented that there 
did not appear to be strong support in the Congress for the proposal 
authorizing the Federal Reserve to buy agency issues as a means of 
maintaining a certain level of housing starts. Accordingly, it seemed 
to him that from the standpoint of strategy, the hard line was the best 
approach. 
There followed some discussion of the proposed testimony in 
terms of positions taken in previous testimony, and it was the staff 
view that the positions were consistent. 
Governor Robertson then inquired as to the issues involved in 
direct buying from the agencies as opposed to buying in the open market. 
M r . Cardon replied that there appeared to be three levels of issues. 
The first related to the question whether there should be any direct 
purchases at all. The proposed testimony would state that there should 
not. The second issue would anticipate that there would be no direct 
purchase authority, and the question then was what should be done under 
the authority the Federal Reserve already had. The testimony would 
indicate that the matter had been kept under review, but as yet no 
decision had been made. 
Finally, assuming that the Federal Reserve 

3015 
10/2/69 
-8-
Governor Robertson said that, as he read the bill, the first 
portion continued the authority of the System to buy and sell agency 
obligations in the open market. That authority was already a matter 
of law, and it was only necessary to note in the testimony that the 
System had the authority and would use it when necessary. The testimony 
could then go on to say that the Board understood the rest of the proposal 
to mean that the System should buy agency issues directly in order to 
carry out housing goals. If that was the correct interpretation of 
Congressional intent, then the Board was opposed to such a procedure. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that it was important that 
the testimony not differ substantially from the Board's previously 
stated positions. 
M r . Cardon, with this point in mind, read a portion of Chairman 
Martin's statement in September before the Senate Committee on Banking 
and Currency relating to the question whether System outright operations 
in agency issues would contribute meaningfully to improvement of the 
market. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the paragraph could be repeated 
in the present testimony; however, it should be just the starting place 
because the proposed bill would also encompass direct purchases of agency 
obligations. 
Additional comments were made on the several points raised, and 
at the conclusion of the discussion it appeared that the majority favored 
generally the approach suggested by Governor Robertson. 

3016 
10/2/69 
-9-
It was understood that the statement would be revised in 
recognition of the various points discussed and would be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Martin. 
(Note: 
A copy of 
the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Proposed survey of CD denominations. 
There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated October 1, 1969, from the Division of Research and 
Statistics relating to a proposed survey of the denomination structure 
of large negotiable certificates of deposit outstanding at weekly 
reporting banks. In view of the sensitivity of the issue, question 
was raised as to the Board's view on the appropriateness of undertaking 
such a survey at this time. 
Following comments by the staff, Governor Brimmer stated that 
while the survey would be technically feasible, such a survey could 
be misinterpreted as an indication that the Board was about to undertake 
a review of rate ceilings. Members of the Board then commented on the 
timeliness of the proposed survey, with some members giving their eval-
uations of possible reactions in the banking community in view of the 
strong focus at present on the limitations imposed under Regulation Q 
(Interest on Deposits). Other comments were directed to the information 
that might be gleaned from the proposed survey and possible revisions 
that might lead to more meaningful data. There appeared to be general 
agreement that the survey would be worthwhile, but the majority of the 
Board members were of the view that the economic climate was not an 

O
/
m
s 
L g 
10/2/69 
-10-
appropriate one in which to launch the survey. It was then suggested 
that the proposal be referred to the System Research Advisory Committee 
for consideration. However, it was the consensus that that should not 
be done unless it was the sense of the Board that the time was ripe 
for undertaking the survey. 
The proposal to conduct the survey was then tabled. 
Atlanta salary structures. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta approving adjustments 
in the employee salary structures applicable to the head office and 
branches. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Hart then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Appointment of First Vice President at Philadelphia. 
Chairman 
Martin referred to a letter dated September 26, 1969, in which Chairman 
Winn of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had reported the unanimous 
recommendation of the Board of Directors that David C . Melnicoff be offered 
the position of First Vice President of the Bank to succeed Robert N . 
Hilkert when the latter retired. 
(The appointment would be effective 
March 1, 1970, for the unexpired portion of the five-year term ending 
February 28, 1971.) 
After discussion of the proposed responsibilities of the position 
as outlined in Chairman Winn's letter, the Board approved unanimously 
the appointment of M r . Melnicoff. The Board also discussed some of the 

3018 
10/2/69 
-11-
considerations bearing upon the salaries for the new President and 
First Vice President that might appropriately be recommended by the 
Board of Directors at a later date, and it was suggested that such 
considerations be conveyed to Chairman Winn. 
A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Winn as the result of 
the action taken by the Board today is attached as Item N o . 4 . 
Reports on meetings. Governor Daane summarized for the Board 
the discussions that had taken place over the week-end at meetings of 
Working Party 3 of the OECD and the Deputies of the Group of Ten, and 
Chairman Martin reported on the discussion at the subsequent meeting 
of the Ministers and Governors of the Group of Ten. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3019 
Item No. 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
10/2/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION,
 
1 
Red Oak, Iowa,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
' 
shares of Mill9 County State Bank,
 
1 
Glenwood, Iowa, 
' 
. 1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK BY 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Hawkeye Bancorporation, 
Red Oak, Iowa, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
87.6 per cent of the voting shares of Mills County State Bank, 
Glenwood, Iowa. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
of Banking for the State of Iowa and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

3020 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 5, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12729), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board
1
s 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C,, this 2nd day of October 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3021 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
HAWKEYE BANCORPORATION FOR APPROVAL 
OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
MILLS COUNTY STATE BANK, GLENWOOD, IOWA 
STATEMENT 
Hawkeye Bancorporation, Red Oak, Iowa ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of 87.6 per cent 
of the voting shares of Mills County State Bank, Glenwood, Iowa 
("Bank"), Acquisition of Bank would be effected through the acqui-
sition by Applicant of all of the outstanding shares of Glenwood 
Bancorporation, Red Oak, Iowa, which presently owns the aforemen-
tioned shares of Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Super-
intendent of Banking for the State of Iowa of receipt of the appli-
cation, and requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

-2-
monopoly or would be In furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other 
proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in Iowa, which include three bank holding com-
panies, control approximately 24.4 per cent of the total bank deposits 
in the State.^ Applicant, the seventh largest of such organizations, 
controls 1.5 per cent of State deposits. After acquisition of Bank 
($1.2 million deposits), Applicant would retain its relative standing 
among the State's largest organizations and would control only an 
additional .02 per cent of the bank deposits in the State. 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968. 

3023 
-3-
The primary service area of Bank's main office in Glenwood 
is estimated to encompass an area within a 10 mile radius, except to 
the west where the Missouri River is a natural boundary. The primary 
service area of Bank's sole branch office, in Silver City, is esti-
mated to encompass an area within an eight mile radius of its site. 
The combined areas contain an estimated 11,000 persons. Bank is the 
smallest of six banks in Mills County, and of four banks in the com-
bined service areas. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would not have an adverse impact upon the degree of concentration 
of banking resources in the State, or in any other relevant area. On 
the record before the Board, it is concluded that the proposed affil-
iation would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing or potential competition, the Board 
finds that these considerations present no bar to approval of the 
application. Applicant has five subsidiary banks, ranging in deposit 
size from $5.5 million to $25.8 million, and controls total deposits 
of about $87 million. The closest subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is 
over 24 miles away, no service area of any of such subsidiaries over-
laps Bank's service area, and several banks are located in the inter-
vening areas. It therefore appears that no existing competition would 

3024 
-4-
be eliminated by the proposed transaction, and these same consideration^ 
as well as restrictive provisions of Iowa branching law, would likely 
preclude the development of significant competition between Bank and 
Applicant's subsidiaries in the future. Consummation of the proposal 
would have no undue adverse effects on competitors of Bank or of Appli-
cant's present subsidiaries. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, 
or in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of the 
country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial conditions of Applicant and its present subsidiaries are 
reasonably satisfactory, as are their managements, and their prospects 
appear favorable. 
A controlling interest in Bank was acquired in late 1967 by 
Glenwood Bancorporation, a corporation organized and controlled by Appli-
cant's President and his associates. Since that time, Bank's capital 
has been increased and its headquarters have been moved from Silver City 
to Glenwood. Management has been recently strengthened, and both the 
management and the financial condition of Bank are regarded as satis-
fy *. 
k • . . 
tactory. Although it has had little growth since its organization in 
1933, in the light of these changes Bank's prospects appear reasonably 
favorable. 

O A O t f 
-5-
i 
The Bodrd finds these factors to be consistent with approval 
of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would not significantly affect the con-
venience or needs of customers served by Applicant's present subsid-
iaries. 
Since Bank's acquisition by interests closely associated 
with Applicant, its services have been improved and expanded, and 
Applicant asserts that continued improvements would be facilitated 
by the proposed acquisition. Trust and computer services, which are 
not now conveniently available in the area, would be made available 
to Bank's customers, and loan participations between Bank and Appli-
cant's present subsidiary banks could be arranged somewhat more readily. 
Most of the asserted benefits to the community can be, and 
to some extent have been, made available under the present relation-
ship between Bank and Applicant. However, to the extent that cooper-
ation between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries would be facilitated 
by the proposal and would result in somewhat greater service to the 
communities which Bank serves, these considerations support approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 

3026 
-6- -
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
October 2, 1969. 
j 

3027 
Item No. 2 
10/2/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D* C^ 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION,
 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent' 
or more of the voting shares of Anastasia ' 
Bank, St. Augustine, Florida, a proposed
 
1 
new bank. 
' 
« « M 
I 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<
1 2
 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12:CPR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National 
Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, for the Board's prior 
a
Pproval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
Anastasia Bank, St. Augustine, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
Inasmuch as the proposed new bank is to be a State bank, the 
Board, pursuant to section 3(b) of the Act, gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the State 
o f
 Florida, and requested his views and recommendation with respect 
thereto, in response, the Commissioner recommended approval of the 
a
Pplication. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 25, 1969 (34 Federal Register 12303), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
f
or filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
b e
 extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, and that Anastasia Bank be ' 
°Pen for business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 2ndday of Qfetobet 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3 0 2 9 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
ANASTASIA BANK, ST. AUGUSTINE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company located in Jacksonville, Florida, has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U^S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Anastasia Bank, St. Augustine, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - Since 
the proposed new bank is to be a State bank, the Beard notified the 
Commissioner of Banking of the State of Florida of the receipt of the 
application, as required by section 3(b) of the Act, and requested his 
views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner recommended approval 
o f
 the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
t h e B
°ard shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly 
°
r W o u
l d be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
o r
 to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 

3930 
- 2 -
United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in 
any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board 
finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant has 
16 subsidiary banks and controls $559 million in deposits, or 4.8 per cent 
of the total deposits in the State.*/ it is the fourth largest of 13 bank 
holding companies, and the fourth largest banking organization in the 
State. Bank is a proposed new bank, which, it is estimated, will have 
about $4 million in deposits after three years of operation. 
Bank would be located on, and is expected to serve, Anastasia 
Island, a residential beach community with a population of approximately 
6
>300, situated 1 1/2 miles east of downtown St. Augustine. It would be 
ref 
otherwise indicated, all banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
h i
t
0 
i n a u r e d
 commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect 
d
ing company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

393: 
the fourth bank, and the second of Applicant's subsidiaries, in St. John's 
County, Florida. Applicant's other county subsidiary, which has $21 
million in deposits, is located in St. Augustine, and is the smaller 
of the 
two banks in that city. The larger St. Augustine bank has deposits 
of $23 million, and is affiliated by common ownership with the only other 
bank presently located in St. John's County, a $4.4 million deposits 
bank located in Hastings, about 19 miles southwest of Anastasia Island. 
The area which Bank would serve is within the area presently 
served by Applicant's St. Augustine subsidiary and the other bank in 
St. Augustine. However, in view of the fact that Bank is a new bank 
wnich will 
not be established unless the subject application is approved, 
no existing competition would be eliminated or potential competition 
foreclosed by consummation of the proposal. Concentration would not be 
immediately affected in any relevant area, and the projected deposits of 
Bank do not suggest a significant future effect on concontration. Finally, 
it does not appear that the market position which Applicant would attain 
as a result of the proposal would have any undue adverse effect on competing 
banks. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or in any other manner restrain 
trade i n a n y section of the country. 

3032 
-4-
Financial and managerial Resources and future prospects. -
Applicant' s financial condition, management, and prospects are regarded 
as generally satisfactory. These conclusions also apply to Applicant's 
subsidiary banks. 
Bank's organization has received the preliminary approval of 
the Commissioner of Banking of the State of Florida. 
Its proposed 
capital appears adequate, its proposed management competent, and its 
prospects appear favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are regarded as 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Banking 
needs of the area which Bank will serve are presently being met by the 
t W o 
b
anks in downtown St. Augustine. 
This area has grown faster in 
recent years than any other area of St. John's County, and is expected 
to continue to do so in the future. Except for trust services, Bank 
w
i l l offer the same services as are presently available from the downtown 
banks. While no new services will be introduced into the area 
as a 
result of the proposal, the convenience of area residents would be served 
by Bank's location, and by the longer hours which it is proposed that 
Bank will adopt in order to more conveniently serve the island's suburban 
Population. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
community which Bank would aerv-o provide some weight iu favor of approval 
o f
 the application. 

3033 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed ; 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 2, 1969. 

•ioVco^-. 
fflmfc-. 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item N o . 3 
10/2/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 2, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Kyle K . Fojjsum, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303. 
Dear M r . Fossun: 
As requested in your letter of September 12, 1969, the 
Board of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum 
salaries for the respective grades of the enployees' salary struc-
tures at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlante and Branches, effective 
November 1, 1969. 
Atlanta- 
Jacksonville-
Birmingham 
New Orleans 
Nashville 
Grade 
Min it lum Maximum 
Minimum 
Maxi mum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
$ 3 350 
$ 4,375 
$ 3,350 $ 4 2 75 
$ 3,350 $ 4,375 
2 
3 500 
4,700 
3,500 
4 700 
3,375 
4,525 
3 
3 800 
5,150 
3,800 
5 125 
3,525 
4,775 
4 
4 125 
5,575 
4,075 
5 500 
3,800 
5,100 
5 
4 500 
6,100 
4,500 
6 : oo 
4,125 
5,575 
6 
4 925 
6,675 
4,925 
6 675 
4,550 
6,150 
7 
5 450 
7,350 
5,450 
7 250 
5,075 
6,825 
8 
6 075 
8,225 
6,050 
8 150 
5,650 
7,650 
9 
6 1300 
9,200 
6,675 
9 025 
6,350 
8,550 
10 
7 575 
10,225 
7,350 
9 950 
7,150 
9,650 
11 
8 425 
11,375 
8,075 
10 925 
8,000 
10,800 
12 
9 350 
12,650 
8,900 
12 000 
8,900 
12,000 
13 
10 375 
14,025 
9,825 
13 2 75 
9,825 
13,275 
14 
11 500 
15,500 
10,900 
14 700 
10,900 
14,700 
15 
12 •375 
17,125 
12,075 
16 :.25 
12,075 
16,325 
16 
13 •)50 
18,825 
13,400 
18 ]00 
13,400 
18,100 

3035 
M r . Kyle K . Fossum 
- 2 -
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits spec-
ified for the grades in which their respective positions are classified. 
All employees whose salaries are below the minimum of their grades as a 
result of these structure increases should be brought within appropriate 
ranges by February 1, 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3936 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item N o . 4 
10/2/69 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20531 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQHRESPQNOtNC 
TO THE BOARD 
October 3, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Will is J . W i n n , 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear M r . Winn: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appoint-
ment of David C . Melnicoff as First Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, effective March 1, 
1970 and continuing through February 28, 1971, which is the 
unexpired portion of the five-year term of the First Vice 
President of your Bank. 
While no mention was made of salary in your let-
ter of September 26, the Board has established a range of 
$32,500 to $42,500 for this position ft your Bank. 
Your 
salary proposal will be considered at a later date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C . Holland, 
Secre tary. 
