MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 20, 1970 

±00 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 20, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
PRESENT: 
'it haakj 
to 
by tiu'.rh 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Ettin and Mrs. Opper of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Interest rate ceilings. 
The purpose of this session was to 
c°nsider further what views were to be expressed, on behalf of the 
B°ard as a whole or by members individually, at today's conference, 
Scheduled to begin at 10:30, with the directors of the Federal Deposit 
fc'OOit i 
. • . 
- • . 

1 < ) 1 
1/20/70 
-2-
Insurance Corporation and the members of the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board concerning the prospective adjustment of interest rate ceilings 
applicable both to consumer-type time deposits and savings deposits 
a t banks and to large-denomination negotiable certificates of deposit 
issued by such institutions. 
It was clear that in the judgment of all members of the 
Board the time was at hand for adjustment of the prevailing ceilings. 
There was also agreement on the rationale: 
The action would not be 
intended to signal a change in the current posture of monetary policy 
nor would it be designed to give impetus to cross-intermediation, that 
it V* *•• 
is> to permit one class of depositary institutions to pull significant 
amounts of funds away from another. Rather, the purpose would be 
essentially to enhance the ability of banks to compete more effectively 
against the market as vehicles for the accumulation of savings and to 
compete more effectively than in recent months for the type of money 
represented by the large-denomination certificates. 
There remained some differences of opinion among members of 
cne Board with respect to the specifics of the contemplated action. 
However, the anticipation was that such differences would tend to be 
resolved, or at least minimized, in the course of today's consultation 
^ith the other agencies, particularly the Home Loan Bank Board. 
Assuming, therefore, that it would be possible at the joint 
feting to develop a package of adjusted ceiling rates reasonably 

±<)Z 
1/20/70 
-3-
acceptable to the respective agencies, it appeared probable that 
except in one respect the action taken by the Board of Governors 
Would be without dissent. 
The exception was that Governor Robertson 
continued to look with disfavor on increasing the rates that member 
banks were permitted to offer on large-denomination certificates 
unless such action was accompanied by the introduction of a "guardrail" 
Provision, one that would prevent individual member banks from increasing 
their volume of outstanding certificates more than a stipulated amount 
beyond the level prevailing at any given time. 
It was understood that the Board, in conjunction with its 
Prospective announcement of adjusted interest rate ceilings, also 
would act to publish for comment a proposal to amend Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, pursuant to the authority granted to the 
Board in recently-enacted legislation, so as to institute a 10 per cent 
reserve requirement against funds obtained by member banks from the 
issuance of commercial paper or similar obligations by bank affiliates. 
The Board meeting recessed shortly before 10:30 a.m. 
The 
Board reconvened in the Board Room at 3:10 p.m., all members except 
Governor Sherrill again being present. 
Staff attendance was 
approxi-
mately the same as at the morning session. 
Interest rate ceilings. 
It was noted that the action now 
Proposed to be taken with respect to the maximum rates permitted 
t o be paid by member banks on various classes of time deposits, 

± 1 9 3 
1/20/70 
-4-
including savings deposits, was being considered in the light of 
its having been ascertained as the result of today's consultation 
that the Home Loan Bank Board could "live with" such action. 
The Bank 
•••A 
Board was expected to announce shortly, probably tomorrow, adjustments 
xn the ceiling rates applicable to insured savings and loan associations 
along with certain related administrative changes in the rules pertaining 
;X Ci), V 
t o the affairs of such associations. Additionally, it was of course 
understood that action similar to that being taken by the Board of 
uove 
Governors would be announced by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
in respect to the rate ceilings applicable to deposits at nonmember 
insured banks, together with consistent revisions in the ceilings 
aPplicable to insured mutual savings banks. 
New maximum rates on various classes of time deposits at member 
flhe 
r Vf . 
banks, as identified in the amendments to the Supplement to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, set forth in the Federal Register notice attached 
t o these minutes as Item No. 1, were then approved effective January 21, 
1^70. The vote was unanimous except that Governor Robertson dissented 
f r° m the part of the action relating to maximum rates that would be 
Permitted to be paid on large-denomination certificates of deposit; 
copy 
of the statement submitted by Governor Robertson in explanation 
o f his position is attached as Item No. 2. 
Commercial paper. The Board then authorized, by unanimous 
V° t ej publication for comment of a proposal under which the requirements 

d L S N i 
I 
I 
i 
r 
1/20/70 
-5-
; j 
°f Regulation D relating to the maintenance of reserves by member 
banks would be extended to impose a 10 per cent reserve requirement 
funds obtained by such banks through the issuance of commercial 
paper or similar obligations by bank affiliates, such requirement 
to become effective February 26, 1970. A copy of the notice published 
in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 3. 
Although the question was not up for decision at this time, 
Governor Robertson asked that the record show that he continued to 
believe the requirements of Regulation Q should be made applicable 
to commercial paper and similar obligations issued by bank affiliates. 
The Board also reached agreement on the content of a press 
statement to be issued with respect to the foregoing actions; a copy 
°t the 
release, as issued, is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
j 
a 
tM*' 

I f ) 
Item No. 1 
1/20/70 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 1HE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. QJ 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Maximum Rates of Interest 
1. Effective January 21, 19/0, J 217.7 (Supplement to 
Regulation Q) :.s amended to read as follows: 
3 217.7 Maximum rates of interest payable tv member banks on time 
deposits . 
Pursuant to the provisions oil section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and § 217.3, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System hereby prescribes the following maximum rates-'' of 
interest per annum payable by member banks o.c the Federal Reserve 
System on time and savings deposits: 
(a) Single maturity time deposits. 
(1) Deposits of $100,000 or more. No member bank shall 
Pay interest on any single maturity tine deposit of $100,000 or more 
a f' 
a rate in excess of the applicable rate under the following schedule 
Maturity 
Maximum per cent 
30-59 days 
6-1/4 
60-89 days 
6-1/2 
90-179 days 
6-3/4 
180 days or more but less 
than 1 year 
7 
1 year or more 
7-1/2 
^ 
limitations on rates of interest, payable by member banks of 
federal Reserve System on time and savings deposits, as prescribed 
0 , f
e i n > a r e not applicable to any deposit which is payable only at an 
i c e o f a member bank located outside the States of the United States 
n d the District of Columbia. 

1 9 6 
-2 -
(2) Deposits of less then $100,000. No member bank 
shall pay interest on any single maturity time deposit of less 
than $100,000 at a rate in excess of the applicable rate under the 
following schedule: 
Maturity 
Maximum per cent 
vi'l-M 
'i/i ? 
f-... 
30 days or more but less 
than 1 year 
5 
1 year or more but less 
than 2 years 
5-1/2 
2 years or more 
/ 
5-3/4 
(b) Multiple maturity time deposits. 
(1) Deposits payable at intervals of at least 90 days. 
— 
No member bank shall pay interest at a rate in excess of 5 per cent 
ori a multiple maturity time deposit that is payable only 90 days 
0 r more after the date of deposit, or 90 days or more after the 
last preceding date on which it might have been paid. 
(2) Deposits payable at Intervals of less than 90 days., 
member bank shall pay interest at a rate in excess of 4-1/2 per 
cent on « multiple maturity time deposit thet is payable less than 
90 , 
aays after the date of deposit, or less than 90 days (but at least 
days) after the last preceding date on which it might have been 
Paid. 
(c) Savings deposits. Mo member bank shall pay interest 
a t a i*ate in excess of 4-1/2 per cent on any savings deposit. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 

± 1 9 7 
-3-
2a. The changes (1) raise from 4 to 4-1/2 per cent the 
maximum rate of interest a member bank may p.ay on savings deposits, 
(2) raise (i) from 5 to 5-1/2 the maximum rate on single maturity 
time deposits of less, than $100,000 with maturity of 1 year but less 
I 
than 2 years and (ii) from 5 to 5-3/4 the maximum rate on such deposits 
wi-th a maturity of two years or more, and (3) raise (i) from 6-3/4 to 
7-1/2 per cent the maximum rate of interest on a single maturity 
time deposit of $100,000 or more with maturity of 1 year and (ii) raise 
b y 3/4 per cent, the maximum rate of interest on such a deposit with 
maturities 
less than 1 year (30-59 days from 5-1/2 to 6-1/4; 60-89 
d ays from 5-3/4 to 6-1/2; 90-179 days from 6 to 6-3/4, and 180 days 
t o 1 year from 6-1/4 to 7). 
b. The changes were taken within the framework of continued 
°verall credit restraint and were based on these considerations: 
a readjustinent of the structure of maximum interest rates payable by 
Member banks fo:; deposits to bring it somewhat more in line with going 
y x elds on market securities; the need for greater equity in the rates 
that may be paid for smaller savings balances, and a desire to 
courage longer-term savings in reinforcemert of anti-inflationary 
measures. 
c. The requirements of section 553(b) of Title 5, United 
S t-a tes Code,'with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred 
ef£ective date were not followed;-, in connection with this amendment 

1 9 8 
-4-
becau^o the Board found that the general credit situation and the 
Public interest compelled it to make the action effective no later 
than the date adopted. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 20, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

± 1 9 9 
Item No. 2 
1/20/70 
Reasons for Dissent by Vice Chairman Robertson to 
Action Raising Ceiling Rates of Interest on Large 
Certificates of Deposit (over $100,000). 
The drain on bank deposits as a result of Regulation 
Q ceilings has been'the cutting edge of a policy of strict 
monetary restraint - forcing banks to reduce investments and 
curtail »rowth of loans. It has also led, unfortunately, 
to the development of alternative sources of funds (Euro-
dollars, sales of loans under repurchase agreements, sales 
°f loans to affiliates which finance the sales of loans 
through commercial paper, etc.). 
It seems clear that we should avoid putting undue_ 
Pressure on banks through the Q ceilings, but at the same 
time we should endeavor to avoid a premature excessively 
rapid rate of bank intermediation, lest we lose the psycho-
logical and real anti-inflationary benefits that the current 
level of bank restraint is producing. 
It is by no means clear that a rate increase of 1 or 
per cent would enable banks to sell more large CD's, 
b^t neither is it clear that such an action would not enable 
them to gather in too large an amount of funds with which to 
e*pan.d bank credit. There is a strong possibility that the 
Process of competition between CD's and other market instruments 

would soon invalidate the new ceiling. Moreover, if and 
when interest rates turn lower in the future, the existence 
of the higher ceiling would allow banks to increase their 
11 
CD?s at a rapid pace sooner than if the present ceiling is 
retained, with potential adverse inflationary consequences. 
In addition, it: might result in undue delay, later on, in 
getting the interest rate structure down to a more moderate 
Qnd livable level. 
Whi le we. should avoid further continuance of the rate 
of CD attrition of the past seven months, we should also mini-
mize the upward ratcheting of interest rates that would almost 
certainly occur if the ceiling were moved up enough to do any 
good or if it were eliminated altogether. Consequently, from 
n>y point of view, we should be very careful in tampering with 
r a t e ceilings. No one can accurately foresee the consequences 
°f the proposed increase in rate ceilings. 
With respect to small CD's, that is, those under 
$100,000, and with respect to the rate on savings accounts 
commercial banks, we should alter the ceilings only if com-
parable alterations can be made with respect to ceilings ap-
plicable to thrift institutions in a manner which will safely 
Preserve the present: flow of funds as between banks and 

201 
- 3 
-
thrift-type institutions - i.e., not pull funds away from 
thrift institutions, for they are the primary lenders in 
the housing sector. Consequently, I would approve an in-
crease in rate ceilings in this area geared to the rates 
Which nonbank thrift institutions can afford to pay and 
which the Federal Home Loan Bank Hoard approves. I must 
rely on the judgment of the FHLBB expressed at the time of 
our consultation. 
With respect to large CD's (those of $100,000 and 
over) and other types of so-called nondeposit funds, I would 
roake all the latter subject to Regulation D (reserve require-
ments) and Regulation Q and then remove the rate ceilings 
°n these instruments, up to the limits established by a 
guardrail (described below)^ to prevent undue bank credit 
eXpansion. j would do this by permitting any rate to be 
* 
Paid on Eurodollars, large certificates of deposit, commer-
cial paper with maturities in excess of 30 days, or large 
^posits of foreign official accounts; but I would restrict 
ciny individual bank from expanding (on a ceiling-free basis) 
the aggregate amount of funds in all those categories to the 
a^ount held on a specified date (whatever date is determined 
hy staff to be.most appropriate), plus 1 per cent a month, 

or $100,000 per month, whichever is greater. In the event 
a guardrail of the type here described were put into effect, 
any instrument used to obtain deposits over and above the 
individual bank's aggregate ceiling would be subject to the 
applicable rate ceilings now in effect. 
This would permit banks to choose between alternative 
sources of funds without rate limitations (perhaps lowering 
^existing rates in some of the areas or even all of them, 
repay Eurodolla rs with the proceeds of domestic sales of 
commercial paper or certificates of deposit, if they wish), 
kilt not to unduly expand bank credit in a period when infla-
tion is still rampant. 
Such an action would not only be the first step in 
eliminating interest rate ceilings, but would evidence the 
Federal Reserve's concern about avoiding excessive restraint 
°n the banking system while not backing away from an overall 
Posture of restraint. Furthermore, the consequences of the 
Action would be foreseeable. 
Of course, Regulations D and Q should be applied to 
funds acquired through the use of CD's and commercial 
Paper, both of which would be considered as deposits, even 
though the rate ceiling was removed with respect thereto. 

Deposits are deposits, whatever the name of the instrument 
1 
| 
used to obtain them - certificate of deposit, promissory 
|1 
note, I.O.U., etc. 
i 
i 
Failure to provide a quantitative control would be 
highly inappropriate, for it may result in an undue expansion 
°f bank credit at exactly the wrong tine. Without it, the 
impression might be falsely created that the System was 
backing off from monetary restraint and was prepared to see 
banks resume intermediation in a big way; it might induce 
a strong round of competitive bidding for CD's among banks, 
Put additional upward pressure on short-term interest rates, 
and lead to another round of increases in the prime rate. 
January 
20, 
1970 

r 
2 0 4 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/20/70 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
(Reg. D] 
. RESERVES OF MEMBER BAi\1CS 
I':,- . .i . 
Certain Borrowings by Bank Affiliates as Deposits 
The Board of Governors is considering amending Regulation D, 
effective February 26, 1970, in the following respects: 
(1) By adding to 5 204.1(f) the following sentences: 
"For the purposes of this part, 'deposits' cl a member bank also include 
the liability of a member bank's affiliate, as defined in section 2(b)(2) 
° r 2 < b ) W of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S'.C. 221a(b)(2) and (b)(4)), 
on any promissory note, acknowledgment of advance, due bill, or similar 
^ligation (written or oral), with a maturity of two years or less, 
that is issued or undertaken principally as a means of supplying funis 
to the bank for use in its banking business, or maintaining the avail-
ability cf such funds, except any such obligation that, if it had been 
issued direct 1) by the member bank, would no': constitute a deposit in 
View of exceptions (1) and (2), above. 
(2) By changing the caption of 5 204.5(c) to read "Reserve 
Percentages against certain deposits", by inserting "(1)" before the 
resent text of such section, and by inserting the following before 
t h c p e r i o d at the end thereof: 
"and (2) Time deposits"' represented 
dcDo°r t h C p u r p o s e s o f t h i s Paragraph, "tine deposits" means any 
I s t t having a maturity of one day or more. 

'f>JfS 
+2 
205 
by obligations of affiliates shall not be subject to paragraph (a) 
I i 
of this se.ction, but a member bank shall maintain v/ith the Reserve 
Bank of its district, a daily average balance, equal to 10 per cent 
of the da?:ly average amount of such deposits 
The main purpose of the proposed amendments is to apply a 
10 per cent reserve requirement to funds received by member banks at 
the result of issuance of obligations commonly described as commercial 
Paper by a corporation or trust that (1) majority-controls the member 
a n k > 
i s majority-controlled by persons who also majority-control 
the member bank, or (3) is controlled by trustees for the benefit of 
the shareholder.", of the member bank. The amendments would implement 
authority granted by the Congress to the Board in section 4(a) of 
the Act of Decenber 23, 1969 (Public Law 91-151). 
The following illustrate the effect of the proposed amendments: 
(1) A corporation that controls a majority of the stock of a 
member bank establishes and acquires a majority of the stock of another 
c°rporation. 
That corporation proposes to acquire $10 million by the 
Public sale on February 1 of promissory notes with a maturity of 90 days 
an<* to use $5 million to acquire on February L interests in loans made 
b y t h e b a n k , $3 million of which will mature in 90 days and $2 million 
o £ Which will manure in ICQ days. Under the proposed amendment, on 
Feb 
• 
uary 26, $5 million of the notes will become subject to a 10 per 
G n t r e serve requirement, which would continue as long as the funds 
the affiliate are used to maintain the availability of funds to the 
bank. 

i J O G 
-3-
(2) If, on March 1, the affiliate described in the preceding 
paragraph sells 
to a third person $1 million of the 50-day loans, the 
bank may thereupon reduce its deposits subject to the 10 per cent 
requirement by $1 million. 
If, on April 1, $1 million of the affiliate-
funds are again used to purchase from the bank notes maturing in 43 days 
the bank must add back $1 million to its deposits subject to the 10 per 
cent requirement, even though the affiliate does not issue additional 
°bligations. 
If, upon maturity on May 2 of the affiliate's $5 million 
°f obligations, the affiliate extends $1 million thereof for 60 days 
and $2 million for 90 days, the $1 million is subject to reserves only 
for 14 days - until the maturity of the 45-day loans - unless additional 
funds are channeled to the bank or repayments on the loans maturing in 
that time are deferred. 
If, on June 1, a pcrtion of the $2 million 
120-day loans Is prepaid, the amount of such prepayments will reduce 
the amount of the affiliate's obligations that are subject to reserves, 
U n lcss additional funds are channeled to the bank. 
To aj d in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
^uterested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
argunients. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
So 
1etary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
°hington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than February 16, 1970. 

Under the Board's rules regarding availability of information 
(12 CFR Part 261), such materials will be made available for 
inspection and copying upon request unless the person submitting 
the material a.sks that it be considered confidential. 
By order of the Board of Governors. January 20, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

^IRE^V 
Item No. 4 
1/20/70 
For immediate release. 
January 20, 1970. 
r 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced an upward realignment of maximum interest rates member com-
mercial banks may pay on time and savings deposits. At the same time, 
the Board published for comment a proposed rule applying reserve 
requirements to certain types of bank-related commercial paper. The 
interest: rate changes are effective January 21 while the proposed 
action on commercial paper, if adopted, would become effective 
February 26. 
The dual moves were taken within the framework of continued 
overall credit restraint and were based on these considerations: 
a 
^balancing of the Board's regulatory structuie in the light of recently 
l a n d e d authority in this field and developments in financial markets; 
a readjustment of the structure of maximum interest rates payable by 
commercial banks for deposits to bring it som-what more in line with 
yields on market securities; the need for greater equity in the 
ra t e 
c s that may be paid for smaller savings balances, and a desire to 
°ncouragG longer-term savings in reinforcement of anti-inflationary 
Measures. 
The revisions in the Board's Regulation 0 ceiling rates 
t 0 moderate size, so as not to foster sudden and large move-
ments 
f funds into the banking system that could cause distortions in 
trad it j 
or>al financial flows or lead to an upsurge in bank lending. 

-2-
The revisions were made after consultation with the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation: and th,* Federal Home Loan Bank Board , 
which have parallel regulatory authority over the maximum interest rate£; 
that may be paid by insured State nonmember banks, mutual savings banks, 
and savings find loan associations. 
In taking the actions announced, the Board of Governors 
expressed its belief that higher rates pail to savers by institutions 
generally would increase the pool of savings for investment in mortgages 
"'he change in the maximum interest rates payable on time 
and savings deposits is the first since April 19, 1968, when maximum 
interest rates on deposits of $100,000 or more were increased. 
In today's action, the Board raised from 4 to 4i5 per cent 
the maximum rate National and State member banks may pay on passbcck 
savings, the first change in this rat.e since November 24, 1964. The 
Hoard also approved the following maximum irate structure for other typef. 
consumer-type deposits--those of less than $100,000: 
New 
Present 
Maturity 
maximum 
max imum 
30-89 days multiple maturity-'' 
4.50 
4.00 
90 days and over 
multiple maturity-^ 
5.00 
5.00 
30 days-1 year single maturity 
5.00 
5.00 
1 year single maturity 
5.50 
5.00 
2 year single maturity 
5.75 
5.00 
Previously, there was no provision in Regulation Q for an 
interest rate above 5 per cent on consumer-type deposits. 
The one-year 
m 
Multiple-maturity time deposits include deposits that are auto-
renewable at maturity without action by the depositor and 
"""its that are payable after written notice of withdrawal. 

0 
-3-
and two-year instruments that may now be offered by member banks at the 
5.50 per cent and 5.75 per cent maximum rates respectively must be 
single-dated maturities. 
The Board also approved the following schedule of maximum 
rates that member commercial]banks may pay on time deposits of 
$100,COO or more: 
Maturity 
New 
maximum 
Present 
maximum 
30-59 days 
6.25 
5.50 
60-89 days 
6.50 
5.75 
90-179 days 
6.75 
6.00 
180 days to 1 year 
7.00 
6.25 
1 year or more 
7.50 
6.25 
In proposing to use new legislative authority for the first 
time, the Board said it is considering a 10 per cent reserve requiremen 
on funds obtained by member banks through the issuance of commercial 
P aPer or similar obligations by banl< affiliates, including a member 
b ank's parent company—either a one-bank holding company or a company 
registered under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Cm October 29, 1969, the Board announced that it was 
considering amending its rules governing the payment of interest on 
d°Posits to apply to funds received by member banks from the issuance 
commercial paper by bank affiliates or by a parent holding company. 
Subsequently, the Act of December 23, 196?, explicitly authorized the 
B o ard to apply reserve requirements to such obligations. 
Accordingly, 
t he Board has withheld action in applying interest rate ceilings to 

2 1 1 
-4-
bank-related commercial paper while it in considering amending its 
rules to apply reserve requirements; to the same type paper. 
Comments 
on this proposal should be received by the Board by February 16. 
Commercial paper issued by b^nk holding companies or their 
affiliates has grown substantially during the last several month.-,, 
totaling about $4 billion at the end of December compared with a. total 
commercial paper market of about $33 billion. 
Attached are copies of amendments to Regulation Q and the 
proposed amendments to Regulation D. 
- 0 -
Attachments. 
