MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 9, 1969 

1232 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 9, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
v;:-!
 :
 - 
la'-V : . 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Randall, Chairman, and Mr. Sprague, a director, of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also were present along with 
members of the staff of the Corporation and a representative of the 
Comptroller of the Currency. 
Massachusetts mutuals. This discussion had been arranged at 
the request of Chairman Randall in order that he and Mr. Sprague might 
seek the views of the Board with regard to steps that might be taken 
to alleviate competitive problems being experienced by eight mutual 
savings banks in the State of Massachusetts whose deposits were insured 

.1233 
4/9/69 
-7-
through the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Although the 
difficulties of those banks were of relatively long standing, they 
were regarded by the Corporation as becoming increasingly acute. 
Reference was made to a possible action under which rate ceilings for 
the banks would be placed on a standby basis in return for an agree-
ment on their part to abide by certain administrative rules pertaining 
to competition for funds, including the use of advertising. An alter-
native mentioned would permit the banks to offer a rate of 5-1/4 per 
cent on certain certificates or special notice accounts. 
At the conclusion of a detailed exposition of the situation, 
Board members prefaced their reactions by emphasizing that the views 
they expressed should be regarded as advisory in nature and that a 
final judgment must of course remain within the hands of the Corporation. 
Governor Maisel believed that fairly clearly some action was indicated 
to improve the ability of the eight mutuals to compete more effectively 
against the market and other depositary institutions, particularly the 
much larger number of savings banks in the State whose deposits were 
not Federally insured. He further envisaged that sooner or later moves 
would have to be made by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to help assure 
/ it A.' > if <•• v* ii V 
4'V'l v? X <'? t, vi 4 . •• 
that insured savings and loan associations in various parts of the 
,M i . 
i S i .» 1, i-m 
••• 
. > • ' I 
country would be able to obtain a reasonable supply of funds. Governor 
Brimmer, while accepting much of Governor Maisel's analysis, reached a 
different conclusion. In his view the Corporation should try, if at all 

.1234 
4/9/69 
-7-
possible, to continue to refrain from taking special action with 
respect to the situation in Massachusetts because he was apprehensive 
that any action directed toward resolving that problem might trigger 
a chain of events that in his judgment it would not be desirable to 
set in motion given the present and prospective economic and financial 
climate. 
Governor Robertson expressed the hope that if the Corporation 
was persuaded that some action in respect to the situation in Massa-
chusetts was necessary, it would decide to do "as little as possible." 
Chairman Martin expressed, on behalf of the Board, appreciation to the 
Corporation for having refrained from taking action thus far and for 
having explored the problem in as much depth as it had. While dis-
claiming any particular expertise in dealing with matters of this 
kind, i.e., the local situation in Massachusetts, it was his view that 
the Corporation would be well advised to do everything possible to 
"buy time." 
Chairman Randall and those who had accompanied him then with-
drew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cloth and Shuter of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

JL/'-m.vo 
4/9/69 
-4-
Hamilton National Associates. The Board authorized the 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting its approval on March 14, 
1969, of the application of Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, 
Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire additional shares of The Hamilton 
National Bank of Chattanooga, Chattanooga, Tennessee. Copies of the 
documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting its approval on March 12, 1969, of 
the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of The First National Bank of Rich Lake, 
Rich Lake, Wisconsin. Copies of the documents are attached under 
Item No. 2. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum of April 8, 1969, 
Mr. Broida had submitted for final review a draft of policy record 
entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
January 14, 1969. The entry had been approved by the Board on March 21 
and no further suggestions had been received. 
The Board authorized the release of the entry on Monday, 
April 14, 1969. 
Report on proposed bill. The Board approved unanimously a 
letter to the Department of Justice submitting views and comments on a 
draft bill "To amend title 28, United States Code, so as to authorize 

123G 
4/9/69 
-5-
the issuance of warrants for administrative inspections authorized by 
laws of the United States or regulations thereunder, and for seizures 
appropriate to such inspections." The proposed bill would be known as 
the Administrative Inspection Warrant Act of 1969. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Department is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Annex building and other building projects. The question was 
presented of issuing a press release in connection with the Board's 
decision to postpone construction of its proposed annex building. 
A related question had to do with what policy should be followed 
in regard to building projects of the Federal Reserve Banks and whether 
reference should be made to such a policy if a press statement was 
issued with respect to the decision on the annex building. 
It was reported to be the view of the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans that as a general policy Federal Reserve 
Banks should for the present be allowed to move forward only with land 
acquisition and architectural planning in relation to building projects. 
However, it was recognized that there appeared to be special considera-
tions involved in the building programs under way in Minneapolis, 
Memphis, and Cincinnati, including the fact that those projects were 
tied in with urban renewal programs. 

.1237 
4/9/69 
-7-
Comments by Board members reflected a general inclination to 
feel that the Minneapolis building project probably should be allowed 
to proceed, particularly in view of the advanced status of the project 
and considerations such as those that had been spelled out by President 
Galusha during a meeting with the Board earlier this year. 
(However, 
a staff member reported that President Galusha had indicated recently 
that he planned to take up again with the directors of the Bank the 
question of the appropriateness, in all the circumstances, of moving 
forward with the project in the current economic environment.) 
With regard to the Memphis project, Board members noted the 
urgent need for a new facility. Among other things, some doubt was 
expressed as to whether the proper degree of security could be provided 
in the present quarters. 
The exact status of the Concinnati project appeared to be less 
certain, and it was suggested that it might be desirable to ascertain 
whether the relationship of the project to the urban renewal program 
in the area concerned imposed deadlines that the Reserve Bank would be 
expected to observe. 
During the course of the discussion Governor Maisel commented 
that although the views of members of the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans were along the lines that had been 
indicated, he understood Governor Sherrill to feel that in view of the 

.1238 
4/9/69 
-7-
decision reached on the Board's annex building it would be consistent 
as a matter of policy likewise to postpone all building projects of 
the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The consensus reached as a result of the discussion was that 
it would be appropriate to issue a press release concerning the Board's 
decision with respect to its annex building and that the statement should 
relate principally to that matter, with no specific reference therein 
to individual Federal Reserve Banks. 
Accordingly, the issuance of a release in the form attached as 
Item No. 4 was authorized. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal 
Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

mm 
Item No. 1 
. ^ 
- 
4/9/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
HAMILTON NATIONAL ASSOCIATES, 
' 
INCORPORATED,
 
1 
Chattanooga, Tennessee,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of not less 
' 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of ' 
The Hamilton National Bank of Chattanooga,
1 
Chattanooga, Tennessee.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Hamilton National 
Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, Tennessee, a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of The Hamilton 
National Bank of Chattanooga, Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 

1240 
-2* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 13, 1969 (34 Federal Register 2161), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the application so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C t , thisJftfch day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1241 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
HAMILTON NATIONAL ASSOCIATES, INCORPORATED, CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF THE HAMILTON NATIONAL BANK OF CHATTANOOGA, 
CHATTANOOGA, TENNESSEE 
STATEMENT 
Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, 
Tennessee ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
a
pplied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
a
Pproval of the acquisition of not less than 80 per cent of the 
v
°ting shares of The Hamilton National Bank of Chatt-anooga, 
Chattanooga, Tennessee ("Hamilton Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
a
nd recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a
 monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o
 monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. 

1242 
-4-
Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, 
in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. In each case the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - A clos^ 
relationship between Applicant and Hamilton Bank, based upon common 
stock ownership, has existed since Applicant's organization in 1930. 
Applicant directly owns 22.3 per cent of Hamilton Bank, and over 
6 7
 per cent of the stock of Applicant and about 47 per cent of the 
®tock of Hamilton Bank is owned by common shareholders. 
Applicant, by virtue of its effective control of Hamilton 
Bank, together with its nine subsidiary banks, is the fifth largest 
banking organization in Tennessee. It controls approximately 
$330.5 million in total deposits,representing 5.9 per cent of 
deposits in the State. Hamilton Bank and seven of Applicant's nine 
All banking data are as of June 29, 1963, unless otherwise noted. 

12 13 
-3-
subsidiary banks are located in eastern Tennessee; the other two 
subsidiary banks are in northwest Georgia. 
Hamilton Bank is located in Hamilton County, which comprises 
its primary service area. It has 16 offices with approximately 
$224 million in deposits. Only two other banks are located in 
Hamilton County, one with 12 offices and approximately $178 million 
in deposits, and the other with eight offices and $62 million deposits. 
All three are full service banks and are competitive in all respects. 
Applicant's nearest subsidiaries to Hamilton Bank are 
located in Dalton, Georgia, and South Pittsburg, Tennessee. Each of 
these banks is approximately 28 miles from the nearest office of 
Hamilton Bank, and none of the present subsidiaries is located in Hamilton 
County. Competition between Applicant's subsidiaries and Hamilton 
Bank is negligible, and, in view of the Tennessee law which prohibits 
branching across county lines, the distance separating Hamilton Bank 
ai
*d the subsidiaries of Applicant, and the number of banks located in 
intervening areas, it appears that this would be true even in 
the absence of the present relationship between Applicant and 
Hamilton Bank. 
In the light of these facts, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a 
Monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, 
°
r
 attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any area. It 
d
°es not appear that consummation of the proposal would have the 
®ffect of substantially lessening competition or tending to create a 

1244 
-4-
monopoly in any section of the country, or would in any manner be 
in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant, 
its present subsidiary banks and Hamilton Bank are satisfactory. 
Applicant and Hamilton Bank already have common management to a large 
extent, and no change in that respect is anticipated as a result of 
the proposed acquisition. The principal change in the operations of 
Applicant would be that, with Hamilton Bank as a subsidiary, a broader 
market could be established for Applicant's stock. 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with 
approval of the application, and lend some weight in favor of 
approval in that Applicant would gain somewhat greater access to 
capital markets. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - There 
is no evidence of unserved needs, nor does Applicant suggest that 
the proposed affiliation will fulfill any unserved needs of the 
communities of Hamilton County or the communities served by Applicant's 
S u
bsidiary banks. Hamilton Bank presently serves as correspondent, 
loan participant, and management consultant to subsidiaries of 
Applicant, and, while the present proposal may to some extent 
facilitate such co-operative efforts and permit some internal economies, 
significant changes are anticipated in the services of either 
Hamilton Bank or the present subsidiaries. 

•
M
l 
• 
1245 
-5. 
1 
• 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
1
"""""
 
1 1
 " "
L
 " • 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the "factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
A
P*il 9, 1969. 

1246 
Item No. 2 
4/9/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The First National Bank of Rice Lake, 
Rice Lake, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Wisconsin 
Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National 
Bank of Rice Lake, Rice Lake, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval 
of the application. 

1217 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 2, 1968 (33 Federal Register 16130), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing commec.ts and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 
9th day of April, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1218 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF RICE LAKE, RICE LAKE, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has 
applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for 
prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of The First National Bank of Rice Lake, Rice Lake, 
Wisconsin ("First National"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and re-
peated his views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recom-
mended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
Provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
0 r
 conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 

1 
-2-
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or V 7 h i c h in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
which controls 12 banks with total deposits of $1.3 billion,-^ is 
the largest banking organization in the State of Wisconsin, and 
accounts for 16.5 per cent of the total deposits held by all banks 
in the State. The 11 largest banking organizations in the State, 
v
hich include 8 bank holding companies, control aggregate deposits 
about $3 billion, an amount equal to 38.5 per cent of the deposits 
held by all banks in the State. Consummation of the present proposal 
would increase the share of such deposits held by Applicant and by 
large banking organizations to 38.7 per cent. 
A/ Unless otherwise noted, all bank data are as of June 29, 1968, 
ac
*justed to reflect all holding company formations and acquisitions 
a
Pproved by the Board to date. 

- 3 -
First National, the only office of which is in Rice Lake, 
(Barron County), in the northwestern part of Wisconsin, has total 
deposits of $12.7 million. It is the larger of 2 banks in Rice Lake, 
a
nd the largest of 11 banks in Barron County. Its largest competi-
tors are the other bank in Rice Lake, which holds deposits of about 
$
7
 million, and two banks located 13 miles southwest of Rica Lake 
in the City of Barron, which have deposits of $6.5 million and 
$5.5 million, respectively. None of the banks in Barron County is 
a subsidiary of a bank holding company. 
Of Applicant's present subsidiary banks, 7 (accounting for 
over 95 per cent of the aggregate deposits of Applicant's subsidiaries) 
a r e
 located in the Milwaukee area, and all but 1 are located in the 
southeastern part of Wisconsin, and are over 200 miles from Rice Lake. 
0r
*e subsidiary, First Wisconsin National Bank of Eau Claire, is 
located in the northwestern part of the State, about 60 miles from 
p
irst National. One county intervenes Rice Lake and Eau Claire, and 
two banks larger than First National are located on the most direct 
r
oute between the two cities. It therefore does not appear that the 
Present proposal would eliminate any significant competition between 
p j 
r s t
 National and Applicants present subsidiary banks. Further, in 
v
iew of the restrictive provisions of Wisconsin law with respect to 
br 
a n
ching, the development of such competition in the future does not 
a
PPear likely, and potential competition would therefore not be 
a f
fected. 

1251 
-4-
Although First National is the largest bank within the 
area which it serves, it does not appear that it has, or would have 
a
s a result of the proposed affiliation, any decisive advantage over 
competing banks. It does not appear that First National has been an 
aggressive competitor, and any foreseeable change in its posture in 
this respect as a result of the present proposal is regarded as a 
favorable consideration, and \jould not appear to threaten undue 
adverse effects on competing banks. 
Summarizing the competitive effect of Applicant's proposal, 
it does not appear that the additional deposits which Applicant would 
control as a result of the proposed acquisition would significantly 
affect State-wide concentration; the acquisition would represent an 
expansion by Applicant into a new market, would not eliminate existing 
potential competition, and could increase the level of competition 
in the Barron County area without adversely affecting the viability 
o r
 competitive effectiveness of other banks in the area. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a raonop-
°iy or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not re-
strain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant is satisfactory, 

as are those of its subsidiary banks, and the prospects of Applicant 
and its subsidiaries are regarded as favorable. 
The financial condition of First National is satisfactory, 
and its prospects are generally favorable. The top management of 
the bank is at or near the usual retirement age, however, and it 
does not appear that capable replacements are available from its 
Present staff. In part, this lack of depth appears to be a result 
a low salary level which the bank has maintained in the past, which 
is further reflected in an employees
1
 strike which was only recently 
settled. In meeting its future management needs, First National would 
he benefitted by Applicant's ability to supply trained personnel, and 
* 
the bank would also benefit from the expansion and improvement of its 
i • 
• 
i
:
 
* 
services which Applicant indicates would be initiated. 
Considerations under the banking factors provide some weight 
in favor of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience 
needs of customers served by its present subsidiary banks. 
Rice Lake (population 7,600) is the largest community in 
Barron County. The economy of the county is basically agricultural, 
although some small industries and several plants of major corpora-
tions are located in Rice Lake. There is no evidence of major un-
served banking 
needs in the area. It does appear, however, that some 
*
a
rger borrowers in the area cannot be fully accommodated locally 
* J? 
. 

-3-
because their needs exceed the legal lending limits of area banks, 
and there are also indications that First National has not been 
aggressive in searching out and meeting the banking needs of the 
area. 
A large volume of business is done in the area by non-bank 
lenders, while First National has maintained a loans-to-deposits 
ratio of about 40 per cent, which is significantly below that of 
other Wisconsin banks. Applicant asserts that lending by First 
National could be expanded by at least $1 million, to the benefit 
of both the bank and the community. In addition, it is comtemplated 
that more 
s o p h i s t i c a t e d credit analysis techniques and charge-card 
services would be introduced, that international banking services 
would be made available to customers of First National (some of whom 
are presently serving foreign markets), and that trust services would 
be made available through one of Applicant's other subsidiaries. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the community served by First National provide some weight in favor 
of approval of the application. 
Snn-marv and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judj-ment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
April 9, 1969. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
m 
15 1959 
Herbert E. Hoffman, Esq., 
Chief, Legislative and Legal Section, 
Office of the Deputy Attorney General, 
Washington, D. C. 20540 
Dear Mr. Hoffman: 
This is in further reference to your letter of December 5, 
1968, requesting the views and comments of the Board of Governors on 
a draft bill, "To amend title 28, United States Code, so as to autho-
rize the issuance of warrants for administrative inspections autho-
rized by laws of the United States or regulations thereunder, and for 
seizures appropriate to such inspections." 
The Federal Reserve System conducts examinations and inspec-
tions in connection with the administration and supervision of banks 
and banking. In addition, the Board is authorized to make administra-
tive inspections as part of its regulation, under the Securities Ex-
change Act of 1934, of stock market credit and of the trading of 
securities of certain member State banks. Regarding the former func-
tions, the Board considers its authority to inspect as without the 
scope of the rule of U.S. v Stanack Sales Co., Inc. 387 F2d 849 
(3d Cir. 1968)) and requests that such inspections as are not presently 
covered by an exemption, be excepted from the draft bill. 
The Federal Reserve System has the authority and responsibility 
under statute and regulation to accept banks for membership in the System 
(section 9, Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321-338), Federal Reserve 
Regulation H, (12 CFR 208)); to approve the organization and various 
operations of certain foreign banking corporations (section 25 and 25(a) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 601-604a, 611-631), Federal Reserve Regulation K 
(12 CFR 211)); and to approve the formation and subsequent growth of 
certain bank holding companies (section 3, Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842), Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222)). 

io r r 
Herbert E. Hoffman, Esq. 
- 2 -
Action by the Board under the foregoing authority is tanta-
mount to the granting or renewal of a license. Accordingly, periodic 
examinations or inspections of such persons would appear to be excluded 
from the draft bill's definition of "administrative inspections" to the 
extent that they are a condition of the issuance or renewal of a li-
cense. Moreover, since such persons typically subject themselves to 
the Board's jurisdiction by virtue of their own application, and, as 
is the case with banks seeking membership in the Federal Reserve System, 
accept such continuing examination as a condition of membership, these 
visitations should be construed as having been made with the consent of 
the subject of the examination and, therefore, excepted altogether from 
the provisions of the draft bill. Similar reasoning would obtain in 
connection with examinations and inspections conducted by the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation respecting 
the grant of national bank charters and federally insured status. 
Since the Board believes that the requirements of the proposed 
warrant procedure could unduly restrict a Federal bank examination 
framework that has functioned effectively for decades, it is recommended 
that sec. 3002 of the draft bill be amended, as follows, to clarify 
that a warrant is not required unless the Board should desire to use 
such procedure with respect to the type of examinations discussed above: 
"SEC. 3002. Exceptions. * * * or (6) with 
regard to examinations of banks, banking insti-
tutions, and their subsidiaries or affiliates 
by officers and employees of the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System and the 
Federal Reserve Banks, the Comptroller of the 
Currency or Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion when such examination is authorized by 
statute or regulation." 
Under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Federal Reserve 
Regulation F (15 U.S.C. 78, 12 CFR 206), the Board has authority to 
conduct investigations of member State banks who have registered their 
securities with the Board pursuant to the requirements of section 12(g) 
of the Act. Such inspections would be made pursuant to lawful subpoenas 
°r demands issued by the Board and enforceable by court order. As these 
Procedural safeguards are similar to the requirements of the draft bill, 
the Board believes the exception contained in sec. 3001(d)(5) is desir-
able and appropriate to prevent unnecessary duplication. 

Herbert E. Hoffman, Esq. 
- 3 -
With respect to its authority to regulate securities credit 
under section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and margin 
Regulations G , T , and U (12 CFR 207, 220 and 221), the Board notes 
that the framework of the proposed legislation may be a desirable method 
of facilitating certain administrative inspections that the Board is 
authorized to conduct pursuant to section 17(b) of the A c t . 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary.-

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
•ffet&V 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 4 
4/9/69 
April 9, 1969 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today it has postponed indefinitely the construction on 
a more than $30 million annex to be situated immediately north of 
its present building on Constitution Avenue in Washington. This has 
been done to minimize competition for scarce goods and services during 
the current inflationary period. 
At the same time, the Board said it was requesting the 
Federal Reserve Banks and Branches throughout the country to defer 
or reduce construction programs to the maximum extent practicable. 
The Board's annex will eventually be built on a site between 
20th and 21st Streets directly across C Street from the present building 
The annex has already been approved by the Fine Arts Commission and the 
National Capital Planning Commission. Construction had been scheduled 
to begin this year with completion in 1971. 
-0-

v ,»•;. '. 
B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1 2 3 8 
Item No. 5 
4/9/69 
Z-6871 (On office 
copies only) 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 11, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
There is quoted below for your information the text of the Board's 
Ptess release dated April 9, 1969, previously transmitted to you by wire, 
an
nouncing that the Board had postponed indefinitely the construction of its 
jjnnex building and that it was requesting the Federal Reserve Banks and 
anches to defer or reduce construction programs to the maximum extent 
Practicable. 
"The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today it has postponed indefinitely the construction 
on a more than $30 million annex to be situated immediately 
north of its present building on Constitution Avenue in Washington. 
This has been done to minimize competition for scarce goods and 
services during the current inflationary period. 
At the same time, the Board said it was requesting the 
Federal Reserve Banks and Branches throughout the country to 
defer or reduce construction programs to the maximum extent 
Practicable. 
The Board's annex will eventually be built on a site between 
20th and 21st Streets directly across C Street from the present 
building. The annex has already been approved by the Fine Arts 
Commission and the National Capital Planning Commission. Con-
struction had been scheduled to begin this year with completion 
in 1971." 
Very truly yours, 
'(T-W*. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE HANKS 
