Minutes for March 3, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 
Amendment to Regulation K, Corporations 
Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Changes from draft minutes: 
Page 4 - Editorial changes in paragraph beginning at bottom of page 4. 
Page 5 - Editorial changes in first and third complete paragraphs. 
Page 12 - Editorial changes in last incomplete paragraph. 

6 5 G 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 3, 1970. The Board met in the Special 
Library at 9:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs, Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Certain other members of the staff entered the 
room when items for which they had responsibility 
were discussed and withdrew when consideration of 
those items was concluded. 
Reserve Bank expenses. Mr. Holland referred to a request 
received from Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and 
Currency for various data on 1969 expenditures by the Federal Reserve 
Banks, including those charged to the travel and "all other" accounts. 
Material had now been assembled for transmittal in response to the 
request. 
There ensued a discussion of the nature of the material being 
sent and the manner in which it was proposed to develop further informa-
tion in response to such questions as the Committee staff might raise. 
(Note: A copy of the letter subsequently sent to Chairman 
Patman is attached as Item No. 1.) 
It was noted, during the foregoing discussion, that the Thrift 
Plan of the Federal Reserve Banks had not gone into effect until the 
beginning of 1970, although the adoption of the plan would be mentioned 
in the Board's Annual Report for 1969, The operation of the plan was 
reviewed briefly, in particular its availability to Board employees, and 
Chairman Burns indicated that he would acquaint himself further with 
the details. 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
Implications of Dickinson decision. In a memorandum dated 
February 19, 1970, the Legal Division pointed out that the recent 
Supreme Court decision in First National Bank v. Dickinson brought 
into question the validity of the Board's interpretations (1) that the 
typical armored-car pick-up services of State member banks do not consti-
tute branch banking within the meaning of the Federal branching statutes, 
and (2) that "loan production offices" do not involve branch banking. 
The Division suggested that the Board reconsider its interpretations. 
In essence the position now recommended was that any bank-controlled 
facility that provides bank customers, regularly or continuously, with 
opportunity to make deposits, or have checks paid, or arrange for loans, 
is a "branch" for purposes of section 5155 of the United States Revised 
Statutes, even if a "final" step takes place at the bank's head office 
(in the absence of the customer). The legal staff of the Comptroller 
of the Currency reportedly took the view that the Dickinson decision 
applied only when the same peculiar facts were presented. The staff of 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had taken no position. It was 
suggested by the legal staffs of the three agencies that the question 
be referred to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. In a memo-
randum dated February 27 Mr. Hexter mentioned a number of alternatives 
that might be considered in the event the Board did not wish to adopt 
the position recommended. 
In discussion Mr. O'Connell noted that the Supreme Court had 
looked beyond the contract between the bank and its customer, providing 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
for liability only when the money reached the bank, to the actual sub-
stance of the transaction. The position outlined in the Legal Division's 
memorandum reflected a tight legal judgment that the Dickinson decision 
certainly was applicable to the armored car service interpretations 
previously issued by the Board and that it could and should be construed 
to apply to the other operations mentioned in the memorandum. The 
decision provided a vehicle, if the Board wished to use it, to revisit 
the policy decisions with regard to loan production offices and opera-
tions subsidiaries. However, it was his individual judgment that the 
Board could quite reasonably limit application of the Dickinson decision, 
and that the specifics involved in the operation of loan production 
offices were sufficiently distinguishing to support a position that the 
Dickinson decision did not mandate reversal of that interpretation. 
Expressions by members of the Board indicated that several would 
regard reversal of the previous rulings as a move in the wrong direction 
policywise. A position such as Mr. O'Connell had said was tenable appeared 
appropriate to them, and also to have the merit of not running directly 
counter to the view it appeared probable that the Comptroller would 
adopt. One member advocated that the adjustment necessary to conform 
to the Supreme Court's decision be held to a minimum, and that every 
effort be made to achieve uniformity with the Comptroller. 
Other members of the Board (Governors Robertson and Brimmer) 
felt that the Court decision left little or no alternative to taking 
steps along the lines suggested by the Legal Division. They regarded 

6 ( i 0 
3/3/70 
-5-
the matter as one where policy considerations must be subordinated; if 
the Board regarded the law as inappropriate, the proper recourse would 
be to seek corrective legislation. Governor Brimmer also suggested that 
the staff narrow the range of reasonable alternatives to assist the Board 
in determining the latitude available to accommodate its rulings to the 
Court's decision. 
Governor Robertson suggested the possibility of seeking an opinion 
from the Attorney General. However, reservations were expressed about 
such a procedure in principle, along with technical questions that might 
be involved if at some stage it was considered desirable to obtain such 
advice. 
Other comments had to do with the appropriateness of further 
interagency staff discussion, a view being expressed that any such dis-
cussions should be confined to legal aspects, and that even those probably 
should be preceded by determination by the Board of its policy stance. 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that the Board 
would consider, on the basis of additional material to be supplied by 
staff, interagency discussion of the legal implications of the Court 
decision for the rulings regarding armored car services. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Minneapolis, 

3/3/70 
-11-
Kansas City, and Dallas on February 26, 1970, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago on February 26 had estab-
lished a rate of 7-1/2 per cent, rather than 7 per cent, on advances 
to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than member banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Other rates of the Bank were established without change. 
The rates established by the Chicago Reserve Bank were approved 
unanimously, effective March 4, 1970, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to all Federal Reserve Banks. 
Charter New York Corporation and Bankers Trust New York 
Corporation. On February 24, 1970, the Board approved the following 
applications: 
by Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire all of the voting shares of Central Trust 
Company Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, New York; 
by Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, 
New York, to acquire all of the shares of Bankers 
Trust Company of Rochester, Rochester, New York, a 
proposed new bank; 
by Bankers Trust Company of Rochester to acquire four 
of the present offices of Central Trust Company Rochester, 
N. Y.; and 
by Bankers Trust Company of Rochester for membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
The staff had now prepared drafts of orders and a statement reflecting 
approval of the first three applications listed. A dissenting statement. 
by Governors Robertson and Brimmer had also been prepared. 

3/3/70 
-11-
Mr. 0'Connell stated that on March 2, 1970, publication require-
ments with respect to the merger into Bankers Trust Company of Rochester 
of four of the present offices of Central Trust Company had been completed. 
(It had been understood that the Board's order approving the merger would 
not be issued until the publication requirements had been fulfilled.) 
After a discussion during which there was agreement on a change 
of wording at one point in the statement for purpose of clarification, 
the issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. Copies of the 
documents, in the form in which they were subsequently issued, are 
attached under Item No. 2, along with a copy of the dissenting statement 
of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. A copy of the letter notifying 
Bankers Trust Company of Rochester of the Board's approval of its appli-
cation for membership in the System is attached as Item No. 3. 
First Midwest Bancorp. Following consideration of staff material 
that had been distributed, the Board approved unanimously an application 
by First Midwest Bancorp., Inc., St. Joseph, Missouri, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of all of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the following Missouri banks: the 
successor by merger to The First National Bank of St. Joseph, St. Joseph; 
First Stock Yards Bank, South St. Joseph; and The First Trust Bank, 
St. Joseph. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
Amendment to Regulation K. The Board's Regulation K, Corpora-
tions Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve 
Act, limits the total liabilities of any one borrower to an Edge corpo-
ration to 50 per cent of the Edge corporation's capital and surplus, or 
10 per cent thereof if it is engaged in banking. Exemptions are provided 
for obligations of "The United States or any department, agency, or estab-
lishment thereof or corporation wholly owned thereby," and certain other 
organizations. 
Continental Bank International, New York, New York, had inquired 
whether the Board concurred with its counsel's opinion that obligations 
supported by Foreign Credit Insurance Association comprehensive risk 
insurance (covering both commercial credit and policital risk) are, to 
the extent of such insurance, within the exemptions provided. The Associa-
tion is a joint enterprise of the Export-Import Bank of Washington and 
a group of some 70 United States insurance companies; it insures the 
credit and political risks on the financing of United States exports. The 
Edge corporation also requested that the Board specify an exemption for 
obligations supported only by political risk insurance of the Associa-
tion, and/or the entire amount of an obligation supported by a compre-
hensive risk policy of the Association for only part of the obligation. 
In a memorandum dated February 24, 1970, the Legal Division 
recommended (1) that Regulation K be amended to make clear that obli-
gations are exempt from the loan limits of the Regulation to the extent 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
that they are insured against foreign political and credit risks by the 
Foreign Credit Insurance Association, and (2) that the Board not specify 
obligations supported only by the Association's political risk insurance 
or obligations only partially insured for comprehensive risk as exempt 
from the loan limitations, since the uninsured portions are subject to 
the same credit risk as uninsured loans. Attached were drafts of an 
amendment to Regulation K and a letter to Continental Bank International 
reflecting these recommendations. 
After discussion, the amendment to Regulation K was approved 
unanimously, effective immediately. A copy of the amendment in the form 
in which it was sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 4. 
The letter to Continental Bank International was also approved unanimously; 
a copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
Status of American International Bank (Bahamas). The Legal 
Division presented in a memorandum dated February 24, 1970, a question 
raised by counsel for American International Bank, New York, New York 
(an Edge corporation), whether its wholly-owned subsidiary, American 
International Bank (Bahamas), Limited, would be a "bank" within the mean-
ing of section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. If the 
answer was affirmative, the parent holding companies of two banks that 
each held 35 per cent in the Edge corporation would be required to 
register as bank holding companies. 
The Board's consent in 1969 to purchase the Bahamian institu-
tion imposed the standard condition requiring that it restrict its 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
operations to those permissible for its parent Edge corporation, and 
thus it could transact in the United States only such business as was 
incidental to its foreign operations. Section 2(c) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act excludes from the term "bank" any Edge corporation or any 
organization that does not do business within the United States. One 
of the chief goals of the Act was the separation of banking from non-
banking business, within the United States, and the exclusion of Edge 
corporations from the coverage of the Act indicated that Congress did 
not consider the scope of their activities to violate that purpose. 
Therefore, the Legal Division concluded that the exclusion could reason-
ably be construed to include subsidiaries of Edge corporations where 
their activities were confined to those permissible to their parents. 
A draft letter in those terms was attached. 
After discussion the letter was approved unanimously; a copy 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Shipments of currency to Culpeper. Pursuant to the Board's 
request at the meeting on February 12, 1970, Mr. Farrell submitted with 
a memorandum dated February 25 additional material prepared by the Divi-
sion of Federal Reserve Bank Operations bearing upon the proposal to 
ship reserve supplies of Federal Reserve notes to the storage facility 
at Culpeper, Virginia. 
The basic question was whether currency should be shipped to 
Culpeper in the absence of commitments by the Department of Defense 

3/3/70 
-11-
and/or the Virginia State Police to provide a rescue force in the event 
of an attack on the Culpeper facility. The Division, the Board's Security 
Consultant (Mr. Bouck), and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond agreed 
- •• ^ 
that such arrangements would be desirable and that efforts to work them 
out should continue. However, they felt that currency could be stored 
at Culpeper with reasonable security in the absence of such arrangements, 
particularly in the light of assurance by the State Police that 15 to 
30 State troopers could be made available within half an hour under 
ordinary arrangements. Accordingly, it was recommended that the Board 
approve the commencement of currency shipments to Culpeper as soon as 
arrangements were made for a tamper-proof telephone line from the facility 
to Richmond. 
During discussion it was stated that there was at least a respite, 
due to a shift in production schedules, in the storage problem at the 
Bureau of Engraving and Printing, which had been one of the reasons 
arguing for commencing shipments to Culpeper promptly. Difficulties that 
had been encountered in obtaining commitments by the Defense Department 
and by State authorities for assistance to the Culpeper facility in an 
emergency were described. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that Chair-
man Burns would endeavor to expedite the desired commitment from the 
Department of Defense. 

GSS 
3/3/70 
-13-
Audit of financial statements. On February 18, 1970, the 
Secretary had distributed documents entitled (1) Financial Statements 
for the year ended December 31, 1969, and Report Thereon, and (2) Report 
on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements for the year ended Decem-
ber 31, 1969, both submitted by Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery follow-
ing that firm's audit of the Board's accounts for the year 1969. 
Mr. Kakalec called attention to the need for a clarifying language 
change, to which the auditors had agreed, in a footnote in one of the 
documents. Subject to that change the reports were accepted, and it was 
understood that copies would be transmitted to the Chairmen of the Senate 
and House Banking and Currency Committees. A copy of the letter subse-
quently sent to the Chairman of the Senate Committee is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Proposed delegations of authority. In memoranda dated February 25 
and March 2, 1970, Governor Sherrill recommended a number of additional 
delegations of authority in the foreign banking area. 
Question was raised by Governor Mitchell whether additional 
delegations of authority in the foreign area might not contribute to 
delay in developing and considering proposed amendments to Regula-
tion K (Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under 
the Federal Reserve Act), particularly for the purpose of broadening 
the "general consent" provisions. The amount of time that might be 
required before decisions on regulatory provisions could be reached was 
explored to some extent, but full discussion of the matter was precluded 

G S S 
3/3/70 
-13-
since the Board was to meet after this meeting with representatives of 
the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks. Therefore it was 
understood that further consideration would be given to the proposed 
delegations at another time. 
Members of the staff other than Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
New York building program. Governor Mitchell stated that while 
he was in New York last Friday he had discussed with officials of the 
Reserve Bank the program for lease terminations in the property being 
- - - • v. C " . .,) 
acquired for an annex building, and that the Bank was prepared to submit 
appropriate documentation for the Board's consideration. In addition, 
he had found that the Bank had commissioned models of the proposed 
annex building, which representatives of the Bank would be prepared to 
bring to Washington for review by the Board if desired. 
It was agreed that such arrangements should be made. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

••^figgSSfc-
BOARD OF D OVER N 0 R 5 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No, 
3/3/70 
O F F I C E O F THE 
C H A I R M A N 
March 3, 1970 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, Committee on 
Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
2129 Rayburn House Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In response to the requests contained in your letter of 
January 22, 1970, there are enclosed the following data for the 
calendar year 1969: 
a. A listing showing the breakdown of expenditures 
by account for each Federal Reserve Bank and 
branch within the System. 
b. Item-by-item listings of Travel and All Other 
expenditures for each Bank and branch. 
Due to time constraints and the volume of material requested, 
justifications for these expenditures have not been given at this 
time but will be furnished as requested in accordance with 
previous discussions with your staff. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosures. 

6 7 0 
Item No. 2 
3/3/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
New York, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of all 
of the voting shares of Central 
Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., 
Rochester, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF 
BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Charter New York 
Corporation, New York, New York ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares of Central 
Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, New York ("Bank"). 
On October 20, 1968, the Board denied an earlier application 
by Applicant to acquire shares of Bank, for competitive reasons fully 
discussed in a Statement which accompanied the Board's Order on that 
matter (1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 925). Subsequently, Applicant 

6 7 1 
- 2 -
filed the present application, by which it proposes, as a condition to 
approval of the transaction, that Bank will divest to a subsidiary to 
be established by Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York, 
v/hich also is a registered bank holding company, four identified offices, 
together with the banking business relating to those offices. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the. Board notified the 
New York Superintendent of Banks of receipt of the subject application 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Superintendent indicated 
that he favored approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 17, 1969 (34 Federal Register 16641), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
Ii. IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority, and provided 
further that sale of the aforementioned assets takes place simultaneously 
-
with Applicant's acquisition of the voting shares of Bank. 

6 7 2 
-3-
Dated at Uashington, D. C.j this 3rd day of Ilarch 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors MitchellDaane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

6 7 3 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION, 
New York, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of all of 
the voting shares of Bankers Trust 
Company of Rochester, Rochester, 
New York, a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bankers Trust 
New York Corporation, New York, New York, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all 
of the voting shares of Bankers Trust Company of Rochester, Rochester, 
New York, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York of the application 

- 2 -
6 7 4 
and requested his views and recommendation. The New York State Banking 
Board advised the Board of its action, consistent with a recommendation 
made to it by the Superintendent, approving an application filed 
pursuant to the New York Banking Law with respect to the same transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 9, 1969 (34 Federal Register 19479), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
XT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board1s 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, and 
provided further that (c) Bankers Trust Company of Rochester shall be 
open for business not later than six months after the date of this 
Order. The periods described in (b) and (c) hereof may be extended for 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 

6 7 5 
- 2 -
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

6 7 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANKERS TRUST COMPANY OF ROCHESTER, 
Rochester, New York, 
for approval of acquisition of assets 
of four offices of Central Trust 
Company Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, 
New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Bankers Trust 
Company of Rochester, Rochester, New York, a State member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of its acquisi-
tion of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of four offices 
0 i Central Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., Rochester New York, and, as 
an incident thereto, Bankers Trust Company of Rochester has applied, 
under section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 321), for the 
Board's prior approval of the establishment as branches of that bank 
of the four offices to be acquired. Notice of the proposed acquisition 
assets and assumption of deposit liabilities, in form approved by 
the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 

6 7 7 
- 2 -
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed transaction. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement accompanying its Order concerning the application of Bankers 
Trust New York Corporation to acquire voting shares of Bankers Trust 
Company of Rochester, that said applications be and hereby are approved, 
provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit 
liabilities and establishment of branches shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C,, this 3rd day of March 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

G 7 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY CHARTER NEW YORK CORPORATION AND 
BANKERS TRUST NEW YORK CORPORATION FOR APPROVAL OF THE 
ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF BANKS IN ROCHESTER, NEW YORK 
STATEMENT 
Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York ("Charter"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of all of 
the voting shares of Central Trust Company Rochester, N. Y., Rochester, 
New York ("Central Trust"). 
Bankers Trust New York Corporation, New York, New York 
("Bankers Trust"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board, pursuant to the same section, for prior approval of the 
acquisition of all of the voting shares of Bankers Trust Company of 
Rochester, Rochester, New York, a proposed new bank ("the new bank"). 
In a related application filed pursuant to the Bank Merger 
Act (12 U.S.C, 1320(c)), it is proposed that the new bank to be acquired 
by Bankers Trust would acquire four of the present offices of Central 
Trust, together with the banking business pertaining to such offices. 
In view of the relationship between the application of 
Charter and that of Bankers Trust, this Statement contains the Board's 
findings and conclusions with respect to both. 

6 7 9 
- 2 -
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Background. - On October 28, 1968, the Board, by a 4-3 vote, 
denied an earlier proposal by Charter to acquire voting shares of Central Trust, 
citing, among other considerations, the extent of banking concentration in the 
Rochester area and the fact that the financial and management resources 
°f Charter were such as to lead to the conclusion that it was among the 
ablest of a small number of organizations capable of entering into com-
petition in the Rochester area in a manner which would promote decon-
centration. The Board concluded that Charter's acquisition of Central 
Trust would eliminate that potential, and would raise additional barriers 

G 8 0 
- 2 -
to entry by others, and that the anticompetitive consequences of that 
proposal were not outweighed by any other considerations present in the 
record then before the Boardr 
It is proposed, under the present applications, to ameliorate 
the existing competitive situation in the Rochester area which contri-
buted to the Board's earlier adverse decision. This would be accomplished 
through the sale, simultaneous with Charter's acquisition of Central 
Trust, of four offices of Central Trust and the banking business pertain-
ing thereto to a purchaser who would establish a new bank in Rochester. 
In order to provide assurance that this could be accomplished, Charter 
entered into an agreement for the sale of such offices and business to 
Bankers Trust. The four offices involved are the Clinton office, 
Clinton Avenue, Rochester; the Ridge - Seneca office, Ridge Road East, 
Rochester; the Greece - Ridge office, Ridge Road Uest, Rochester; and 
the Williamson office, llain Street West, Williamson, New York. The 
Clinton office would become the head office of the new bank which Bankers 
Trust proposes to acquire under its application, and the three other 
offices would be operated as branches. The four offices have a total 
?3o million in deposits. Under the agreement, the new bank would 
assume these deposit liabilities, and would have assigned to it all 
loans and other assets of these offices. Provision has also been made 
for the orderly transfer of certain personnel from Central Trust to the 
new bank. 
Tq<;oTIie B o a r d' s Order and Statement in that matter are published at 
9 6 8 Federal Reserve Bulletin 925. 

G 8 l 
-4-
Views and recoinnendatixms of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Superinten-
dent of Banks of the State of New York of receipt of the applications, 
and requested his views and recommendations. The Superintendent noted 
that the New York State Banking Board, on his recommendation, had 
approved Charter's proposed acquisition of Central Trust in 1968, and 
he indicated that he continued to favor approval of that acquisition. 
The Board was subsequently advised that, on January 6, 1970, the New 
York State Banking Board approved an application, filed with it pursuant 
to Article III - A of the New York Banking Law, relating to Bankers 
Trust's proposal to acquire the new bank in Rochester; that action was 
also consistent with a recommendation of the Superintendent, a copy of 
which was provided to this Board. 
Competitive effect of proposed transactions. - Charter is the 
third largest bank holding company and the eighth largest banking 
organization in the State of New York, while Bankers Trust is the 
largest bank holding company and the fifth largest banking organization 
2/ 
^ the State.- 
Charter's subsidiary banks control 5.6 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in the State, a share which would be increased 
t o 5.8 per cent by consummation of the transactions contemplated by the 
subject applications; Bankers Trust's 7.5 per cent share of State 
deposits would not change materially. The State's 10 largest banking 
y 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and include bank holding 
ompany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-10-
organizations, among which are four bank holding companies, would hold 
02.1 per cent of State deposits, an increase from G1.3 per cent at 
present. 
Charter1s seven banking subsidiaries hold total deposits of 
$4.5 billion, and are located in the Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, 
Seventh, and Ninth Banking Districts of the State of New York. Bankers 
Trust has six subsidiary banks, with total deposits of $6 billion; its 
subsidiaries are located in New York's First, Second, Third, Fourth, 
and Ninth Banking Districts. 
Central Trust, with $196 million in deposits, is the fourth 
largest of five banks in the city of Rochester and of 31 banks in the 
Eighth Banking District. Its 16 offices account for about 13 per cent 
of the deposits held by 17 banks in the greater Rochester area, which 
consists of Monroe, Livingston, and Uayne Counties. Consummation of 
both of the subject proposals would result in Charter's acquisition 
of 12 Rochester area offices with $158 million in deposits (11 per cent 
of the area total); the $3G million in deposits held by the four 
offices to be acquired by Bankers Trust New York equals 2 per cent of 
the area total. 
The Board's Statement with respect to Charter's earlier 
proposal involving Central Trust reflected its conclusion that the 
effect of such acquisition on existing competition did not constitute 
a significant obstacle to approval of that application, based on the 
lack of any significant competition between Central Trust and 

6s3 
-10-
subsidiaries of Charter. The facts upon which that conclusion was based 
have not changed, and the conclusion therefore is equally applicable at 
this time. Similarly, Bankers Trust would, under its proposal, enter 
into significant competition in the Rochester area and the Eighth Banking 
District for the first time. 
The central issue raised by the present proposals is the 
extent to which the creation of a new bank, with immediate strength 
provided by the divested assets and its status as a subsidiary of Bankers 
Trust, one of the State's major banking organizations, would have bene-
ficial competitive effects sufficient to moderate or eliminate those 
anticompetitive effects which the Board earlier foresaw as likely to 
result from Charter's acquisition of Central Trust. It is important, 
in that connection to recognize that the Charter and Bankers Trust 
Proposals are not only related, but interdependent. Bankers Trust's 
application to acquire the new bank is a direct outgrowth of its agree-
ment with Charter, which would enable the proposed new bank to achieve 
an immediate market position; unless Charter's application is approved, 
Bankers Trust does not contemplate acting on any authority which it may 
be given to acquire a new bank in Rochester. On the other hand, in the 
absence of approval of the Bankers Trust proposal, and in the absence of 
a similar proposal from another qualified purchaser of the assets to be 
divested, the considerations applicable to Charter's proposed acquisition 
Central Trust would be essentially the same as those which caused the 
board's denial of the proposal earlier. The issue, therefore, is whether 

6 8 4 
-7-
the public interest in a competitive banking system would be better 
served by the changes which would result from consummation of the two 
proposals than it would be by retaining the competitive status quo in 
the Rochester area. 
At present, five banks are headquartered in Rochester, the 
four largest of which are Lincoln Rochester Trust Company ($726 million 
deposits), a subsidiary of Lincoln First Banks Inc.; Marine Midland 
Trust Company ($434 million deposits), a subsidiary of Marine Midland 
Banks, Inc.,; Security Trust Company ($315 million deposits), a subsid-
iary of Security New York State Corporation; and Central Trust. The 
fifth bank in the city is First National Bank of Rochester, an indepen-
dent bank chartered in 1963, which has total deposits of $13 million. 
The three largest Rochester banks hold about G2 per cent of the 
deposits of the greater Rochester area, and the four largest account 
for about 95 per cent. 
The subject proposals would result in six banks being located 
in Rochester, and would create a new competitor which would be the 
fifth largest in the entire Eighth Banking District. The market share 
°f the three largest banks would not immediately be affected; the 
share of area deposits held by the four largest, however, would be 
decreased from 95 per cent to 93 per cent. More important than this, 
however, the new bank, which would become the area's fifth largest, 
would likely possess a competitive capability much greater than that 
reflected by its $3C million of deposits and 2 per cent market share, 

6 s 5 
-3-
because of its ability to draw upon the resources and expertise of one 
of the largest banking organizations in the State. For similar reasons, 
the competitive ability of Central Trust would be enhanced by its 
affiliation with Charter. The result would likely be an eventual 
decrease in banking concentration in the area, and an immediate signi-
ficant increase in the number of alternative sources of full banking 
services. Five holding companies would be represented by subsidiaries 
in the area. Three of these are Statewide organizations, and two, the 
parent companies of the area's largest and third largest banks, are 
regional organizations with operations centered in the upstate area. 
These changes in the present competitive situation are regarded as 
weighing in favor of approval of the two applications. 
In the Statement with respect to Charter's earlier application, 
the Board cited other considerations adverse to the proposal which are 
not entirely eliminated by the actions now contemplated. The Department 
of Justice, in a letter to the Board presenting its views on the 
subject proposals, stressed these effects, and concluded that, since 
they would not be eliminated under the present applications, the pro-
Posed acquisitions "would have an adverse effect on potential competi-
tion in Rochester, the Eighth District, and in other areas of upstate 
New York." The considerations cited by the Department are: 
"that the proposed acquisition would tend to concen-
trate leading market positions in adjacent areas among a 
few giant banking institutions, raise barriers to entry 
in the Rochester area, eliminate Charter as a potential 
entrant into the area in a manner more consistent with 

6 S B 
-9-
the fostering of competition among as many able competi-
tors as possible, and eliminate one of the very few 
remaining independent banks in upstate New York capable 
of becoming a principal member of a new institution 
capable of providing competition on a regional basis to 
Charter and the other large holding companies which 
dominate the major banking markets in upstate New York." 
The concern which the Board has expressed in several cases 
with respect to the expansion of a State's largest banking organizations 
through acquisition of banks which rank among the largest in concen-
trated markets stems from the Board's judgment that such organizations 
have the potential for entry into competition through means which can 
achieve meaningful deconcentration, and that such potential will be 
unrealized if they are authorized to pursue easier, but less publicly 
beneficial, avenues of expansion. 
In the present case, however, Charter's acquisition, coupled 
with the proposed divestiture, would result in immediate beneficial 
effects on area competition and a greatly enhanced potential for further 
deconcentration in the future. Uhile Charter would be eliminated as a 
potential de novo competitor, Bankers Trust's potential would be 
realized. Although Charter and Bankers Trust might each be regarded 
as potential competitors in the Rochester area, the entry of either 
through a de novo acquisition would reduce the likelihood that the other 
would enter in a similar manner. Since the potential of the two 
Applicants is, therefore, more properly regarded as alternative rather 
than joint, it would be an oversimplification to regard the fact that 
the proposals would add only one actual competitor to the market, while 

-10-
eliminating t\70 potential competitors, as a consideration adverse to 
their approval. Also, the fact that entry barriers would to some extent 
be increased is not in itself a significant impediment to approval of 
a proposal with significant procompetitive effects. To some extent, 
new entry by any method, particularly by large organizations, decreases 
the attractiveness of an area to other potential competitors; that 
effect must be weighed together with other effects of the proposal to 
arrive at a conclusion regarding the overall effects on competition. 
It is true that the acquisition of Central Trust by Charter 
would eliminate that bank as a possible participant in a new holding 
company which could compete with the applicants and other large organ-
isations, not only in Rochester, but in other upstate areas. In view 
of the limited number of remaining independent banks in the upstate 
area of a size comparable to that of Central Trust, that effect is a 
matter of some concern, in that it eliminates a potential for increased 
competition in upstate areas in which such an organization might effect 
entry. But, in the Board's judgment, the instant proposals should not 
be condemned on that basis alone. Any proposal involving one of the 
few large banks remaining in upstate New York is likely to present 
potential effects in some areas which, by comparison with the effects 
likely to result from possible alternatives, are at least potentially 
adverse to competition. For example, if Central Trust were to become a 
participant in a regional holding company, the effects on competition 
in the Rochester area \70uld likely be less beneficial than those which 

-10-
would result from the instant proposals, since such a regional affiliation 
would not increase the number of competitors in Rochester, and might 
increase the barriers to entry by other organizations into that area. 
Yet such a proposal would not be barred for that reason alone. 
Neither is it essential, in the present case, to preserve the 
possibility of Central Trust's affiliation with a regional organization 
in order to prevent the domination of the Rochester area by Statewide 
organizations. While that might be a significant consideration in 
another context, it does not, in itself, constitute a bar to attainment 
of the procompetitive effects of the present applications, in view of 
the fact that the largest and third largest banks in the Rochester area 
are subsidiaries of such regional organizations. 
It appears that the limited anticompetitive effects which 
might arise from Applicant's proposals would primarily affect the 
broader upstate area, while the effects in the Rochester area would be 
significantly procompetitive. The Board has previously had occasion to 
express itself with respect to the weight which should be attributed to 
anticompetitive effects of a proposal which, while not insignificant, 
are not so serious as to violate the antitrust laws, and which are offset 
in the particular case by procompetitive effects which would result in 
another area. Its reasoning in that case is equally applicable to the 
present proposals: 
"when, as here, the anticompetitive effects of a proposal 
are not so substantial in any area as to violate the anti-
trust standard of the Act, it is clearly appropriate, in 

-10-
determining whether the public interest would be served by 
consummation of the transaction, to view the competitive 
considerations as consistent with that interest based on 
the overall effect of the proposal, rather than to condemn 
the entire proposal because of limited anticompetitive 
effects in a given area."3/ 
It is the Board's view that the overall effects of the subject 
proposals on competition would not be adverse. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the acquisitions proposed would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Charter, Bankers 
Trust, and present subsidiaries of each, are regarded as satisfactory. 
The financial condition of Central Trust is reasonably satis-
factory, its management is satisfactory and its prospects appear 
favorable. However, the bank has, over the past several years, faced 
recurring requirements for additional capital. IJhile it has succeeded 
in meeting those needs without assistance in the past, and probably 
could do so in the future, the proposed affiliation with Charter would 
greatly facilitate its raising of such additional capital as will likely 
3/ Application of The B. N. Y. Company, Inc.. 1969 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 363, 367. 

G 9 0 
-13-
be needed in the future. Central Trust has also experienced some 
difficulty in attracting junior officers; consummation of the proposal 
would be of assistance to it in that regard, with beneficial effects 
on its operations and prospects. 
The new bank will be adequately capitalized, and will be 
staffed with personnel drawn from Central Trust, or furnished by Bankers 
Trust from other subsidiaries as required. The unusual nature of the 
proposal presents some uncertainties which are not presented with respect 
to established institutions of the size with which the bank will commence 
operations. However, it seems apparent that the new bank will begin at a 
considerably advanced position relative to the usual de novo bank, and 
Bankers Trust has the resources to cope with any unforeseen problems 
which might develop. From its advanced starting point, the bank should 
become a significant competitor in the Rochester market within a rela-
tively short period of time, and its prospects are, therefore, regarded 
as favorable. These considerations provide some weight in favor of 
approval of the applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposals would not significantly affect the con-
venience or needs of customers served by present subsidiaries of Charter 
and Bankers Trust. 
It does not appear that there are any major banking needs of 
the Rochester area which are not being served by banks located there. 
However, expansion and improvements contemplated in the services offered 

6 9 1 
- 2 -
by Central Trust, and the creation of a new full service bank in the 
area as a result of Bankers Trust's proposal, will result in a signifi-
cant increase in the number of alternative sources providing area 
residents with virtually every important banking service. 
Charter proposes, through the greater facility with which 
participations may be arranged with its other subsidiaries, to increase 
the ability of Central Trust to serve the larger credit needs of devel-
oping businesses in the area, without restricting its continuing service 
to small and medium-sized area businesses. International banking 
services would be made available through the bank, and trust, consumer 
lending, and other domestic services would be expanded. Further, in 
order to provide assurance that its proposal will result in a net 
increase in the number of banking offices serving the greater Rochester 
area, Charter has indicated its intention, in the event its proposal is 
approved, to cause Central Trust to establish four new offices in the 
area, at the rate of not less than one per year. 
The new bank will provide all of the services now offered by 
the four offices of Central Trust, and, in addition, will have the 
potential for offering expanded services in competition not only with 
the three largest banks in Rochester, but also with Central Trust. Its 
establishment as an affiliate of Bankers Trust would create a new and 
competitive source of quality banking services in the Rochester area. 
These considerations weigh in favor of approval of the 
subject applications. 

- 2 -
6 9 2 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed transactions would be in the public interest, and that the 
applications should be approved. 
March 
3, 1970. 

(i33 
i 
DISSEHTI1IG STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS itOB^TSbU AND B&IMMER 
In October 1950, we joined in Board action denying an 
application by Charter lieu York Corporation for approval of its pro-
posed acquisition of Central Trust Company. The Board's Statement in 
support of its denial expressed concern over, and opposition to, any 
proposal that would tend toward the "creation of a banking structure 
consisting of a few ciant banking organisations competing only among 
themselves in a State's significant banking markets". The Board's State-
ment cited earlier Board action in May 1967 (affirmed on reconsideration 
in January I960), based on similar reasoning, that denied an application 
by BT New York Corporation to acquire voting shares of Liberty National 
Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo. The October I960 denial involved the 
same applicant (Charter Corporation) and the same proposed subsidiary 
bank (Central Trust Company) as here involved; the second applicant here 
(BT Hew York Corporation) was involved in the Hay 1967 denial; both 
earlier cases presented proposals by dominant banking organizations to 
acquire large banks in already highly concentrated major banking markets. 
These identical circumstances are presented by the instant applications. 
In our judgment, nothing in the proposal now before the Board warrants 
action differing in any way from the previous denial actions of the Board. 
The present applications contain precisely the same adverse 
competitive considerations that required denial of each of the earlier 
noted proposals. And, as in the earlier cases, the present applications 
are conspicuously lacking in any benefits that, as required by law for 
approval, could "clearly outweigh" the adverse competitive considerations. 

6 9 4 
- 2 -
One feature distinguishes the present proposal froia the earlier two proposals 
denied by the Board and makes the current proposal even weaker; now two large 
scale banking organizations, rather than one, will be eliminated as potential 
^e novo entrants into an already highly concentrated banking market. 
The apparency of pro-competitive features of the Charter 
Corporation-BT New York proposal, in our judgment, is effectively destroyed 
upon analysis of the record presented and a reasonable projection of the 
likely consequences of the acquisitions in question. It is asserted in 
support of these applications that, through Charter's acquisition of Central 
Trust and the simultaneous divestiture of four of that bank's offices and 
their acquisition by BT New York's subsidiary banks, a new and significant 
competitive force will be introduced into the Rochester market. A related 
assertion is that BT Hew York's acquisition constitutes a step toward decon-
eentration of the Rochester market of a nature sought by the Board's earlier 
Charter and BT New York denials. 
The validity of these assertions, in our judgment, is negated by 
the following facts. There are presently five major holding companies in 
New York State. At least two, and as many as four, are represented in each 
the four largest upstate markets: three in Albany; four in Syracuse; 
two in Buffalo; and two in Rochester. Consummation of the present proposals 
l;°uld increase to four the number of large size holding companies operating 
and from Rochester, Ue conclude that the asserted competitive advantage 
0j- adding a fifth major competitor to the Rochester market becomes meaning-
less because this proposal would continue the trend toward domination of up-
state markets by a small number of State-wide banking organizations. 

(>95 
-3-
As earlier noted, consummation of this proposal will eliminate 
one of the few remaining independent banks in upstate New York possessing 
the capacity to become a lead bank of a new holding company system capable 
of competing on a regional basis with the large holding companies now 
dominating this market. Existing entry barriers into Rochester and the 
State's Eighth Banking District will be significantly raised by consummation 
of these acquisitions. In contrast, the potential for entry into the 
Rochester area of certainly one, and possibly two, significant competitors 
in a manner far more consistent with future viable competition would be 
greatly enhanced if the applications are denied. 
Turning to a consideration of the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved, there is no evidence, and neither applicant seriously 
contends, that present banking facilities in the Rochester area are failing 
to respond adequately to all demands for major banking services. Charter 
lists some 100 services which would be initiated or expanded at Central 
Trust following consummation of the proposed acquisitions. Nearly one-half 
of the new services proposed pertain to international banking functions. 
Nearly 30 per cent of the services marked for improvement are presently 
available at other Rochester banks. A feature of the proposal that has 
been stressed by Applicant, but which appears to us to offer little in the 
Public interest, is Charter Company's intention to assist Central Trust in 
better serving loan demands in the Rochester area by providing some $20-
$25 million realized through retrenchment of real estate and construction 
loans by its lead bank, Irving Trust Company, New York City. With respect 

6 9 6 
- 2 -
to the latter proposal, as the Board noted in its 1963 Statement regarding 
the identical proposal, a contraction of credit in one sector of the 
economy - especially the hard-pressed mortgage sector - in order to meet 
no more deserving business credit demands in the Rochester area, provides 
no support for approval. 
Ue believe the record on the two applications before the Board 
evidences adverse potential competitive consequences - a conclusion in 
which the United States Department of Justice concurs. In these circum-
stances the Bank Holding Company Act mandates denial by the Board of such 
proposals unless it finds that such anti-competitive consequences are 
"clearly outweighed" in the public interest by the probable effects of the 
transactions in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. No such probable - and beneficial - effects have been evidenced 
v/ith respect to these proposals. 
Accordingly, we would deny both applications. 
March 3, 1970. 

G 9 7 
v/ov covV* • 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
3/3/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 4, 1970 
Organization Committee, 
Bankers Trust Company of Rochester, 
Rochester, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application made on behalf of Bankers Trust Company of Rochester, 
Rochester, New York, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with, the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $1.5 million, and other capital funds of not less 
than $3 million. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regula-
tion H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

6 9 8 
- 2 -
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors as well as a resolution ratifying the action which has been 
taken in the bank's behalf in making application for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. A certified copy of each resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Arrangements will 
thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required re-
serve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
i 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

6 9 9 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 4 
3/3/70 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. K] 
PART 211--CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN BANKING AND 
FINANCING UNDER THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
1. Effective immediately, section 211.9(b)(4)(i) is amended 
to read as follows: 
"(i) The United States or any department, agency, or estab-
i . 
lishment thereof or corporation wholly owned thereby (including 
obligat ions to the extent insured against foreign political and credit 
risks by the Export-Import Bank and the Foreign Credit Insurance 
Association), the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, 
the International Finance Corporation, the International Development 
Association, the Inter-American Development Bank;" 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to make clear that 
obligat ions to the extent insured against foreign political and credit 
risk by the Export-Import Bank and the Foreign Credit Insurance Associa-
tion are exempt from the limitations on loans to one borrower set forth 
in § 211.9(b). 
b. The procedures of section 553(b), Title 5, United States 
Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effec-
tive date were not followed because this amendment is interpretative 
in nature. 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 3, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
3/3/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T P 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 5, 1970 
Continental Bank International, 
71 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10006 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letter of June 4, 1969 inquiring 
whether obligations supported by the Foreign Credit Insurance 
Association's (FCIA) comprehensive risk insurance, to the extent 
of such insurance, are within the exceptions set forth in 
§ 211.9(b)(4)(i) of Regulation K. 
You also requested that, pursuant to § 211.9(b) of 
Regulation K, the Board specify obligations supported only by 
FCIA political risk insurance, as well as the uninsured portion 
of an obligation supported by an FCIA comprehensive risk policy, 
as exceptions to the loan limitations set forth in that paragraph. 
The Board has adopted the enclosed amendment to 
§ 211.9(b)(4)(i) of Regulation K to make clear that obligations 
to the extent insured by FCIA comprehensive risk insurance are 
exempt from the loan limitations of that paragraph. 
The Board does not deem it appropriate to specify 
obligations supported only by FCIA political risk insurance, or 
the uninsured portion of an obligation supported by an FCIA 
comprehensive risk policy, as exempt from the loan limitations 
of § 211.9(b) of Regulation K. The portions of the obligations 
not covered are exposed to the same credit risk as uninsured 
loans. However, another exemption in § 211.9(b) might apply to 
the uninsured portion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

7 0 1 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
3/3/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1970. 
St'r.asser, Spiegelberg, Fried & Frank, 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Re: American International Bank 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letter of September 23, 1969 requesting, 
as counsel for the American International Bank ("AIB"), a ruling to 
the effect that AJ.B' s wholly-owned subsidiary, American International 
Bank (Bahamas), Limited ("International") is not a "bank" within the 
meaning of § 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
AIB, a corporation organized under § 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, acquired all of International's stock (less directors' 
qualifying shares) pursuant to the Board's letter of consent dated 
April 23, 1969, which imposed the usual condition to the effect that 
International restrict its operations to those permitted to AIB. 
Section 2(c) exempts from the definition of "bank" any 
organization "operating under" § 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board has concluded that a subsidiary of a corporation organized 
under § 25(a) is within the scope of this exemption so long as the 
subsidiary's activities are restricted to those permitted to an Edge 
corporation. It was not necessary, in this case, to decide what 
conclusion would be called for in the case of a subsidiary as to 
which any of said restrictions had been ''waived" by the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
3/3/70 
Item No 
March 9, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr0 Chairman: 
In accordance with the practice followed for the 
past several years, there are enclosed copies of the reports 
made by the firm of public accountants that audited the ac-
counts of the Board of Governors of the Federal Preserve 
System for the year ended December 31, 1969. These include 
(1) Financial Statements and Report Thereon and (2) Report 
on Scope of Examination of Financial Statements. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosures 2 
