Minutes for 
August 17 
U :•>'• 
. • . • 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3251 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Plotkin, Porter, and Sanders, and 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, Hill, Lyon, Maguire, 
and Pounds tone, and Miss Greene of the 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Wood of the Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

11252 
8/17/67 
' 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting con-
sent to the purchase of additional shares of 
Banca Vonwiller, S.p.A., Milan, Italy. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Cor- 
2 
poration, New York, New York, relating to the 
refusal of that corporation to make certain 
information with respect to a wholly-owned 
Bahamian subsidiary available to examiners. 
Letter to Chairman Patman of the House Committee 
3 
on Banking and Currency responding to his inquiry 
regarding the advertising by banks of a "guaran-
teed" rate of interest on time deposits. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
4 
approving (1) revision of the head office and 
branch salary structures applicable to employees, 
and (2) a special Grade 16 maximum of $22,000. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
5 
approving the payment of salary to Carl C. Welke 
as Assistant Cashier at the rate fixed by the 
Bank's Board of Directors. 
In connection with Item No. 3, Governor Robertson noted that 
copies of the proposed reply to Chairman Patman had been sent to the 
heads of the other Federal bank supervisory agencies and the Home Loan 
Bank Board, and that transmittal of the reply would be deferred until 
tomorrow so that they would have an opportunity to make any comments. 
Reports on competitive factors. Transmittal of a report to 
the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of First National Bank in Montesano, Montesano, 
Washington, into National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, was 
i&proved unanimously, the conclusion being stated as follows: 

8/17/67 
-3-
<7 
no 
There is little competition between National Bank 
of Washington, Tacoma, a subsidiary of Western Bancor-
poration, Los Angeles, California, a registered bank 
holding company, and First National Bank in Montesano. 
Consummation of the proposed merger would increase 
slightly the already high level of banking concentra-
tion in the State of Washington. The overall effect 
of this proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
A modification of the conclusion having been agreed upon, 
unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of Central Arizona Bank, Casa Grande, Arizona, 
First Security Bank, Mesa, Arizona, and The Saguaro Bank, Tempe, 
Arizona, with The Guaranty Bank, Phoenix, Arizona, in a form in which 
the conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Central Arizona Bank, Casa 
Grande; First Security Bank, Mesa; and The Saguaro Bank, 
Tempe, with The Guaranty Bank, Phoenix, would eliminate 
existing and potential competition and would reduce the 
number of commercial banks in Arizona from 17 to 14. It 
is true that two large banks dominate banking business 
in the State, and consummation of this merger might enable 
the resulting bank to compete more effectively with the 
two largest banks. Nevertheless, the overall effect of 
the transaction on competition would be adverse. 
Application of First Virginia Corporation (Items 6-7). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on July 26, 1967, of the application of The First 
Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire voting shares 
°f The Bank of Craigsville, Inc., Craigsville, Virginia. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
°f the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 6 and 7. 

3254 
8/17/67 
' 
-4-
Bank accounting; practices. There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated August 15, 1967, from the Division of Examinations submit-
ting a draft of reply to a letter dated August 3, 1967, from Mr. E. T. 
Shipley, Comptroller, Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, who requested the Board's views on two bank accounting 
practices proposed in a draft of "Generally Accepted Accounting Princi-
ples for Banks" prepared by the American Institute of Certified Public 
Accountants. These were (1) that the market value of investment securi-
ties be disclosed in bank financial reports, and (2) that stock dividends 
be accounted for on the basis of the fair value of the shares issued. 
The consensus of opinion within the banking industry was reported by 
Mr. Shipley to be unfavorable. 
With respect to disclosure of market value of bank portfolio 
securities, the draft reply would explain why the Board's Regulation F 
(Securities of Member State Banks) did not require such disclosure, 
except that market value of securities classified less than "investment 
grade" must be furnished. It would also note that unless the unique 
characteristics of bank investments, as described in the draft reply, 
were fully understood a value indication in a period of severe market 
fluctuation might be misinterpreted to the detriment of the banking 
system, that omission of full market value disclosure would not pre-
clude measurement of the bank's investment earning power, and that no 
exception was taken to voluntary disclosure. 

8/17/67 
' 
-5-
With respect to the recommendation for fair value accounting 
of stock dividends, the draft reply would note that such a procedure 
would represent a departure from long-established bank accounting 
practices. It would then indicate why State member banks subject to 
Regulation F were permitted to account for stock dividends on the 
basis of the par value of the shares issued. 
Governor Mitchell said it seemed to him that if long-term 
bonds, for instance, were bought in quantity by a bank and subsequently 
depreciated in value, investors would be interested in such information 
because it would help them in appraising the bank's earning capacity 
and the value of the bank's stock. He suggested deleting certain sen-
tences from the draft letter so that the letter would simply contain a 
factual statement relating to why disclosure of market value was not 
required for Regulation F purposes. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that it was necessary to 
Weigh the adverse consequences as far as the investor was concerned 
against the adverse consequences of possible loss of confidence by the 
public in a period of market fluctuation. He referred to the 1938 
uniform agreement among the Federal bank supervisory agencies with 
respect to bank examination procedures in which there was established 
the principle of separating the appraisal of bank investments from 
current market quotations. He agreed, however, with the deletions 
Proposed by Governor Mitchell. 

3256 
8/17/67 
' 
-6-
In response to a question by Governor Mitchell as to the extent 
to which banks were making voluntary disclosure of market value, Mr. 
Sidman said a review of reports filed by State member banks pursuant 
to Regulation F indicated that approximately 25 per cent of the report-
ing banks furnished, in memorandum form, market value information per-
tinent to their securities investments. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that this was a relevant point and 
should be noted in the proposed reply. 
After further discussion, there was agreement with the changes 
suggested by Governor Mitchell. It was understood that the letter as 
thus revised would be referred to Governor Sherrill (Governor Robertson 
expecting to be on vacation) for consideration at the next meeting of 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation prior to transmittal of 
the letter to Mr. Shipley. 
Moody Foundation (Item No. 8). There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated August 11, 1967, from the Legal Division recommending 
that, for reasons discussed in the memorandum, the Board (1) adhere to 
the position that The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas, was a bank 
holding company and required to comply with the provisions of the Bank 
Holding Company Act; and (2) take the position that the proposal by 
fche Foundation to transfer its interest in W . L. Moody & Co., a private 
b a n k , to Moody National Bank of Galveston as trustee of the Moody Trust 
W o u l d 
n°t be effective, in view of section 2(g)(3) of the Act, to divest 

8/17/67 
' 
-7-
the Foundation of control of W . L. Moody & Co. and therefore would not 
terminate the Foundation's holding company status. Attached to the 
memorandum was a proposed letter to counsel for the Foundation. 
(The 
matter of the Foundation's status had been discussed most recently by 
the Board on June 7, 1967.) 
Mrs. Heller, in the course of reviewing the principal issues 
involved, recalled that in November 1966 the Board had concluded that 
a private unincorporated bank is a "bank" within the definition of 
that term in section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company Act, and that 
such a private unincorporated bank qualifies as one of the two or more 
banks that confer bank holding company status upon a company under the 
Provisions of sections 2(a)(1) and/or 2(a)(2) of the Act. 
In response to a question by Governor Robertson, she said it 
was her understanding that the Moody Foundation did not intend to con-
test the Board's determination. She further understood that if neces-
sary the Foundation would seek to terminate its holding company status 
through transfer in some manner of the deposits of W. L. Moody & Co. 
One possibility might be for Moody National Bank to take over the 
assets and liabilities of W . L. Moody & Co. The Foundation would be 
required to register by August 30, unless granted a further extension 
°f time, but it was generally understood that in the circumstances the 
r egistration need not be in as much detail as would be required where 
a company expected to continue in operation as a bank holding company. 

3258 
8/17/67 
' 
-8-
Messrs. Hackley and Hexter commented that if the question 
should ever be litigated there was a strong possibility, in their 
opinion, that the courts might conclude that a "private" bank was not 
a bank for purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. They cited provi-
sions of the Act that appeared relevant, along with indications of the 
intent of Congress in passing the holding company legislation. 
However, 
they agreed with the recommendation, as presented by Mrs. Heller, if 
the Board adhered to its previous determination on the private bank 
question. 
During the ensuing discussion members of the Board indicated 
that they favored adhering to the earlier determination on the private 
bank question, and thus also the position taken in the proposed letter. 
Governor Sherrill observed that he did not think the Bank Hold-
ing Company Act was intended to cover the type of situation involved 
in the Moody Foundation case. However, he could not construct a clear 
line of logic to exempt the Foundation, and therefore accepted the 
Legal Division's recommendation. Governor Daane agreed. 
There was agreement with a suggestion of Governor Robertson 
that in the circumstances the registration requirements should be 
applied leniently. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the letter to attorneys 
for The Moody Foundation, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 8. 
Either at this point or earlier, a number of staff members not 
concerned with the following topic withdrew from the meeting. 

3259 
8/17/67 
' 
-9-
Salary guidelines for Reserve Bank officers (Item No. 9). 
There had been distributed a draft of letter to the Chairmen and Presi-
dents of all Federal Reserve Banks transmitting general guidelines for 
use by the Boards of Directors of the respective Banks in requesting 
approval for proposed changes in officers' salaries. 
Governor Mitchell, Chairman of the Board's Committee on Organi-
zation, Compensation, and Building Plans, reviewed the proposed letter 
in terms of changes from the similar letter sent to the Reserve Banks 
last year. He called attention to the fact that one section of the 
letter would be devoted to setting forth a policy that might be followed 
in the approval of revised salary ranges for non-officer staff; the 
reaction of the Banks to this point of view would be sought. Another 
paragraph would relate to the community salary surveys for officer 
staff now being conducted, looking toward the establishment of appro-
priate salary ranges for 1968. 
Following agreement upon certain editorial changes, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Chairmen and Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 9. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Operation of parking lot. The Board considered a proposal with 
respect to the operation of the Board's parking lot described in a 
memorandum from the Director of the Division of Administrative Services 

8260 
8/17/67 
-io-
dated August 14, 1967, and upon recommendation by Governor Robertson, 
authorized the Division: 
(1) to enter into a contract with an experi-
enced parking lot manager for the operation of the lot on a compacted 
basis for a two-month trial period at $46 per day; (2) if at the end 
of the trial period this operation had proven satisfactory, to negoti-
ate an extended contract at an approximate cost of $57 per day for the 
period until the beginning of construction of the Board's annex build-
ing; and (3) to overexpend the affected budget accounts by the neces-
sary amounts. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
m t m e n t 
Josephine Tucci as Payroll Clerk, Office of the Controller, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, effective August 28, 1967. 
Transfer 
Dianne Robertson, from the position of Stenographer in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in 
the Office of the Secretary, with no change in basic annual salary at 
the rate of $4,269, effective August 21, 1967. 
-Acceptance of resignation 
Roger Craine, Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business August 25, 1967. 
On August 17, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
telegram, a copy of which is attached 
under the item number indicated: 

8/17/67 
-11-
By the General Counsel of the Board 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland approving the payment of fees 
to outside counsel in an amount not to 
exceed $25,000. 
. 1 U f 
Item No. 
10 
i i 
M 

:i2f>2 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/17/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
w 
A O O R C B S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 17, 1967, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
Corporation ("MGIBC") to purchase and hold an additional 100,000 
shares of the capital stock of Banca Vonwiller, S.p.A. ("Banca"), 
Milan, Italy, at a cost of approximately US$1,920,000, provided such 
stock is acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In 
this connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of 
such shares both in excess of 15 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus, and in excess of the limitations on the liabil-
ities of one borrower as set forth in section 211.9(a) of Regulation K . 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Banca by MGIBC is granted subject to the same conditions as 
set forth in the Board's letter of December 16, 1966. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of 
New York, and Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
lines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the prior-
ities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

fy.RESfcf.*' 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1967. 
Alfred W . Barth, Chairman, 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
N e w York, New York. 
10015 
D e a r Mr. Barth: 
- This is in reply to your letter of May 3, 1967, addressed 
0 Mr. Robert C. Thoman, Assistant Vice President of the Federal Re-
Se*"ve Bank of New York, which contained your comments concerning the 
Report of examination of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corpora-
°
n ("CMOBC") made on behalf of the Board of Governors as of the 
cl<>se of business October 28, 1966. 
In that report, the examiner noted that CMOBC has been 
Receiving information from and relating to the operations of The 
hase Manhattan Trust Corporation, Ltd., The Bahamas, a wholly-owned 
^hsidiary of CMOBC, but that, on the basis of the secrecy laws of 
h e Bahamas, CMOBC declined to make this material available to the 
®
xaminer. This refusal was determined by the examiner to be a vio-
lation of Section 211.9(g) of Regulation K. Your letter of May 3 
Quests the Board to reverse the position taken by its examiner. 
Section 211.9(f)--formerly Section 211.9(g)--of Regula-
l Q n K provides that: 
"Examiners appointed by the Board will examine each Cor-
poration at least once a year. Each Corporation shall 
obtain and make available to such examiners, among other 
things, information as to the earnings, finances, manage-
ment, and other relevant aspects of any organization 
whose shares it holds." 
The Board is of the opinion that the above-quoted language, 
that contained in Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, does 
q 
in any way restrict the scope of the Board's examinations of 
rPorations organized under Section 25(a). The second sentence of 
th
C t i°
n 
211.9(f) is intended to indicate the very broad character of 
t Q
e information that the Corporations are expected to maintain and 
make available to the Board's examiners regarding companies whose 
t Q c k they hold. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
32G4 
Alfred W. Barth 
-2-
In deleting from Regulation K the requirement that Corpora-
tions shall cause their subsidiaries to submit to examinations by the 
oard when so required, the Board did not abdicate its statutory re-
sPonsibility to supervise Corporations and their subsidiaries. 
This 
was made clear in the Board's press release of March 15, 1967, which 
accompanied the issuance of a revised version of Regulation M and 
Conforming amendments to Regulation K. In that press release the 
B°ard stated: 
"The Board further expects that member banks (and 
their foreign branches and affiliates) will conduct their 
activities, in the United States and abroad, on the basis 
of high standards of banking and financial prudence. 
Member banks are expected to make sufficient information 
available to the Board as will enable the Board to satisfy 
itself that those standards are being met." 
c 
Your letter also cited the case of In Application of The 
^ase_Manhattan Bank 297 F (2d) 611 (1962) relating to the issuance 
p
 
a subpoena and the production of records in the possession of 
ase Manhattan Bank's branch in Panama. The Board does not consider 
at case to be apposite. There the issue before the court was 
ether the bank was compelled to comply with a subpoena issued on 
half of the Government to the bank's head office in New York re-
Jj
 l ring production of certain records in the possession of the bank's 
ranch in Panama. On the other hand, in the present situation the 
formation which the Board's examiner wished to obtain was in the 
ssession of your Corporation in New York. The Board considers 
t r
a t 
t*
l e l
a w s 
the United States, and not of The Bahamas, are con-
°Hing with respect to information in the possession of a Corpora-
°
n subject to the jurisdiction of the United States. 
In the exercise of its statutory responsibilities, the 
^ard expects that all Corporations will maintain at their head of-
C e s all such information as is necessary for the proper administra-
Co°
n 
^ e i r subsidiaries. It also expects that all records of 
^Porations, including all such information on their subsidiaries, 
i be made available to the Board's examiners. 
In view of all the circumstances, the Board has concluded 
e 
it should not reverse the position taken in the last report of 
amination of your Corporation and that it was inconsistent with the 
atute and Regulation K for your Corporation to decline to make the 
°*mation available to the examiner. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3265 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 1 
8/17/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 18, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter to Chairman Martin of 
August 7, 1967, with respect to banks advertising a "guaranteed" 
rate of interest on time deposits. 
Under the Board's Regulation Q , a member bank may enter 
into a deposit contract under which the bank is obligated to pay 
interest at a specified rate on funds deposited for a specified time. 
If the bank's promise is unqualified in this respect--that is, it 
does not reserve the right to modify the contract—the bank may con-
tinue to pay the specified rate of interest throughout the life of 
the contract, even if the Board lowers the maximum permissible rate 
Prescribed in Regulation Q below such contract rate. 
In advertising deposit contracts of this kind, a number 
of banks refer to "guaranteed" interest. The principal purpose of 
using the term "guaranteed" is probably to stress the difference 
between interest on bank deposit accounts and dividends on savings 
and loan share accounts. 
A savings and loan association generally 
m a y not advertise that a specified rate of dividends will be paid for 
a future period. 
In the Board's view, there is no objection to a bank 
Pointing out this difference as long as it does not do so in a manner 
that states or implies that funds deposited in an insured bank are 
a safer investment than funds in an account in an insured savings and 
loan association. The Board does not consider that the use of the 
term "guaranteed" in itself carries such an implication. 
The Board is aware that the Securities and Exchange Commission 
has taken the position that the term "guaranteed" may be misleading. 
As the Board understands the SEC position, that agency believes that 
"guaranteed" implies that some third person is liable upon the instrument 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
and that such term should not be used by banks in their advertising 
for deposits unless the absence of a third-party guarantee is 
specifically noted. 
In the Board's view, there is a practical objection to 
imposing such a condition on use of the term "guaranteed". Banks 
might reasonably feel that they were being criticized for a practice 
that is widespread among merchants today and is employed by the 
United States Treasury in offering securities to the public. Almost 
daily, the public is offered "guaranteed" items when all that is 
meant is that the seller (not a third party) stands behind his product 
or service. In other words, the Board believes that, in this usage, 
"guaranteed" does not convey the idea of third-party backing. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

o o 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 1 
8/17/67 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Charles J . Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear M r . Scanlon: 
As requested in your letter of July 27, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structures at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Detroit Branch, effective 
September 1, 1967: 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1967 
Chicago 
Detroit 
Grade 
Min i~ium Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
1 
2 
3 
4 
$ 2,970 
$ 4,010 
$ 3,28C 
$ 4,440 
3,230 
4,360 
3,570 
4,830 
3,570 
4,820 
3,860 
5,220 
3,975 
5,370 
4,29
r 
5,810 
5 
6 
7 
8 
4.390 
5,925 
4,800 
6,480 
5,355 
7,230 
5,^05 
7,980 
4,780 
6,460 
5,250 
7,110 
5,740 
7,760 
6,360 
8,600 
9 
10 
11 
12 
6,480 
8,750 
7,160 
9,675 
7.860 
10,610 
8,625 
11,645 
7,000 
9,460 
7,570 
10,230 
8,250 
11,150 
8,920 
12,060 
13 
14 
15 
16 
9,580 
12,930 
9,740 
13,180 
10.655 
14,385 
10,610 
14,350 
11,965 
16,155 
11,710 
15,850 
11,385 
18,075 
12,920 
17,480 

Mr. Charles J. Scanlon 
-2-
3 2 B 8 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respective 
positions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the 
minimums of their grades as a result of the structure increase should 
be brought within appropriate ranges not later than six months after 
the effective date of the new structure. 
The Board also approved your request for a special Grade 
16 maximum of $22,000, where required to recruit and retain employees 
of the desired quality in professional level positions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

ofcovA'. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• r THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No 
8/17/67 
a d o r i i i 
o f f i c i a l 
c d r r i i 
T O T H E 
I O A N D 
August 17, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Charles J . Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear M r . Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary to 
M r . Carl C. Welke as an Assistant Cashier of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago at the rate of $13,500 per annum for the period 
October 1 through December 31, 1967. This is the rate fixed by 
your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of July 27. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
• 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3 2 ? n 
Item No. 6 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
8/17/67 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST VIRGINIA CORPORATION, 
Arlington, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Bank of Craigsville, Inc., Craigsville, 
Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has cone before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.4(a)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)(3)), an application by The First Virginia Corporation, 
Arlington, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Bank of Craigsville, 
Inc., Craigsville, Virginia. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
^ e Commissioner of Banking for the State of Virginia of the appli-
cation and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
advised that he had no objection to approval of the application. 

2-
3 2 * 7 1 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 16, 1967 (32 Federal Register 7305), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
b y the Federal Reserve Bank pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 17th day of August, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin, and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3272 
Item No. 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
8/17/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST VIRGINIA CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE BANK OF CRAIGSVILLE, INC. 
STATEMENT 
The First Virginia Corporation, Arlington, Virginia ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, ha9 applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( H U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The Bank of Craigsville, Inc., 
C raigaville, Virginia ("Bank"). Applicant presently controls 13 banks, 
*hich operate 76 offices with total deposits of $305 million,-^ 
Bank's 
8ingle office has $1.1 million in total deposits. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
ky section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Virginia Commissioner 
Banking of receipt of the application and requested his views and 
recoitmendation thereon. The Commissioner expressed no objection to 
QPproval of the application. 
y Banking data are of December 31, 1966, unless otherwise noted, and 
reflect acquisitions and mergers approved by appropriate supervisory 
a uthorities to date. 

Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would resillt in 
a monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other 
Proposed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
ate clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consider-
ation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction, - There are five 
kank holding companies operating in Virginia, all of which are among 
the State's nine largest banking organizations (those having $100 million 
°
r more in deposits). These nine organizations hold about 62 per cent 
o f the total deposits in the State, The five holding companies control 
6 Per cent of these deposits, of which 5.7 per cent is attributable to 
Applicant. Consummation of the proposed transaction would not change 
APplic ant's present position as the fourth largest holding company and 

sixth largest banking organization operating in Virginia. The $1.1 million 
in deposits held by Bank would increase Applicant's control of total 
deposits in the State by less than one-tenth of one per cent. 
Bank's single office is located in Craigsville, Augusta County, 
9 / 
Its primary service area- encompasses Craigsville and the adjoining 
sgricultural area along State Route 42 for about eight miles to the 
southwest and four miles to the northeast. The estimated population of 
C raigsville is 800, and that of Bank's primary service area about 4,200. 
Ihere are no other banks in Bank's service area. There are eight other 
banks, with a total of 16 offices, located in Augusta County. One of 
these eight is Staunton Industrial Bank, Staunton ($6 million of deposits), 
a subsidiary of Applicant, located about 25 miles east of Craigsville. 
Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's control of deposits in 
A ugU8ta County 
as of June 30, 1966, from 6 to 7.5 per cent. As of 
» 
same date, two non-holding company banks headquartered outside, 
hut operating offices within, Augusta County control combined deposits 
^presenting 54 per cent of the total deposits held by all banks in 
Augusta County. The National Valley Bank of Staunton holds approxi-
mately 22 per cent of such deposits. In the Board's judgment, consum-
mation of Applicant's proposal, viewed with respect to the State as a 
w h o l e > within Augusta County, and within Bank's primary service area, 
w°uld not significantly change the existing concentration of banking 
and deposits. Nor would Applicant's control of banking offices 
a nd deposits be of such size or character as to preclude approval of its 
Proposed acquisition of Bank. 
27—-
The 
area from which Applicant estimates that Bank derives 95 per cent of 
t s total deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC 
aePosits"). 

3275 
Considering the probable effect of Bank's acquisition by 
Applicant on existing and potential competition, the Board concludes 
that such considerations do not bar approval of the proposal. Applicant's 
subsidiary nearest to Bank, Staunton Industrial Bank ($6 million of deposits), 
offers negligible competition to Bank. Considering the distance separating 
these banks, their respective sizes, and the presence in Staunton of four 
banks larger 
than Applicant's bank, it is reasonably concluded that no 
significant potential competition between Bank and Staunton Industrial Bank 
would be foreclosed by this acquisition. 
The two largest banks in the State, each with deposits of approxi-
mately $535 million, operate two offices apiece in Staunton that derive 
business from Bank's service area. Applicant's operation of Bank will, 
In 
the Board's judgment, increase Bank's ability to compete more effectively 
w*th the larger Staunton banks for business that Bank presently is either 
enable 
to handle, or has chosen not to solicit. 
In summary, the Board concludes, on the basis of the record 
Presented, that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result 
a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant 
a rea of the State. The Board further concludes that Applicant's acqui-
8*tion of Bank would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a Monopoly, nor operate in restraint of trade in any relevant area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition and prospects,viewed in the light of the 

-5-
sound condition and prospects of its subsidiary banks,are considered 
satisfactory. Its management, and the management of its subsidiary 
banks, are considered capable and experienced. 
Bank's financial resources and condition are reasonably satis-
factory, However, there are some aspects of its operation which would be 
improved by affiliation with Applicant. Bank's management, while qualified 
ai*d competent, is highly conservative. In addition to its chief executive 
°fficer, age 65, Bank has but one other seasoned operating officer. Appli-
C ant is in a position to provide Bank with experienced personnel, some of 
^hom would be potential executive timber, all of whom could assist Bank 
"Ith respect to its external and internal operations. Considering the 
* 
little 
likelihood that Bank, continuing as an independent institution, 
could attract management and operating personnel of the character appar-
ently needed, Applicant's ability and stated intention to fill this need 
lend weight to approval of its application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Bank's 
service area is primarily agricultural in nature, although the immediate 
C r aigsville area is largely dependent on four rather small industrial 
derations 
offering limited employment potential. In general, while the 
e conomy of the Bank's service area as a whole seems reasonably favorable, 
t l l at of the town of Craigsville appears static. While the banking needs of 
area involved appear to be served, such service is, in large measure, 
Provided by banks outside the area. Applicant's proposal offers a potential 
expanded local service and for provision of resources, capital, and 

-6-
experienced management that could constitute a catalyst for economic 
«JM» / i 
development in the Craigsville area. These considerations weigh toward 
Wii: Vi .• 
approval of this application* 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
ic"' 
,, 
, 
-t 
; a August 17, 1967. 

3278 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 8 
• F T H E 
8/17/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1967 
Louis J. Dibrell, Esq. , 
Dibrell Dibrell and Greer, 
American National Building, 
Galveston, Texas. 
77550 
Re: The Moody Foundation 
D e a r Mr. Dibrell: 
This is in reference to previous correspondence and meetings 
with respect to the applicability of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956 to The Moody Foundation, and to the Foundation's proposal for the 
transfer of its one-half interest in W . L. Moody & Co., a private (i.e., 
unincorporated) bank, to Moody National Bank of Galveston, Texas, as 
trustee of the Libbie Shearn Moody Trust. It is our understanding 
that the Foundation currently receives approximately 41 per cent of 
the trust's income and has a 75 per cent remainder interest. 
AIR MAIL 
After further study of the facts and questions presented 
ai*d the arguments that have been advanced to the Board and its staff, 
both orally and in writing, and after further consideration of the 
language, structure, and legislative history of the Act and its purposes, 
fche Board has concluded that a private bank is a bank within the defini-
tion of that term in section 2(c) of the Act; and that ownership of a 
^e-half interest in such a bank constitutes ownership of "25 per centum 
c more of the voting shares" of such bank within the meaning of section 
-(a)(1). Accordingly, the Board affirms its earlier determination that 
The Moody Foundation is a bank holding company on the basis of owner-
ship of (1) 49.6 per cent of the voting shares of Moody National Bank 
a n d (2) an undivided one-half partnership share in W . L. Moody & Co.; 
and that the Foundation is subject to the requirements and restrictions 
o f the Act. 
The Board has also concluded that the proposed transfer by 
fche Foundation of its 50 per cent interest in W . L. Moody & Co. to the 
a£orementioned trustee would result in the transferee (Moody National) 

3279 
touis J. Dibrell, Esq. 
- 2 -
' ,*' "V ' 
-
tn, 
V 
*' i ' A 
-< 
having a. beneficiary (the Foundation) "in common with or subject 
to control by the transferor" (the Foundation) within the meaning 
°f section 2(g)(3) of the Act. Accordingly, control over the trans-
ferred interest would be deemed to be held by the Foundation, and 
the transfer would not effect a termination of the Foundation's bank 
holding company status. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3 2 8 0 
OF Coy•. 
S^f/l/', 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
8/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C D H H E S P O N D E N C t 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 23, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Sir: 
In recent years, the Board of Governors has established 
general guidelines for use by the Board of Directors at the Federal 
Reserve Banks in requesting approval for proposed changes in officers' 
salaries. 
From the viewpoint of the Board, the guidelines have had a 
constructive effect on salary administration throughout the System 
and have materially assisted the Board in its responsibility for 
approving officer compensation. The Board believes that the guidelines 
have assisted the Banks by focusing their attention on the need to plan 
and schedule merit and promotional advances over a reasonable period 
of time. 
In the light of this experience, the Board has reestablished 
guidelines for salaries of officers other than the President and First 
Vice President for the year 1968 as follows: 
1. 
Annual Review. Except for increases incident to 
promotions, requests for approval of salary changes 
should be made at the time of the annual review; at 
other times, only under unanticipated circumstances. 
2. 
Basis of Increase and Rate of Progression. 
Increases 
should not be automatic; in frequency and amount 
they should reflect relative merit and competitive 
conditions. 

-2-
3281 
3. 
Selectivity. To maintain selectivity, and subject to 
exceptions below, the Board will not ordinarily approve 
increases for more than 40 per cent of the officer 
staff at each Reserve Bank in any given year. The 
merit basis for increases should not be avoided by 
automatic increases in larger amounts at two or three 
year intervals. 
4. 
Exceptions. 
a. Increases to officers whose salaries are below 
the minimum of Group D (Groups D and E at New York) 
are excluded from the 40 per cent limitation. 
In 
determining the 40 per cent, the officers in these 
grades who have been given below-minimum increases 
will not be included in either the numerator 
(number of officers' salaries increased) or the 
denominator (total number of officers). 
b. Promotional increases are excluded from the 40 per 
cent calculation. To be eligible, a promotion 
must include a concurrent change in the level of 
responsibilities and, ordinarily, in the title 
of the individual. 
c. Cost-of-living increases up to $1,000 for officers 
whose salaries are $15,000 or less, and up to 
$1,500 for officers whose salaries are in excess 
of $15,000, may be given without regard to the 40 
per cent limitation to all officers who have not 
received a merit or promotional increase in 1966 
or 1967--even though they may be retiring in 1968. 
Salaries of officers proposed for the year beginning 
January 1, 1968, should be submitted to the Board of Governors not 
later than November 15, 1967. The Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans (comprised of Governor Mitchell as 
Committee Chairman, and Governors Maisel and Brimmer) believes that, 
as in the past, it would be mutually helpful if the Committee could 
receive from each President a preliminary list of contemplated 
salaries before the Bank submits its proposals formally to the 
Board for action. 

-3-
3282 
In recent years most of the Presidents have at least 
informally discussed promotions contemplated as a result of 
retirements, known separations, or restructuring of operations. 
The Committee believes this policy is helpful to its consideration 
of merit raises and requests all Banks to include such information 
with their presentation this year. 
The Board has also asked the Committee to review and 
recommend a policy to be followed in the approval of revised 
salary structures for nonofficer staff. Numerous questions have 
been raised concerning the relationship of current procedures 
to the System's general battle against inflation, the wage-price 
guidelines, and price escalations in the service industries. 
Concern has also been felt with respect to a growing use of 
substantially across-the-board increases, plus increases resulting 
from changes in the structures, in contrast to previous years when 
across-the-board increases were not used. 
The Committee considers that the practice of relating 
changes in salary structures to community salary surveys is appro-
priate. It also believes, however, that proposed changes should 
consider the entire range of System responsibilities — including 
optimum personnel practices, the training of personnel for the 
banking and monetary system, and the impact on wages and prices. 
Each Bank must determine how the surveys should best be used in 
suggesting structure changes. Estimated allowances for structure 
changes since the survey date should be carefully documented, and 
in no case should such allowances be projected beyond the effective 
date of a proposed structure change. The Committee also believes 
that the present is not the time to move ahead of the labor market 
unless a separation analysis justifies such action. The Committee 
Would like to get the Presidents' reaction to this point of view. 
The community salary surveys for officer staff being 
conducted under the supervision of Eugene Leonard, referred to in 
the Board's letter of June 8, 1967, are expected to be available 
in September. On the basis of that survey, recommendations of 
the Reserve Banks, and such additional data as are available, the 
Committee expects to recommend to the Board appropriate ranges 
for 1968. It would be helpful to have such suggestions as your 
Bank considers appropriate in our hands not later than October 15. 

8 2 8 8 
-4-
The Committee would also like to be advised, at the time 
of the discussion of officer salaries, of plans your Bank may have 
for building projects of a major nature during the next five years. 
It will be appreciated if each President will schedule 
his meeting with the Committee for the purpose of discussing salaries, 
Promotions, and building projects prior to November 15, 19 67. 
This letter is being sent to the Chairman and the President 
of each Federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
|Kh'V , 
Of 
iv.: ... 
Merritt Sherma 
Secretary": 
•'JUf\ 1 
CuV 
i 
, . 
TO THE CHAIRMEN AND PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

m 
32m 
Item N o . 10 
T E L E G R A M 
8/17/67 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
A u g u s t 17, 1967. 
BREIDENBACH - CLEVELAND 
The Board's G e n e r a l C o u n s e l , acting on behalf of the 
fi°ard under delegated a u t h o r i t y , has approved payment by your 
Bank of fees to outside counsel for services in connection with 
Proceedings to obtain a reduction in the assessment of property 
°f your Bank for real estate tax p u r p o s e s , as described in your 
letter of A u g u s t 10, 1967, provided that the total amount of such 
fees paid shall not exceed $ 2 5 , 0 0 0 . 
If it should appear that such 
amount m i g h t be e x c e e d e d , the m a t t e r should be submitted for further 
approval. 
Please advise as to name of outside counsel and nature 
arrangements finally m a d e . 
(Signed) M e r r i t t Sherman 
SHERMAN 
