MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 6, 1972 

27 
dc.u 
J r.,c 
Ich 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 6, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
On behalf of the Board, Chairman Burns welcomed Governor Sheehan, 
who was attending his first meeting as a member of the Board. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, and Atlanta on December 30, 1971, 
and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Minneapolis on January 4, 
ofi.the,^es on advances 
iS^hed^ea: 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

28 
1/6/72 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the State of New York 
Banking Department, New York, New York, interposing no objection to the 
application of Pekao Trading Corporation, New York, New York, for a 
license to engage in the business of Transmitter of Money. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Morgan Guaranty Inter-
national Finance Corporation and Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
Corporation, both of New York, New York, granting consent to proceed 
with the consolidation of the business of the two corporations through 
specified actions. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to First National City 
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch in San Juan, Puerto Rico. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Interpretation of Regulation K. In a memorandum dated October 6, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented a question 
regarding the status of certain practices in the area of acceptance credit, 
under Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act. The question had recurred in recent exam-
inations of Edge corporations. 
Regulation K limits to 10 per cent of a corporation's capital and 
surplus the amount of unsecured acceptance credit a corporation may extend 
to any one person except where any excess represents the international 

2 9 
1/6/72 
-3-
shipment of goods and is fully covered by primary obligations to reim-
burse it that are also guaranteed bv banks or bankers. The question 
was whether a corporation could extend acceptance credit to a customer 
in excess of its legal limit where the excess was covered by a partici-
pation agreement with the corporation's parent bank or another bank. 
The New York Reserve Rank believed that the question should be answered 
in the negative. The Division of Supervision and Regulation found the 
Bank's arguments unpersuasive and recommended, for reasons set forth in 
the memorandum, that the Board conclude affirmatively and publish an 
interpretation to that effect. A draft was attached to the Division's 
memorandum. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the real issue was 
the extent to which a bank not located in New Y0rk City could compete 
against New York Cit^ banks for acceptance business, using the bank's 
capital as a base for the limitation on related credits rather than the 
smaller capital base of the bank's Edge corporation. In his opinion, 
Edge corporation were not intended for that purpose. The question 
therefore involved a matter of policy rather than law, and he believed 
!that the Board should decide it on that basis. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the policy question had existed 
for years, and arose from the advantage New York City banks had in inter-
national transactions. It appeared to him highly pro-competitive to allow 
banks outside New York to compete. 

30 
1/6/72 
-4-
After further discussion, the interpretation was approved unani-
mously. A copy of the interpretation as published in the Federal Register 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
Premiums. In a memorandum of December 27, 1971, the Division of 
Research and Statistics reported the findings of a study of premiums 
paid in bank mergers and holding company acquisitions. The principal 
conclusion was that determination of a "rational" price in any given 
case was complex, and that there was a large element of irrationality; 
therefore, premiums were unreliable indicators of the degree of monopoly 
power and overly-restrictive chartering. 
It wasrrecommended that as a matter of policy the Board use an 
excessive premium as cause for denial only when the transaction raised 
serious questions regarding the soundness and stability of the holding 
company. It was not recommended that the Board deny applications involving 
large premiums to reduce a presumed advantage of larger holding companies 
over small ones in bidding for banks, although the staff felt that the 
question warranted further investigation. The staff also did not recommend 
that acquisitions entailing large premiums be denied in order to slow the 
pace of consolidation of the banking system. 
It was noted that theoproblem of regulating activities of bank 
holding companies so as to assure "soundness1!; would become increasingly 
severe as time went by, and the staff indicated concern with the present 
course of developments in that area. 

3 1 
1/6/72 
-5-
Comments by members of the Board stressed the view that, while 
the study was stimulative, it did not provide a policy basis for adopting 
criteria for assessing the significance of premiums. Some reservations 
were expressed regarding the staff view of the extent to which the Board 
should be concerned with the relation of proposed premiums to soundness 
of the paying institution. Some members of the Board believed it was as 
necessary to be concerned with the financial condition and soundness of 
bank holding companies as it was for banks. 
After discussion of a number of aspects of the problem, it was 
understood that the staff would continue studies looking toward formulation 
of criteria for judging the significance of premiums, possibly in later 
consultation with an academician whose work in this field had been cited 
in the staff report. 
Firstbrook Corporation. In a memorandum dated December 28, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
application of Firstbrook Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire shares 
of Northbrook Trust & Savings Bank, Northbrook, Illinois. Financing ar-
rangements contemplated a sale of equity capital and a 10-year term loan 
from a nonaffiliated bank. Debt would represent 72 per cent of the pur-
chase price and 250 per cent of invested capital. 
Questions were raised regarding the proposed bank loan and the 
market prospects of Northbrook Trust & Savings Bank. Action was deferred 
pending exploration of these questions. 

32 
1/6/72 
-6-
Bank Securities, Inc. In a memorandum of December 14, 1971, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
application of Bank Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank of Portales, Portales, New Mexico. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had recommended approval. The Divi-
sion's adverse recommendation was based upon doubts regarding the equal-
v; 
. u: visa; :'ic!< 
' 
i 
ity of the stock offer being made to minority shareholders, with market 
value based upon very thin trading. The Division also considered the 
fees assessed by the applicant from its subsidiary banks for both ser-
vices and management an objectionable banking practice. 
1 
i 
Members of the Board raised questions whether the objections 
( , 
found by the staff were sufficient to warrant denial. It was understood 
k 
. r< • 
• i 
that the staff would develop additional information, to the extent pos-
j 
sible, for the Board's further consideration. Action was therefore 
deferred. 
——— 
United Missouri Bancshares. Pursuant to the understanding at 
the meeting on December 30, 1971, the Legal Division had submitted a 
redraft of a statement in support of the Board's denial on that date of 
the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri 
to acquire shares of Bank of Jacomo, Blue Springs, Missouri. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its decision 
and the statement as revised. Copies of the documents are attached under 
.Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
m 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
1/6/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 6, 1972 
Mr. James P. Gargan 
Assistant Deputy Superintendent 
State of New York Banking Department 
100 Church Street 
New York, New York 
10007 
Dear Mr. Gargan: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 3, 
1971, requesting the views of the Board of Governors re-
garding the application of Pekao Trading Corporation, New 
York, New York, for a license to engage in the business of 
Transmitter of Money. 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection 
to the approval of the application. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
34 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
1/6/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 6, 1972 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation 
2 3 Wall Street 
Mew York} New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of November 24, 1971, the Board of 
Governors grants consent to the following: 
(1) Amendment of Article SEVENTH of the Articles of Associa-
tion of Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation 
("MGIFC") increasing the capital from $11,000,000 to 
$23,000,000 through the issuance of an additional 120,000 
shares, par value $100; 
(2) Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation's 
("MGIBC") purchase and holding of the above mentioned 
120,000 shares of MGIFC in exchange for all of MGIBC's 
present equity holdings; 
(3) MGIFC's purchase and holding of the present equity holdings 
of MGIBC and assumption of MGIBC!s liabilities; and 
(4) MGIBC1s liquidation and the resultant passing of its 
holding of the stock of MGIFC to Morgan Guaranty Trust 
Company of New York. 
The foregoing consents are granted on the condition that MGIFC's 
Purchase and holding of the stocks presently held by MGIBC are subject to 
the same conditions applicable to MGIBC's purchase and holding thereof, and 
the further condition that MGIFC place on its books each of the stocks 
received from MGIBC at the same amount as they are carried by MGIBC. 
Upon completion of the respective changes, it is requested that 
the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, be 

35 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
furnished with a certified copy of Article SEVENTH as amended, and advised 
o f the liquidation of MGIBC. 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding that the 
Position of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and its affiliates 
under the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines will not be altered., 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
36 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
1/6/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T U T H E 
B U A R D 
January 6, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission for First National City Overseas Investment Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in San Juan, Puerto 
Rico, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation K. The Board understands that the 
branch is not to be used to conduct a banking business. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before February 1, 1973, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business. T 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in San Juan. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

S-2184-
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 4 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/6/72 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
.PART 211—CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN 
FOREIGN BANKING AND FINANCING UNDER 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
Acceptances 
° 
.•'.•.•'• 
' 
§ 211,107 Participations by banks in acceptance credits extended 
by Edge corporations 
(a) A question has been raised with the Board as to whether 
a corporation organized under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(an "Edge corporation") may extend acceptance credits to any one per-
Ron in excess of 10 per cent of its capital and surplus where the 
excess represents the international shipment of goods and is covered 
by a participation agreement with the Edge corporation's parent bank, 
or another bank, providing for unconditional reimbursement if an 
acceptance credit is not repaid for any reason, 
(b) Section 21109.(a) of this Parts (Regulation K) pro-
vides that an Edge corporation shall be fully secured as to all 
acceptances for any one person in excess of 10 per cent of its 
capital and surplus "except to the extent any such excess represents 
the international shipment of goods and is fully covered by primary 
obligations to reimburse it which are also guaranteed by banks or 
bankers." 
The exception permits an Edge corporation to extend to 
any purchaser of exports or imports unsecured acceptance credits in 

excess of the stated limits to the extent that it holds an acceptance 
agreement or similar agreement of such purchaser, accompanied by a 
guaranty of a bank, unconditionally obligating the purchaser and the 
bank to reimburse the Edge corporation for acceptance credits extended 
by it. 
(c) The Board has concluded that a participation agreement, 
while not technically a guaranty, provides assurance of repayment 
equivalent to a guaranty and that it would be consistent with the 
foregoing exception for an Edge corporation to extend unsecured 
acceptance credits to any such person in excess of the stated limits 
in reliance upon a participation agreement unconditionally obligating 
a bank to reimburse the Edge corporation for acceptance credits 
extended by it. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 615.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 6, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

Item No. 3 
1/6/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri 
(formerly Missouri Bancshares, Inc.), has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Bank of Jacomo, Blue Springs, Missouri 
("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. 
The Board has considered the application and 
a l 1 comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
t h* Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
January 6, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary Of the Board 
tSEAL] 
1/ votir 
for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell 
Gov 
i/la:Lsel> and Brimmer. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
a^no-;- Sheehan did not participate in the Hoard's action in this matter 

STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY 
UNITED MISSOURI BANCSHARES, INC., KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
BANK OF JACOKO, BLUE SPRINGS, MISSOURI 
United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of 
Jacorao, Blue Springs, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Statutory considerations, - Applicant, the fourth largest 
banking organization in Missouri, controls 8 banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $493.8 million, representing 4.3 per cent 
o f total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board through October 31, 1971.) As 
a result of consummation of the proposal herein, Applicant's share 
o f commercial bank deposits in the State would be increased an insig-
^ i c a n t amount, and its position in relation to the State's other 
banking organizations would remain unchanged. 
Bank ($3 million deposits), which received charter approval 
March 1970 and opened for business on May 26, 1970, is located in 
suburban Kansas City, approximately twenty miles east of Applicant's 
largest subsidiary bank ($380.6 million deposits) in downtown Kansas 
C lty. While both Bank and Applicant's lead bank operate in the Kansas 

41 
-2-
City market and consummation of the proposal herein would tend to 
foreclose the development of competition between the two, consummation 
would not have such a serious adverse effect on competition as to 
Squire denial of the application. 
In exercising its assigned statutory responsibility of 
reviewing the acquisition of a bank by a holding company, the Board 
considers not only the direct competitive effects of the acquisition 
b ut also all the other relevant circumstances to determine whether, 
balance, the acquisition would be in the public interest. 
In 
considering all the relevant circumstances of this proposal, the 
Board finds that the public interest requires denial of the application. 
In connection with its review of the application, the Board 
h as considered a comment filed by the Missouri Commissioner of Finance 
indicating that he views with concern the practice whereby a bank is 
bartered de novo with the intention of realizing a profit through 
fche early sale of the bank to a holding company. 
The Commissioner 
stated that it was not " . . . for the good of the banking community 
fco have banks chartered and sold immediately for a profit. 
It is 
further the attitude of this office that anyone who files a de novo 
aPPlication with the intent of negotiation with any holding company, 
the application will be denied." 
In considering the public interest, the Board gives weight 
t o a chartering authority being able to consider all of the relevant 

42 
-3-
WM-
facts surrounding a proposal to establish a new bank including the 
Probability that the ownership and management of a new bank will 
ren>ain stable for a reasonable period of time. 
Another area of concern to the Board in connection with 
t his case is reflected in the prospect for a depressed earning rate 
° n this investment as a result of the price being offered to the stock-
holders of Bank. 
The purchase price is equal to almost 200 per cent 
o f Bank's book value and the premium is equal to about 22 per cent of 
Bank's deposits. 
The retarding effect on the earnings of the holding 
C0T&pany if Applicant were to continue to dilute its earning capacity 
offering premiums in future acquisitions such as appear in this 
° a s e c o u l d be serious. 
The Board has previously expressed its concern 
about excessive premiums. 
(1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 838-839). 
The present financial condition of Applicant and subsidiary 
bat*ks is generally satisfactory, their management is capable, and 
°spects of the group appear favorable. As was noted earlier, Bank 
i8 
a newly chartered organization, and its financial condition, 
^ a g e m e n t , and prospects are regarded as satisfactory whether as 
a n affiliate of Applicant or as an independent. 
However, considerations 
bating to the financial factors are not such as to require approval 
0 f the application. 
The major banking needs of the residents of the Blue Springs 
* appear to be adequately served at the present time by the existing 
nstitutions, and Applicant proposes no new services, except for 

43 
/ 
-4-
trust services, which are not available from the other six banks in 
Bank's service area. 
Moreover, consummation of the proposal would 
remove an alternative source of banking services for those residents 
o f Blue Springs who commute to Kansas City. Consequently, considerations 
relating to convenience and needs provide no substantial support for 
aPProval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
^ the record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
w°uld not be in the public interest, and that the application should 
b e denied. 
January 
6, 1972. 
