MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 9, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Divison of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan and Miss Ormsby of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Staff presented a money market review in the usual weekly 
format. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
During discussion based on the review, Governor Brimmer 
requested that the staff make inquiries to determine the names of 
foreign central banks that were making deposits in the head offices 
of U.S. banks. Governor Brimmer also requested that the staff check 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

7 4 
1/9/70 
-4-
on reports that had come to him from Seattle that parties were obtaining, 
through some device, the Federal funds rate on what were essentially 
demand deposits. 
Foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer called attention 
to an announcement that was being made which would confirm that it had 
been the intent, in revising the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint 
guidelines applicable to nonbank financial institutions, to include 
Japan in the developed country category for purposes of the guidelines. 
This apparently had gone unnoticed in Japan until the past few days, 
and many inquiries were being received by the Federal Reserve Banks, 
especially New York. 
During discussion of this matter, Governor Maisel requested 
that a study be made of the question of dual coverage under the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Program and the Interest Equalization Tax. 
Staff members who had attended particularly for the money 
market review then left the room and the following entered: 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and Assistant 
Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta and Minneapolis on January 6 and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 

1/9/70 
-3-
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on January 8, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Bank of America. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
California, granting its application for permission for Bank of 
America S.A., Luxembourg, to acquire the shares of a proposed Luxembourg 
holding company. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
United Virginia. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
United Virginia Bank International, Norfolk, Virginia, regarding the 
proposed establishment by that corporation of an office in Richmond. 
A copy is attached as Item No• 2. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Officer at Chicago. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago approving the payment of salary to 
Karl A. Scheld as Vice President and Director of Research at the annual 
rate of $28,000 during the period April 1 through December 31, 1970. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
During discussion of this matter, reference was made to the 
understandings of Board members concerning the lines of authority that 
were contemplated by the Chicago Bank with respect to the conduct of 

76 
1/9/70 
-4-
research activities and to efforts reportedly being made by the Bank to 
attract an officer who would serve essentially as a top-level adviser 
on economic, monetary, and banking matters. 
NAMSB. The Secretary noted that an invitation was being 
extended to the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks to have 
its representatives meet with available members of the Board on 
March 3, 1970, for the type of discussion that had been held annually 
in recent years. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
1/9/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 1970 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
One Bank of America Plaza, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen; 
As requested in your letter of September 17, 1969, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your bank ("B of A NT&SA") to 
continue to hold the shares of Bank of America S.A. ("B of A/Lux"), 
Luxembourg, after B of A/Lux acquires all of i:he initial outstanding 
shares of a holding company to be formed in Luxembourg ("Fund"), at 
a cost of approximately $100,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this latter. 
The Board of Governors also grants consent for B of A NT&SA 
to continue to hold the shares of B of A/Lux after the increase in 
authorized capital of the Fund arising from the proposed public issue 
of approximately 1,000,000 additional shares and the underwriting 
operations of B of A/Lux as a member of the underwriting group, pro-
vided, that any Fund shares acquired by B of h/LUX through such 
underwriting operations do not constitute majority control of the 
outstanding shares of the Fund. 
It is understood that branches of your bank located out-
side the United States and its territories and possessions may 
advise customers, other than United States citizens or residents, 
of the availability of Fund shares but will in no event engage or 
participate, directly or indirectly, in the business of underwriting, 
selling, or distributing such shares. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

7 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
1/9/70 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
C J F F I C I A L 
C C I R H E S P C U 
D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 1970 
Mr. Willem J. van Bakel, 
Executive Vice President, 
United Virginia Bank International, 
Norfolk, Virginia. 23514 
Dear Mr. van Bakel: 
This refers to your letter oE December 16, 1969 regarding 
the proposed establishment by your Corporation of an office in 
Richmond. As described in your letter, the functions to be per-
formed at the Richmond office would appear to be typical of those 
normally undertaken by a representative office. Accordingly, so 
long as the Richmond office exercises none of the banking powers 
specified in section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, it would not 
constitute an "agency" requiring Board approval under § 211.6(a) 
of Regulation L. 
Please advise the Board of any significant change in the 
scope or nature of the Richmond office's activities. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3 
BOARD • F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
1/9/70 
A D D R U B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment 
of salary to Mr. Karl A. Scheld as Vice President and 
Director of Research at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago at the rate of $28,000 per annum for the period 
April 1 through December 31, 1970. This is the rate 
fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in your 
letter of November 13, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deput/ Secretary. 
