MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 22, 1970 

1592 
> f 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, May 22, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel JJ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Mrs. Byrn of 
the Office of the Secretary 
The usual weekly review of economic and financial developments 
presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
Individual briefings. 
At the completion of the review, members of the staff who had 
attended for that purpose left the room and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
f" j'1 i ij 
. ,?d:s ,lt;r it 
r.: 
J-
i/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
—' Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1533 
5/22/70 
-2-
• Jf 
f 
< 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Irvine, Advis er, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
FOMC policy record entry. With a memorandum of May 19, 1970, 
Mr. Holland had submitted for the Board's consideration a draft of 
Policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee held on March 10, 1970. The draft reflected comments received 
from Committee members and staff following distribution of a preliminary 
draft. 
The current economic policy directive issued by the Committee 
a t the March 10 meeting had indicated that the Committee desired to see 
moderate growth in money and bank credit over the months ahead and 
stated that open market operations until the next meeting should be 
conducted with a view to maintaining money market conditions consistent 
w i th that objective. 

1594 
5/22/70 
-3-
Mr. Holland now stated that the staff would suggest the 
inclusion of an additional sentence in the policy record to reflect 
the concern expressed by several members of the Committee around the 
table that operations designed to implement the objective of moderate 
growth in money and bank credit be conducted cautiously and gradually 
out of regard for money market conditions. 
There followed discussion during which several suggestions were 
made regarding modification of the proposed additional language and its 
Placement within the structure of the policy record entry in such a way 
as to reflect accurately the sense of the discussion that had occurred 
at the meeting. An agreement in those respects was reached, and it was 
understood that the policy record entry, so revised, and approved in 
that form for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1970, would be 
distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents with an indication of the 
date by which any further comments should be received. It was contem-
plated that the entry would be released to the press about June 8, 1970. 
Miami facility. In the light of a comprehensive study that had 
heen made, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta had requested that the 
Board authorize the Bank to retain its Jacksonville Branch; open an 
additional branch in Miami, Florida, to serve the banks of southern 
Florida; until that could be accomplished, install in Miami check collec-
tion and currency and coin service facilities to serve the area; and 
establish a currency and coin facility in the Tampa area to serve the 
needs of banks in central Florida. 

5/22/70 
-4-
In a memorandum dated April 22, 1970, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the Board agree in principle 
to the establishment of a cash and check facility in the Miami area 
and that decisions on a full branch in that area and the proposed 
facility in the Tampa area be deferred pending the development of 
further information. 
In a memorandum dated May 18, 1970, the Committee on Organiza-
tion, Compensation, and Building Plans recommended that the Board agree 
in principle to the opening of an additional branch in Miami, with 
installat ion of check collection and currency and coin facilities to 
serve the area for the interim period. The Committee did not feel that 
the need for a facility in the Tampa area was sufficiently clear to 
warrant approval of that request at this time. 
Chairman Burns noted that the documentation did not discuss 
Political factors that might be involved, and Governor Mitchell replied 
that that question had been considered by the Reserve Bank in the course 
its investigation. 
After some further discussion along those lines, it was suggested 
that the matter be held over for consideration at a time when all Board 
members could be present, and there was agreement with that suggestion. 
Governor Maisel withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Multi-bank Edge corporations. The First National Bank of 
Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, had asked for an informal opinion 

1537 
5/22/70 
-5-
on its plan to participate in American International Bank, a multi-bank 
New York Edge corporation, and subsequently to establish a wholly-owned 
New York Edge corporation. The situation was complicated by the fact 
that the bank was a lead bank in a holding company system and that the 
other lead bank in that system (First National Bank of St. Paul) was 
already a shareholder in Allied Bank International, the only other 
roulti-bank Edge corporation in New York. 
In a memorandum dated May 19, 1970, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended advising the Minneapolis bank that its 
participation in American International Bank would be inappropriate, 
but that the Board would be disposed to regard favorably its establish-
.. 'V-V.u a 'it .•<! 
• •„ 
• • „.<-• i , 
• . — 
. • 
• ; . , 
went of an Edge corporation in New York. 
After discussion, a letter to First National Bank of Minneapolis 
reflecting the staff recommendation was approved. A copy of the letter 
i s attached as Item No. 1. 
Governor Brimmer dissented because he felt that things were not 
w°rking out in precisely the way that the Board had intended when it 
endorsed the idea of multi-bank participation in Edge corporations. 
Accordingly, he felt that this was a time for the Board to pause and 
reappraise the situation in the light of developments and what its 
actions might portend for the future. He agreed with most parts of 
the staff recommendation in the present case, but the fact that the 
St- Paul bank would be allowed to retain its participation in a multi-
bank Edge corporation caused him some concern. 

1537 
5/22/70 
-6-
While Governor Robertson expressed his willingness to support 
the staff recommendation in this instance, he indicated that he shared 
some of the concern about the situation generally that had been expressed 
by Governor Brimmer. 
Edge corporations at multiple locations. There was a preliminary 
discussion of questions raised in a memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division dated May 12, 1970, 
with regard to the proposed establishment of Edge corporations at 
multiple locations in the United States by banks already having Edge 
corporations. While several members of the Board accepted the view of 
the staff that a policy rather than a legal question was involved and 
indicated that they would be inclined to resolve the policy question 
favorably to applicants under usual circumstances, Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer were inclined to feel that the thrust of the legislative 
history, which related principally to the establishment of branches by 
Edge corporations, was such as to argue for restrictiveness in the 
consideration of applications to establish additional Edge corporations 
i-n the U.S. Additionally, Governor Brimmer felt that there were policy 
considerations from the point of view of banking competition and other-
Wise that should be studied carefully. 
The Chairman then suggested that, since a rather major issue of 
Principle appeared to be involved, it would seem advisable to defer 
further consideration of the matter until all members of the Board could 
present, and there was agreement with that suggestion. 

1598 
5/22/70 
-7-
Central Banking System. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting its action on May 13, 1970, approving the applica-
tion of Central Banking System, Inc., Oakland, California, to acquire 
shares of Bank of Fairfield, Fairfield, California, a proposed new 
bank, and in that connection approved a letter to applicant notifying 
it of the Board's action and expressing the Board's concern about the 
financial condition of applicant's lead bank. Copies of the order and 
letter are attached under Item No. 2. 
Marine Corporation. After one change had been agreed upon, the 
Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement reflecting its 
action on May 13, 1970, denying the application of The Marine Corpora-
tion, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Bank of Kewaskum, 
Kewaskum, Wisconsin. Copies of the order and statement are attached 
under Item No. 3. 
Long Island Trust Company. After discussion, the Board by 
unanimous vote granted the request of Long Island Trust Company, Garden 
City, N e w York, for reconsideration of the Board's denial in January 
1970 of its application to merge Bank of Westbury Trust Company, 
^estbury, New York. 
Pending study by the staff of means of developing additional 
information that would be useful in determining the relevant market 
area and its characteristics, including the banking connections of 
Parties doing business in the area, the Board deferred a decision on 

1599 
5/22/70 
-8-
whether to order an oral presentation or other form of hearing in 
connection with reconsideration of the application. 
A copy of the letter granting the request for reconsideration 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
S. 3678. The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Banking and 
Currency had requested a report from the Board on S. 3678, a bill designed 
to deter the improper use of secret foreign bank accounts, tax evasion, 
and other illegal activities through new requirements, to be administered 
by the Secretary of the Treasury, for improved recordkeeping and report-
l n8 by banks and other financial institutions. The bill would also 
strengthen the Federal securities law to reduce evasion thereof through 
the use of foreign financial agencies. 
In view of questions that had been raised since a draft of 
Proposed reply to Chairman Sparkman was distributed, it was agreed 
that a revised draft would be prepared for the Board's consideration 
and that the staff would consult with Governors Daane and Brimmer in 
Preparing the revised draft. 
Advances to member banks. Pursuant to the recommendation 
c°ntained in a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
operations dated May 11, 1970, the Board approved unanimously a letter 
t o the Federal Reserve Banks authorizing them, in connection with 
advances to member banks, to permit the use of custody receipts on any 
c°llateral held by correspondent banks, under arrangements satisfactory 
t o the Reserve Banks. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 

1600 
5/22/70 
-9-
Gold loan. Pursuant to the recommendation contained in a 
r f. 
memorandum from Mr. Robert Solomon dated May 21, 1970, the Board 
approved a renewal for three months of the $40 million gold collateral 
air;;.;,. ;.• 
.. ..; . ; - 
. < 
: 
• ' • ' 
loan extended to the Central Bank of the Philippines on February 24, 
1970. A copy of the telegram advising the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York of the Board's action is attached as Item No. 6. 
Health insurance. On March 9, 1970, the Conference of Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks considered several proposed changes in the 
statement of guidelines and objectives for health insurance that had 
been approved by the Board effective January 1, 1970. The Conference 
recommended that all Reserve Banks and branches be authorized (1) to 
'.:/v>a tiivr Mj.-'f ur 
: uf (.• 
.. lw. i : ;> : . •• 
: • 
pay the full 
individual health insurance premium on behalf of each 
covered employee and eligible retiree, and (2) to pay two-thirds of the 
additional premium applying to family coverage. It was also the opinion 
"'•'"*< if i' Ur.! C iMj . , ; V ' M\.l ' ' 
'i.i ': ' , 
°f the Conference that the Banks should move in concert toward full 
absorption of health insurance premiums for family coverage. However, 
the Board did not accept that view, the Conference would be willing 
t o accept authorization for Reserve Banks and branches in communities 
vhere prevailing practices favored more than two-thirds payment by the 
employer for family coverage to absorb up to the full amount of the 
premiums for such coverage. 
In a memorandum dated April 27, 1970, the Division of Personnel 
A i 
. 
mmistration recommended approval of the first two proposals but 

1601 
5/22/yr 
5/22/70 
-10-
'i-u*. ' 
• 
- . . • . 
. cm 
recommended against approval of full absorption of premiums for family 
'Carpor.; ::•.;/» 
, - , ••• 
. . , 
. . : 
coverage on either an individual office or all-Bank basis. The Com-
mittee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans concurred. 
Sat- Dr.:;. :..... 
•"•. . 
••.-. 
•• 
The Division recommendation was accepted, and the Board approved 
Ai'man-u. 
•....:• 
• 
... 
.« .; .. 
.... v\ 
; 
, • . 
unanimously a letter to the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents 
in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Involuntary separation. In a memorandum dated May 5, 1970, the 
•/lull'. 
Division of Personnel Administration discussed a plan proposed by the 
Conference of Presidents on March 9, 1970, under which the Federal 
yma,] V. :. • ; .. 
Reserve Banks would be authorized to pay certain separation allowances 
to employees upon involuntary termination of their employment in certain 
• . 
. • 
„ 
, 
.. . ,, .. ; 
circumstances. The Division analysis and recommendation, as contained 
r u 
. . 
... .. 
r . 
; ,... ... .... 
, , . .. ,. , .. 
. .. .. 
in the memorandum, was concurred in by the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans. 
V.t 
- • 
...... 
Pursuant to the Division recommendation, the Board approved 
unanimously a letter to the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents 
.;> ,,. j. . :... 
in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
-Uu i . „ 
< . . . 
t 
. , 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew from 
C" ." • ••• ) 
the meeting. 
yO 
( • 
Holding company matter. At the Chairman's request, Governor 
y^U'/.; ,. 
trimmer reported on a conversation he had had with Senators Sparkman 
and Bennett on the preceding day concerning the question of an uninsured 
hank serving as lead bank in a registered bank holding company. The 

leoz 
5/22/70 
-11-
i •> > ' : 
question had been raised by the application of Mercantile Bankshares 
Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to become a registered bank holding 
company by acquiring shares of the successor by merger to Mercantile-
Safe Deposit and Trust Company, Baltimore, as well as a bank in 
Annapolis. Both Senators had told Governor Brimmer that they did not 
conceive the intent of the holding company statute to extend to the 
strengthening of uninsured banking. They had stated that if the Board 
Wished to send up a proposed amendment to the law that would rule out 
the acquisition of uninsured banks by bank holding companies, they 
Would be glad to support the passage of such legislation. 
Accordingly, the Board directed that the staff prepare such a 
leg 
islative proposal that could be forwarded to the Congress. At the 
same time, the Board members also agreed to withhold release of the 
Board's decision on the Mercantile case pending clarification of the 
views of the Congress on the legislative amendment to be proposed. 
Chicago Bank. Governor Mitchell reported on a discussion with 
Chairman Higdon of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago concerning pos-
sible 
candidates to succeed Mr. Scanlon as President of the Bank. In 
response to the earlier Board request conveyed by Governor Mitchell, 
Chairman Higdon reported that the Chicago directors had agreed upon 21 
individuals inside and outside the Federal Reserve System whom they 
regarded as acceptable choices for the presidency. Because of the 
delicacy of the matter, however, Mr. Higdon preferred to convey those 

1603 
5/22/70 
-12-
names only orally. Governor Mitchell recited all of the names, pointing 
out that there had been no exploration of the availability of any of 
these men and that a number were recognized by the Chicago directors 
as probably unavailable. 
C - . • • 
• 
After discussion, it was agreed that the Board would proceed by 
}:i0 
: • 
.
.
.
. 
indicating which perions on the Chicago directors' list it would be 
Prepared to approve without question at this time, taking no account 
°f whether or not they might in fact be available for the post. On 
that basis, the Board members chose nine names from the Chicago directors' 
list, and Governor Mitchell was authorized to convey this information to 
Chairman Higdon. 
(Note: A memorandum listing the names has been 
Placed in the confidential files of the Office of the Secretary.) 
i 
- 
• 
i i X' i; 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Ul i: ! 
i-ict iv 
• . ' 
Secretary 

1604 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
_ 5/22/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 22, 1970. 
Mr. George H. Dixon, President, 
First National Bank of Minneapolis, 
!20 South Sixth Street, 
p
: 0. Box 512, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55402 
Dear Mr. Dixon: 
Reference is made to your letter of March 26, 1970, to 
president Galusha of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, which 
h a s been transmitted to the Board, in which you outline certain 
Plans about investments in Edge Corporations. According to your 
etter, you would plan (a) to acquire approximately 10 per cent of 
shares of American International Bank, a Corporation presently 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and oper-
ating in New York City, and (b) subsequently to acquire all the 
shares of an Edge Corporation to be formed by your bank to engage 
international banking operations in New York City. Your letter 
stated that any Corporation subsequently formed by you would di-
rectly compete in New York City with American International Bank, 
our letter requests an opinion whether such an investment in 
^erican International Bank would be consistent with your subsequent 
establishment of an Edge Corporation subsidiary in New York. 
t} 
The Board has been, and continues to be, of the opinion 
tot shareholding in multibank New York Edge Corporations by banks 
ich were likely to organize their own Edge Corporation in New 
o r k would tend to have adverse competitive effects. One of these 
verse effects would be the limitation, if not preclusion, of other 
n*s without the capability of independently entering the New York 
ernational market from gaining access to that market through 
rticipation in a multibank Edge Corporation. Furthermore, partic-
Pation by your bank in American International Bank would give your 
ent, First Bank Systems, a monopoly of the regional participa-
^ons in the only two existing multibank New York Edge Corporations, 
p nee another of its subsidiary banks, First National Bank of Saint 
a u l , already is a shareholder in Allied Bank International. 

1605 
Mr. George II. Dixon 
-2-
Accordingly, in the Board's opinion, it would not be 
appropriate for your bank to acquire shares of American International 
Bank, if First National Bank of Saint Paul were at the time holding 
shares of Allied Bank International. Although First National Bank 
Saint Paul is a participant in Allied Bank International, the 
Board, recognising the prior existence of that affiliation, would 
favorably disposed toward your bank's organization of an ade-
quately staffed, wholly-owned New York Edge Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
CENTRAL BANKING SYSTEM, INC., 
1 
Oakland, California, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at 
1 
least 51 per cent of the voting shares 
1 
of Bank of Fairfield, Fairfield, 
' 
California, a proposed new bank. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Central Banking System, Inc., 
Oakland, California ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 51 per 
cent of the voting shares of Bank of Fairfield, Fairfield, California 
("Bank" ), a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
1606 
Item No. 2 
5/22/70 
RESERVE SYSTEM 

1607 
- 2 -
of Banks for the State of California and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Superintendent recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 6, 1969 (34 Federal Register 19393), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with deposits of $262 million--
!ess than 1 per cent of total bank deposits in the State of California. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Applicant's initial entry into Solano County by acquisition of a new 
bank would have no significant effect on concentration of banking 
resources. 

Applicant's closest subsidiary is located 30 miles from 
Fairfield, county seat of Solano County. Bank's competitors would 
be four branches of the three large State-wide banks, and one unit 
bank with deposits of $10 million. Applicant's proposal could 
stimulate additional competition, and would neither eliminate existing 
competition, foreclose potential competition, nor have adverse effects 
on the viability or competitive effectiveness of any competing bank. 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that increased 
competition would likely result from consummation of the proposed 
acquisition. In the past, the Board has expressed concern over the 
managerial policy and capital position of Applicant's largest 
subsidiary bank. While the basis for that concern has not been 
entirely eliminated, there have been improvements which, in the 
Board's judgment, are sufficient to support approval of Applicant's 
acquisition of a newly organized bank. Therefore, the banking 
factors, as applied to the facts of record, are generally consistent 
with approval of the application. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend additional 
Weight in support of the approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPplication should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 

1 6 0 1 ) 
. 
. - . 
- 4 -
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order;- and that the Bank of Fairfield be opened for business not later 
than six months after the date of this Order. The latter time 
Periods may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 22, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Unanimously with all present. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

-V-v • vUU C 
1610 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
D F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 22, 1970. 
A I Q A I L - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT' REQUESTED 
i 
Central Banking System, Inc., 
301 - 20th Street, 
Oakland, California. 
•"> •.. j"*1 \ j 
.... 
• . • 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Central Banking System, Inc., for 
Permission to acquire at least 51 per cent of the voting shares 
Bank of Fairfield, Fairfield, California, a proposed new bank. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order, and the press release 
this action. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the periods of time within which the acquisition 
approved shall be consummated, and the Bank of Fairfield opened 
f°r business, advice of the fact of acquisition and of opening 
the bank for business should be given in writing to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
In connection with its action on previous applications, 
the Board expressed its concern with management policies reflected 
n the capital-asset condition of Central Valley National Bank, 
your largest subsidiary. On January 6, 1970, at the request of 
the Board, the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco informed you 
that the Board intended "to attribute significant weight to the 
Capital condition of Central. Valley National Bank in considering 
ariy further bank acquisitions proposed by Central Banking System, Inc." 

Central Banking System, Inc. 
- 2 -
1«11 
The Board has been informed of your decisions (1) not 
to increase dividends paid by subsidiary banks, thereby retaining 
in Central Valley National Bank substantial portions of its 
earnings, and (2) to reduce that bank's borrowings. 
These steps 
appear to have resulted in some improvement in the bank's 
capital position. As noted in the Board's Order, the trend 
towards improvement appears to be sufficient to justify your 
acquisition of a newly organized bank. 
The Board's action should not be read as implying 
satisfaction with the capital-asset relationship of Central 
Valley. 
The maintenance of an aggregate sound capital base, 
:and the evidence of excessive burdens on that base, are necessary 
for the future successful expansion of your organization. 
Accordingly, the Board assumes,and will expect, that management 
will continue to take whatever steps are necessary to assure 
further improvement. 
The effectiveness of management efforts in 
this direction will be the subject of critical analysis by the 
Board with respect to any additional bank acquisitions proposed. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 

M
1
2 
Item No. 3 
5/22/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
Bank of Kewaskum, Kewaskum, Wisconsin 
1 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR ACQUISITION 
OF BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of The Marine Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Kewaskum, 
Kewaskum, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
°f Banking of the State of Wisconsin, and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner offered no objection to approval 
o f the application. 

1613 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 26, 1970 (35 Federal Register 5137), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
V. 
' ' 
ail those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 22, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1614 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF BANK OF KEWASKUM, KEWASKUM, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"). 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Kewaskurn, 
Kewaskum, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
o f receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of 
^he state of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. 
Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any p a r t Qf 
united States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

1615 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
°ly> or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the prob-
able effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, each of which is a 
registered or approved bank holding company, control close to 39 per 
cent of the total deposits in the State.. Applicant, the second largest 
hanking organization in Wisconsin on the basis of deposits, controls 
u 
1/ 
banks with aggregate total deposits of $549 million. 
Bank 
bas total deposits of $10,6 million. Acquisition of Bank would raise 
Applicant's control from 6.6 to 6.7 per cent of total bank deposits 
i n the State. Such increase in banking concentration at the State 
level is not regarded by itself as significant. 
•i' Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 30, 1969, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and reflect holding company 
acquisitions for which Board approvals have been issued to date. 

1616 
-3-
Bank's single office is the only bank in the incorporated 
village of Kewaskum, which is in Washington County, Wisconsin, 
approximately 43 miles northwest of downtown Milwaukee. Applicant 
has two subsidiary banks in Washington County, namely, The Germantown 
Marine Bank located 24 miles southeast of Kewaskum, and the West Bend 
Marine Bank located 7-1/2 miles to the south and slightly east of 
Bank. These two subsidiary banks have aggregate total deposits of 
close to $16 million and hold 18 per cent of deposits in the county. 
Bank holds 12 per cent of such deposits. No other holding company 
is represented in the county. 
Bank's service area is stated by Applicant to consist of 
the village of Kewaskum and the surrounding area, extending approxi-
• r . ... 
i 
, 
lately 4.0 miles north of Bank's office, 6.5 miles east, 3.5 miles 
south and 6.5 miles west, with a total estimated population of approxi-
lately 6,000. The southern boundary of Bank's service area is described 
by 
Applicant as approximately one mile from the northern boundary of the 
Service area of West Bend Marine Bank. However, after consideration of 
a U the facts in the record, the Board concludes that, for purposes of 
the subject application, the relevant market includes the city of West 
Bend and the surrounding communities including the Kewaskum area, the 
Upper two-thirds of Washington County, and the lower portion of Fond 
d u Lac County, including the town of Campbellsport. 

-4-
1617 
West Bend, with a population of about 13,000, is the seat 
Washington County and is the county's commercial and industrial 
center. West Bend attracts workers from nearby towns, including 
Kewaskum. Also, there appears to be a flow of employees from West 
Bend to Kewaskum. 
In its application to the Board to acquire West 
Bend Marine Bank, Applicant described Kewaskum Bank as a competitor 
o f West Bend Marine Bank. 
In explaining its current position that 
these banks are not in competition with each other, Applicant states 
that neither bank solicits business from the other's trade area. 
Even if these two banks have not sought, or acquired, a significant 
amount of business or customers from each other's service area, 
there appears to be no reason why they could not do so. The record 
shows that there are no banks in the relatively short distance inter-
r i n g between Bank and Applicant's subsidiary in West Bend. This 
fact, the proximity of the banks, and the commuting patterns in 
the area tend to support Applicant's earlier conclusion that the 
hanks are competitors. 
In addition, it is noted that Applicant 
considers the First National Bank of West Bend, which is located 
°ne block north of Applicant's West Bend subsidiary, to "be 
directly and most significantly competitive with Bank". Also, 
applicant states that credit unions in West Bend compete with 

Bank for savings dollars, and finance companies in West Bend compete 
with Bank for installment loans; and that savings and loan associa-
tions compete with Bank for savings deposits and mortgage loans 
from the communities of West Bend, Fond du Lac and Milwaukee. Thus 
the facts before the Board indicate that the Kewaskum and West Bend 
communities are economically linked; and Applicant's West Bend sub-
sidiary and Bank compete in the same market. 
The First National Bank of West Bend (deposits $26.6 mil-
lion) is the largest of eight banks in the market with 39.7 per cent 
°f deposits there. Applicant's subsidiary, the West Bend Marine 
Bank, controls over 16 per cent of such deposits and ranks second. 
Bank is the third largest and controls almost 16 per cent of the 
deposits in the area. Of the other five banks in the market, the 
largest has $6.2 million of deposits. On this basis, consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would give Applicant control of the 
second and third largest banks in the market and approximately one-
third of the area's total deposits. 
According to the application, several parties have shown 
an interest in acquiring the shares of the present owners of the Bank 
under arrangements that apparently would not have anticompetitive 
implications and might present pro-competitive considerations. 

1619 
- 6-
On the facts in the record, it appears that consummation of 
the proposal herein would cause a significant increase in concentra-
tion of banking resources in the relevant market area; would eliminate 
competition between banks in the same market; would be to the competi-
tive disadvantage of the smaller banks in the market; and would fore-
close the possibility of alternative proposals for acquisition of 
Bank that would be less anticompetitive than the current proposal, 
and that might lead to the entry of an organization not now represented 
in 
the area and to an increase of competition. 
The Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would have a significantly anticompetitive effect in the relevant local 
area; and the proposed acquisition would not be in the public interest, 
unless such adverse effects are clearly outweighed by considerations 
related to the convenience and needs of the community to be served 
or the banking factors. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant are 
considered to be satisfactory. The condition and management of the 
subsidiaries are also regarded as generally satisfactory, particularly 
in the light of Applicant's plans, and ability, to strengthen the 
capital of a number of the subsidiaries. Prospects of the group 
appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are satisfactory. 
Its prospects appear favorable whether or not it is acquired by Applicant. 

1620 
-7-
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with, but lend no significant weight in favor of, approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - Applicant 
proposes a number of improvements for Bank, including the accommodation 
of larger loans, the expansion of loan and trust department services, 
the offering of foreign trade advice and services and various com-
puter related services, and the introduction of special passbook 
accounts. Applicant also proposes a program for personnel training 
and bank protection. Consummation of the subject proposal may result 
in increasing the amount and quality of banking services offered by 
Bank and may afford added convenience to some of its customers. 
However, it appears that all major banking requirements of the area 
currently are being adequately served and, therefore, such benefits 
as may result from the proposed acquisition fall short of constituting 
a compelling consideration favoring approval of the application. The 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects inherent in the proposal 
are not outweighed by the probable effects of the acquisition in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 
3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 

1621 
acquisition would have a significantly adverse effect on competition, 
without offsetting benefits under the convenience and needs factors 
or the banking factors. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposal would not be in the public interest and that the application 
should be denied. 
May 22, 1970. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
I622 
Item No. 4 
5/22/70 
AO O R ESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
May 25, 1970 
Long Island Trust Company 
82 Seventh Street 
Garden City, New York 11530 
Gentlemen: 
The Board has granted your request for reconsideration 
of its denial of your application to merge with Bank of Westbury 
Trust Company, Westbury, New York. 
Before reconsideration of the application can be 
completed, it will be necessary for you to republish notice of 
the proposed merger and to furnish a certificate of publication 
of the notice to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1 6 2 3 
s i 
W
m
: 
| . •• * > 
W
W 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
5/22/70 
S-2133 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E G P f l U D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
U O A R D 
May 22, 1970. 
Dear Sir: 
At their meeting on April 29, 1970, the Discount Officers of 
the Reserve Banks suggested that the Board's outstanding letter with 
respect to the acccptance of custody receipts on Government securities 
as collateral for advances to member banks (letter of July 2, 1948, 
S-1026, F.R.L.S. #925.06) be amended so that the arrangement may be 
extended to other kinds of collateral. 
The purpose of the Board's letter in proposing the arrange-
ment for Government securities was to enable the Federal Reserve Banks 
to be of greater service to their member banks, particularly by avoiding 
unnecessary shipments of securities with the attendant risks, costs and 
del ays to the borrowing member banks. 
In view of this purpose and in line with the objective of 
simplifying the uue of the discount window, the Board is of the opinion 
that the Reserve Banks may permit responsible correspondent banks to 
hoi d securities as collateral for advances to member banks in any case 
in which the Reserve Bank would be willing to make the loan if the 
collateral were deposited physically at the Bank. The receipts or ad-
vices covering the collateral should, of course, be in a form satisfac-
tory to the Reserve Bank and be issued by a member bank which is 
satisfactory to the Reserve Bank. 
This letter supersedes the Board's letters of November 25, 1947, 
(S-1000) and July 2, 1948, (S-1026). 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
/ 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

T E L E G R A M 
I . E A S E D 
W i R E 
S E R V I C E 
Item Uo. 6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
May 22, 1970 
BODNER - NEW YORK 
Board approves a 90-day extension of loans on gold up to 
a total of $40 million by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to 
the Central Bank of the Philippines on the terms described in your 
wire of May 21 and subject to the conditions outlined. 
(Signed) 
HOLLAND 

OfCQw^ 
1625 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
5/22/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 27, 1970. 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in the Guide-
lines and Objectives for Health Insurance, recommended by the 
Conference of Presidents at its meeting of March 9, 1970, as follows 
(1) All Reserve Banks and Branches are authorized 
to pay the full individual health insurance 
premium on behalf of each covered employee and 
eligible retiree; 
(2) All offices are similarly authorized to pay 
two-thirds of the additional premium applying 
to family coverage. 
The Board also considered but did not approve the proposal 
that Reserve Banks and Branches in communities where prevailing 
community practices favor more than two-thirds payment for family 
coverage be authorized to absorb up to the full amount of the premiums 
for that coverage. 
It is understood that the effective date of the change 
referred to in (1) above will be at the convenience of the Reserve 
Bank concerned to accommodate the varying payroll practices of the 
Banks. 
Advice of this action is being sent to the President of 
each Federal Reserve Bank today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
cc: Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Chairman, Committee on Management and Personnel 
Mr. Lester M. Selby, Secretary, Conference of Presidents 
Mr. Marcus A. Harris, Chairman, Retirement Committee 

i(ii>6 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
. ^ O V C O V ' - . 
D P T H E 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/22/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
Z0551 
%;: ffifh-^; 
I ' V ^ X - ^ 1 . * 
A D D R E S S 
O r F I C I A L 
C n R R E E P O N D E N C E 
' 
4! - " J/. ^ . 
' OX'k'^^V. 
Ta thc BOARD 
June 4, 1970. 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President:, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors has taken the following action after 
consideration of proposals of the Conference of Presidents relating 
to maximum payment in cases of involuntary separation from service. 
In cases of involuntary termination of employment of an 
employee not for reasons of dishonesty, misconduct, or insubordina-
tion the Reserve Banks are authorised at their discretion to nay 
dismissal wages or a separation allowance in an amount not to exceed 
one-half of a month's salary for each year of service, or fraction 
thereof, with a maximum payment equal to one year's salary, provided 
that payment under this provision should not exceed the salary payable 
to retirement at age 65. 
It is appropriate for a Reserve Bank to consider all service 
of an employee at any Reserve System Office in determining the maximum 
permissible payment under this provision. 
The former requirement that any doubtful case be brought to 
the Board1s attention for review of eligibility is discontinued. 
In cases of involuntary termination of employment of a Reserve 
Bank officer, prior Board approval will be required for the payment of 
a separation allowance. 
• 
This letter supersedes FRLS 230.20 and 230.21. A copy is 
being sent direct to the President of each Federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
