MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 22, 1970 
:v ' i 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 22, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Chairman Burns invited discussion of the June 2, 1970, document 
entitled "A Proposed Voluntary Guide to Conduct for Senior Officials of 
the Federal Reserve System" that had been prepared by the special 
committee consisting of Governor Robertson, as Chairman, Governor Daane, 
and Presidents Hayes and Heflin, and the memorandum of additional views 
' •. i - . * »-' I' * x 
• 
submitted by Governor Daane under date of June 3, 1970. 
In introduction, Governor Robertson explained that the committee 
report was designed to provide broad guidelines to alert responsible 
offic 
ials to hazards to guard against, rather than to lay down concrete 
rules for behavior. 
General agreement was indicated with the spirit of the proposed 
guide to conduct. Thereafter, discussion turned to suggested clarifi-
cations of particular points in the document. With respect to para-
graph 3, it was agreed that the annual financial statements to be 
I./ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

10/22/70 
- 2 -
filed by each Federal Reserve Bank President and First Vice President 
should include the financial interests of the immediate families of 
such officers, as was true for the financial statements filed by 
Board members with the Chairman of the Civil Service Commission. It 
was further suggested that such statements by the Reserve Bank officials 
should be supplied regularly to the Chairman of the Board of Governors, 
rather than only upon request as indicated in the committee report. 
With respect to paragraph 4, it was suggested that "honoraria" 
be explicitly added to the list of favors that should not be accepted 
under the conditions specified. It was noted that the term "honorarium" 
had an element of ambiguity, and in discussion it was made clear that 
the language of this paragraph was not intended to discourage accep-
tance of payments flowing from work performed prior to Federal Reserve 
service (e.g., royalties on books previously written) or reimbursement 
for expenses incurred in connection with the types of affiliations with 
nonprofit and public service institutions generally regarded as appro-
priate by the Board (e.g., service as a university trustee). 
Discussion of the last three paragraphs of the committee 
report, concerning speeches, was deferred until the Board meeting on 
October 27, 1970. 
Chairman Burns also raised for preliminary discussion the 
matter of Reserve Bank membership in bankers associations. He and 
other Board members expressed reservations as to the desirability of 

10/22/70 
-3-
10/'?/: (: 
continuing such a relationship and asked that the staff develop a back-
ground memorandum on the subject that could be a matter for early 
Board attention. 
Discount rates. The Board had been informed that the directors 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on October 19, 1970, had estab-
lished, subject to review and determination by the Board of Governors, 
a rate of 5-3/4 per cent (rather than 6 per cent) on discounts for 
and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
, • r u 
Reserve Act; a rate of 6-1/4 per cent (rather than 6-1/2 per cent) on 
L 1 ' ; 
« 
• 
: * 
advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act; and a rate of 
' -I 
; > i"V 
7-1/2 
per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corpora-
tions other than member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 
of the Act. 
After discussion* it was decided to take no action on the rates 
established by the directors of the Boston Bank. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, Minneapolis, and San Francisco on October 15 
and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on October 16, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 

10/22/70 
-4-
!' 11 : •. . 
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Sanders and Noble, Assistant General 
Counsel, and Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal 
Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Solomon, Director, Leavitt, Deputy 
Director, Dahl, Egertson, and Lyon, 
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lawrence, Chief, Banking Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
-
, 
, T J , . I.--* I 
. • 
. 
- ; •• 
; ••>«' • 
-1 ; 
. 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. The Board unanimously approved 
the application of Security Pacific Overseas Corp., Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, for consent to purchase the shares of Security Pacific Overseas 
Investment Corporation, a newly-formed Delaware corporation, and for the 
latter to issue 5-year promissory notes to be sold outside the United 
S. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
Fidelity International Corporation. At its meeting on 
Septemb 
er 22, 1970, the Board considered the request of The Fidelity 
International Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for amendment 
of the Board's requirement that its indirect holding of shares of 

%887 
10/22/70 
- 5 -
Fidusse, S.A., an Argentine company currently engaged in cattle raising, 
be reduced sufficiently that control could not be exercised. The Board 
requested that certain questions be explored with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia, and in a memorandum dated October 12, 1970, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation presented the findings of such 
inquiries and suggested as alternative courses of action (1) that 
Fidelity International Corporation be permitted to continue as a minority 
shareholder in Fidusse provided that its present majority position was 
reduced to a minority by the end of 1970; (2) that the corporation be 
required to dispose of all of its shares in Fidusse within a specified 
time; and (3) that alternative (1) be adopted but the corporation be 
informed that the propriety of this investment was subject to further 
review by the Board. 
Discussion centered principally around the stated intention of 
Fidelity International Corporation eventually to convert Fidusse into 
a financing organization and gradually to convert ownership interest 
to that of a minority shareholder. It was brought out that the initial 
investment equal to 87-1/2 per cent of ownership had been reduced to 
about 58 per cent in August 1970 and was expected to be reduced to 
47 per cent by the end of the year. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that each of the alterna-
tives mentioned was inconsistent with the Board's position that it was 
inappropriate for Edge corporations, as financial institutions, to 

z
s
m 
10/22/70 
- 6 -
acquire a majority of the shares or otherwise to hold a controlling 
interest in non-financial or non-banking businesses. He thought the 
Board should not acquiesce in the holding of the stock any longer 
than necessary to dispose of it without hardship. At least a sub-
stantial reduction in equity should be required in order to preclude 
control. 
Governor Robertson agreed that, if conversion to a financing 
operation was only a possibility for some future date, the Board 
should not permit the continued holding of shares of Fidusse in the 
meantime. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that an important point 
was the Edge corporation's intention with respect to reducing its 
equity in Fidusse and converting it to a financing operation. Since 
progress was being made in reducing the equity, he suggested that it 
would be appropriate to extend the time limit specified in the Board's 
letter of April 2, 1970, for relinquishing control, with a statement 
of the Board's expectation of progress toward contemplation of conver-
sion to financing. The ensuing discussion developed support for 
Governor Mitchell's suggestion. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to Fidelity 
International Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
American Bank and Trust Company. On September 29, 1970, the 
Board denied, Governor Sherrill dissenting, the application of American 

10/22/70 
- 7 -
Bank and Trust Company, Lansing, Michigan, to consolidate with The 
National Bank of Eaton Rapids, Eaton Rapids, Michigan. An order and 
statement reflecting the decision had been distributed, along with a 
dissenting statement by Governor Sherrill. Among the arguments cited 
in support of the decision was the fact that an alternative merger had 
been available, namely, with National Bank of Jackson, Michigan, which 
appeared to be as financially attractive as the proposal by American 
Bank and Trust Company, and to represent a prospect of significant new 
competition and eventual deconcentration of area banking. 
In a memorandum dated October 20, 1970, the Banking Markets 
Section expanded its previous report regarding the effect of a possible 
alternative merger with National Bank of Jackson, which had made a firm 
offer that had been rejected by the Eaton Rapids bank in favor of the 
offer made by American Bank and Trust Company. The memorandum described 
the effect of Michigan State laws limiting branching upon the two merger 
proposals. 
Chairman Burns stated that he had had misgivings regarding the 
Board's action and had been impressed by the arguments in Governor 
Sherrill's dissenting statement. Having given further study to the 
background information, he now requested that the case be reconsidered. 
By unanimous vote, the Board agreed to reconsider the case. 
Governor Sherrill explained that his dissent was based on 
two principal points, one of which was fundamental to the Board's 

<£830 
10/22/70 
- 8 -
responsibility under the law. In his view, the Board was required to 
decide whether an application was acceptable or unacceptable under the 
statutory criteria. If it was acceptable, he believed that the Board 
should not deny an application merely because a preferable offer, from 
the Board's point of view, might be available. While it was proper to 
take potential competition into account, he did not believe it was the 
province of the Board to arrange the financial structure of the country. 
His second point, Governor Sherrill continued, related to the 
particular case. He thought there was sufficient weight in the con-
venience and needs factor to overcome any slight anticompetitive effect. 
Moreover, it was of serious concern to him that in denying the appli-
cation the Board might be superimposing its supervisory judgment on 
that of the banks' management and owners. 
Governor Maisel stated that, in his opinion, Congress had said 
that a merger was a privilege, had put bank mergers under a special act 
that was, irnessence, an anti-merger act, and had set criteria for use 
by the regulatory agencies in determining whether, in the public interest, 
permission to merge should or should not be granted. He did not believe 
that Congress would have passed the Bank Merger Act if it had intended 
that business judgments should govern. Instead, where it was the duty 
°f the regulatory 
agency to appraise the over-all competitive situation, 
it was proper to consider alternatives and even to give weight to any 

2 8 9 ! 
10/22/70 
- 9 -
real probability that a better alternative might arise in the future. 
Also, in his view the public interest was the dominating factor, and 
Congress had made it clear that the regulatory agencies were expected 
to go beyond the Sherman and Clayton Acts in making judgments regarding 
the public interest. 
Governor Sherrill emphasized that he, too, placed primary 
importance on the public interest. Indeed, he believed that the law 
as written imposed limitations on mergers principally to avoid anti-
competitive effects, but it also provided that a merger could be con-
summated if such effects were clearly outweighed by other factors, such 
as convenience and needs. He did not regard the law as an anti-merger 
law, but one under which some mergers should not be allowed. The Board 
f 
c 
must decide whether or not a given application was allowable under the 
statutory criteria, but its decision should not be based upon conjecture 
as to what other arrangement would provide a better banking structure. 
Chairman Burns cited passages from the memorandum prepared by 
the Research Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago indicating 
that the acquisition "would foreclose little present direct competition; 
each bank has relatively few customers in the other's service area," 
and "the potential competition of the two banks is great and increasing." 
The 
first was presumed to be a factual statement regarding present 
conditions, the second a judgment about the future that could be right 

10/22/70 
-10-
or wrong. He noted also that the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
had called attention to the fact that since Michigan National Bank, 
Lansing, Michigan, currently operated the nearest offices to both 
the main office and branch of the Eaton Rapids bank, the proposal 
could tend to intensify competition between Michigan National and 
American Bank and Trust Company, the two largest area banks, in the 
Eaton Rapids and Dimondale areas. Taking these positions altogether, 
he did not feel that the anticompetitive effects were so clear that 
the application should be denied. Also, as previously indicated, 
he found Governor Sherrill's arguments persuasive, although he might 
differ on points of detail. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that both the present 
) ' 
i . i 
• . o. 
application and the Connecticut case on today s agenda were close. 
The Banking Markets Section had responded to his request for certain 
additional information, and he now found himself sharing the Section's 
view that with little weight either for or against the American Bank 
and Trust Company proposal, approval would be appropriate. On the 
ba sis of further information he would vote with a majority for approval 
if one should develop. 
I 
Governor Daane commented that at the first consideration of 
the case he had not felt conviction in either direction. His basic 
philosophy, like Governor Sherrill's, was that the Board should not 
attempt to read the law on a conjectural basis. The conclusion that 

2 8 9 3 
10/22/70 
-11-
potential competition might be foreclosed was a reading of the future. 
In the light of the possibility of greater competition with Michigan 
National Bank, and the fact that the Eaton Rapids bank, having examined 
the merger proposal of National Bank of Jackson, chose the offer made 
by American Bank and Trust Company, he would now vote to approve. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that it was not proper for 
the Board to approach its decision on the basis that it should not 
impose its judgment against the judgment of bank management in cases 
where there was not substantial or significant anticompetitive conse-
quence. In the absence of substantial anticompetitive effect, he 
believed that the Board must come to a judgment, with the guiding 
principle being the public interest. He had found the draft of state-
ment in support of denial a logical one, and would vote to deny. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he put a substantial amount of 
weight on the question of potential competition, in view of the 
alternative offer that had been made. He thought the statement in 
support of denial had gone straight to the issue, and would vote to 
deny. 
Governor Sherrill, Chairman Burns, and Governor Mitchell then 
stated that they would vote to approve, while Governor Robertson spoke 
in favor of denial. 
The application of American Bank and Trust Company was 
thereupon approved, Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. 

2 8 9 4 
10/22/70 
-12-
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting 
statement also would be prepared. 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. On September 29, 1970, 
the Board considered the application of The Connecticut Bank and Trust 
Company, Hartford, Connecticut, to merge The North Side Bank and Trust 
Company, Bristol, Connecticut. Any merger with an out-of-town bank 
would remove home office protection from Bristol, and interest was 
expressed by members of the Board in verification of reports that other 
merger offers had been made. 
In a memorandum of October 5, the Banking Markets Section and 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation stated that it appeared that 
a number of banks had been negotiating with North Side Bank and that 
Connecticut Bank and Trust was the first to make an acceptable offer. 
The other banks remained interested in working out a merger with or an 
acquisition of North Side Bank. 
The Banking Markets Section, in a memorandum of October 20, 
presented supplemental information regarding the branching provisions 
of Connecticut law, including its strong home office protection features, 
the past acquisition history of Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, and 
interlocks between mutual savings banks and commercial banks in the 
Hartford area. 

%887 
10/22/70 
-13-
Mr. Lawrence indicated that the adverse recommendation of the 
Banking Markets Section had been based principally on the fact that 
Bristol was on the edge of the Hartford market, which was dominated 
by Connecticut Bank and Trust Company and Hartford National Bank and 
Trust Company, each of which had about 18 per cent of the State's 
commercial bank deposits. 
Governor Mitchell commented that because of the monopolistic 
nature of Connecticut law it was difficult to reach decisions that 
would result in increased competition. With respect to the present 
very narrow case, he had leaned toward approval previously, but after 
further thought had concluded that an outright denial would be pref-
erable. In the light of negotiations that had taken place for other 
mergers, he had no doubt that the Bristol bank would be sold to a less 
dominant bank than Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. 
Governor Daane said that he disliked basing a decision on 
conjecture; he was inclined toward approval, but if he found himself 
the lone dissenter he would join the majority. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the determining feature 
was the dominance of the two Hartford banks. He considered that cir-
cumstance adverse to the public interest and therefore would vote to 
deny. 
Other members of the Board also expressed adverse positions 
and were joined by Governor Daane. Governor Sherrill associated himself 

2 8 8 8 
10/22/70 
-14-
with Governor Maisel's position regarding the domination of the 
Hartford banks. 
The application of Connecticut Bank and Trust Company was 
thereupon denied by unanimous vote. It was understood that an order 
and statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company. The Board unanimously 
approved the applications of Georgia Railroad Bank & Trust Company, 
Augusta, Georgia, to merge Richmond County Bank, Augusta, Georgia, 
and Metropolitan State Bank, also of Augusta, with the understanding 
that orders would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Southwest Bancshares. The Board unanimously approved the 
application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of the successor 
by merger to Bank of the Southwest National Association, Houston, Texas, 
and beneficial ownership of shares of seven other Texas banks. The 
Board also authorized the issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
that decision. Copies are attached under Item No. 3. 
Southeast Bancorporation. On October 6, 1970, the Board discussed 
the applications of Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to 
acquire shares of (1) Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, Hollywood, 
Florida; (2) The Bank of Hollywood Hills, Hollywood, Florida; and (3) 
Bank of Miramar, Miramar, Florida (all members of the "Mailman Group"). 

ZSB7 
10/22/70 
-15-
Tentative views indicated a unanimous inclination to deny the applica-
tion to acquire Hollywood Bank and Trust Company and to approve acqui-
sition of Bank of Miramar. However, views were mixed with respect to 
acquisition of The Bank of Hollywood Hills, and action was therefore 
deferred until additional members of the Board could participate. 
Discussion disclosed agreement by Governors Mitchell and Maisel, 
who had not been present during the earlier discussion, with the tenta-
tive views reached by other members of the Board with respect to the 
applications to acquire Hollywood Bank and Trust Company and Bank of 
Miramar. With respect to The Bank of Hollywood Hills application, 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill 
indicated a favorable position, while Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
advocated denial. 
The application of Southeast Bancorporation to acquire shares 
of Hollywood Bank and Trust Company was thereupon denied unanimously; 
the application to acquire shares of The Bank of Hollywood Hills was 
approved. Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting; and the appli-
cation to acquire shares of Bank of Miramar was approved unanimously. 
It was understood that appropriate implementing documents would be 
Prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Governors Daane and Brimmer withdrew from the meeting at 
this point. 

10/22/70 
-16-
First National Bancorporation. After reivew of documentation 
relating to the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The Security State Bank of 
Sterling, Sterling, Colorado, discussion indicated a favorable view 
on the part of all members of the Board except Governor Robertson, 
who objected on the ground that the application, in which a bank with 
extensive correspondent relationships would take over a small bank, 
represented a process working toward substantial concentration. 
The application was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration and that a 
statement presenting Governor Robertson's view might be prepared. 
After review of relevant documentation, the application of 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire 
shares of The Exchange National Bank of Colorado Springs, Colorado 
Springs, Colorado, was denied unanimously, it being understood that 
documents reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Loans on bank stocks. In a memorandum dated October 21, 1970, 
Governor Mitchell referred to recent discussions with the Comptroller 
of the Currency and the Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation resulting in a proposal that the Federal bank supervisory 

10/22/70 
-17-
agencies send a letter to banks in their primary jurisdictions calling 
attention to recent expressions by the Department of Justice regarding 
the use of interbank deposits as compensating balances for loans to 
individuals connected with the depositing banks. Governor Mitchell 
recommended sending such a letter, a draft of which was attached. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell spoke about the considera-
tion given by the Federal bank supervisors to sending a letter setting 
up guidelines for dealing with the problem of loans on bank stock. A 
draft was attached to his memorandum, but for reasons that he mentioned 
he did not advocate prescribing guidelines at the present time. However, 
he urged that the Board look into the question of loans on stock, which 
raised a number of issues. 
There was agreement that the question should be studied and, 
with minor changes, the letter calling attention to the views of the 
Department of Justice was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
State member banks by the Federal Reserve Banks. A copy is attached 
a s Item No. 4. 
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation. Mr. Noble reported 
that an appeal had been filed in the Eighth Circuit Court of Appeals 
hy banks protesting the Board's order of September 22, 1970, approving 
the application of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, 

2900 
10/22/70 
-18-
Arkansas, to become a bank holding company. It was expected that the 
Department of Justice would handle the Board's defense. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B C D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
2301 
Item No, 1 
10/22/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 22, 1970. 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp., 
561 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90014 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 24, 1970, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("SPOC") 
to purchase and hold all of the shares of Security Pacific Overseas 
Investment Corporation ("SPOIC"), a newly formed Delaware corpora-
tion, at a cost of approximately §5,000,000, provided such shares 
are acquired within one year frcm the date of this letter. 
In this 
connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of such 
shares by SPOC in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in 
the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board!s consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of SFOIC by SPOC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That SPOC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of SPOIC: 
(i) if SPOIC at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock; (ii) if SPOIC establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in any manner which at the time 
would not be permissible to SPCC; or (iii) if SPOIC 
receives any deposits in the United States; 
(2) That, when required by the Board fof Governors, SPOC 
will cause SFOIC (a) tc permit examiners appointed 
by the Board of Governors to examine SPOIC, and (b) 
to furnish the Board of Governors with such reports 
as it may require from time to time; and 

2902 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. -2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by SPOIC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if SPOIC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
As requested in your letter and on the basis of information 
furnished, the Board of Governors also grants consent for the issuance 
by SPOIC of up to $25,000,000 of 5-year notes to be sold outside the 
United States, the proceeds of which are to be used exclusively in the 
foreign business of SPOIC. 
The Board understands that Security Pacific National Bank 
("SPNB") might guarantee payment of the notes issued by SPOIC. Such 
a guaranty would make the notes direct primary obligations of SPNB. 
If SPNB's obligation under the guaranty is payable at any of its 
offices in the United States, such notes would be "deposits" of SPNB 
under Sections 204.1(f) of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q, 
unless one of the exceptions specified in those Sections were appli-
cable. 
(See Federal Reserve Bulletin for February 1970, page 140.) 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the foreign lending and investment activities of SPOIC will 
be governed by the foreign credit restraint guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
10/22/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 29, 1970 
The Fidelity International Corporation, 
123 South Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19109 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of June 25, 1970, the Board 
of Governors amends its letter of April 2, 1970, relating to your 
Corporation's indirect holding of a controlling interest in 
Fidus se, S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina, so that the pertinent por-
tion of the last paragraph reads ". . . should be accomplished by 
December 31, 1970." 
The foregoing extension of time is granted on the under-
standing that your Corporation is not now, directly or indirectly, 
exercising any operational or management control of Fidusse, S.A., 
and in the expectation that by December 31, 1971, substantial prog-
ress will have been made in the contemplated alteration of the 
nature of the business of Fidusse, S.A. from that of cattle raising 
to that of a company engaged in financial operations. Your Corpora-
tion should keep the Board informed, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia, of the plans for and the progress made in 
altering Fidusse's business, with a complete report to be received 
no later than November 30, 1971. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2904 
Item No. 3 
10/22/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of ' 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC., 
1 
Houston, Texas, 
1 
for approval of action to become a 
1 
bank holding company. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(l))> and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southwest Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, for the Boardfs prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the merger 
Bank of the Southwest National Association," Houston,'Texas, 
into a nonoperating bank of which Applicant owns all but directors' 
qualifying shares, and, as an incident to the merger, acquisition 
o f beneficial ownership of shares of seven other Texas banks, as 
follows: South Park National Bank of Houston, C3 c5 per cent); 
Commercial State Bank, Houston (20.3 per cent); Gulf Coast National 
Houston (19„1 per cent); Western National Bank of Houston 

2905 
- 2 -
(16.9 per cent); Long Point National Bank of Houston (14.7 per cent); 
The First National Bank of Longview (22.1 per cent); and The Kilgore 
•" »•* 
National Bank, Kilgore (24,7 per cent). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and the Texas Commissioner of Banking, and requested their views and 
recommendations# 
Both recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 30, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12240), pro-
dding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
Its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date of this 

uj* 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
• S » ' 
. 
. 
.. 
» 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 22, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2907 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC„, HOUSTON, TEXAS, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
fco become a registered bank holding company through the merger of 
Bank of the Southwest National Association, Houston, Texas ("BSW"), 
i n t o a nonoperating bank of which Applicant owns all but directors1 
<lu&Iifying shares and, as an incident to the merger, acquisition of 
beneficial ownership of shares of seven other Texas banks, as follows: 
33.5 per cent of the shares of South Parle National Bank of Houston 
("South Park Bank"); 20.3 per cent of the shares of Commercial State 
Houston ("Commercial Bank"); 19.1 per cent of the shares of 
Gulf Coast National Bank, Houston ("Gulf Coast Bank"); 16.9 per cent 
o f the shares of Western National Bank of Houston ("Western Bank"); 
per cent of the shares of Long Point National Bank of Houston 
("Long Point Bank"); 22.1 per cent of the shares of The First National 
of Longvieu ("Longview Bank"); and 24.7 per cent of the shares 
0 f Ihe Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore ("Kilgore Bank"). The described 

2908 
- 2 -
shares of the seven other banks are owned by Houston Southwest 
Corporation, all of the shares of which are held by trustees for the 
benefit of shareholders of BSW; as a result of the merger, Applicant 
will succeed to beneficial ownership of all of the shares of Houston 
Southwest Corporation, and , indirectly, of the shares of the seven banks. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Tescas Commissioner of Banking, and requested their views and recommendations. 
Both recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
fchat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to le ssen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly out-
sighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
an<3 managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t° be served. 

- 2 -
2909 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The bank into 
which BSW will be merged is not an operating bank. It has significance 
°nly as a vehicle for accomplishing the acquisition by Applicant of all 
°f the shares of BSW. 
BSU ($649 million deposits), located in downtown Houston, is the 
third largest Houston bank, with 12 per cent of deposits held by all banks 
in the Houston metropolitan area; it Is the fifth largest Texas bank, with 
2.7 per cent of State-uide deposits. 
South Park Bank ($7 million deposits), Western Bank ($35 million 
^Posits), Long Point Bank ($23 million deposits), Commercial Bank ($18 
million deposits), and Gulf Coast Bank ($10 million deposits) are located 
in the Houston suburban area, As a group, they control 1.7 per cent of 
deposits in the Houston area, BSU, between 1956 and 1960, sponsored the 
°rganization of four of these. Houston Southwest Corporation acquired 
its interest in the fifth in settlement of a debt. 
Kilgore Bank ($15 million deposits) is the larger of two banks 
Seated in Kilgore, and Longview Bank ($36 million deposits) is the 
s°cond largest of five banks in Longview. Both Kilgore and Longview are 
located about 200 miles from Houston. 
Inasmuch as the proposal involves essentially a reorganization 
o f existing interests, and reflects neither expansion of the group nor 
a n increase in the banking resources controlled by it, consummation of 
applicant's proposal would not alter existing banking competition, nor 
affect potential competition. 

2910 
- 2 -
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would not 
restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a 
monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant would begin operations in a satisfactory financial condition. 
Its management is competent, and its prospects, which are dependent upon 
those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
BSIJ and South Park Bank are in satisfactory condition, with 
competent managements, and have favorable prospects. The banking factors 
with 
respect to the six other banks are also considered satisfactory. 
The banking factors, as they relate to Applicant, its proposed 
subsidiaries, and the other six banks, are consistent with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
convenience and needs of the communities served by the banks involved 
Would not be materially affected by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the areas 
involved are consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 

- 2 -
2911 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
October 22, 1970 

yg; 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 4 
10/22/70 
October 26, 1970 
TO THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF EACH MEMBER STATE BANK: 
I would like to bring to your attention the following views 
expressed by the Assistant Attorney General in charge of the Criminal 
Division of the Department of Justice in a letter to the Comptroller 
of the Currency with respect to the use of interbank deposits as com-
pensating balances for loans to individuals connected with the deposi-
ting bank: 
"Reference is made to the conversations which respresentatives 
of the Criminal Division have had with you and members of your staff 
concerning the practice of bank officials utilizing the correspondent 
accounts of their banks for the purpose of compensating lending banks 
for loans granted to these officials. By using these non-interest 
bearing correspondent accounts in this manner, some borrowing officials 
have been able to obtain loans at preferential rates and to circumvent 
other statutes and administrative regulations promulgated for the 
protection of Federally regulated or insured banks. Since the borrower 
maintains these balances as a condition of the loan, he is able to 
utilize the funds and credits of his bank for his own personal benefit. 
"Investigation into this area disclosed that this practice 
is fairly widespread, particularly in certain areas of the country, 
both in the initial acquisition of a bank and at subsequent times. 
There are no cases, at the present time, construing this practice as 
a misapplication under the criminal statutes. We believe, however, 
that where the facts demonstrate a clear detriment to the bank and a 
concomitant benefit to its officers this activity would, at a minimum, 
constitute a breach of the fiduciary duty owed by the officials to 
the bank and might in certain situations warrant prosecutive action. 
"In light of the foregoing, your office, together with the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board, and 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, may wish to consider advising the 
banking industry of our view that the above practice might constitute 
a violation of Federal criminal statutes." 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
