MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 3, 1969 

427 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 3, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman!/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics^./ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance^/ 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Semia of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Economic review. The Division of International Finance 
reported on international economic and financial developments, follow-
ing which the Division of Research and Statistics presented information 
on the domestic economy. The presentation was based in part on material 
prepared for the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee to be held 
tomorrow. 
Copies of the pertinent documents have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
1/ 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

428 
2/3/69 
-6-
Members of the staff concerned with the economic review then 
withdrew and the following entered, along with appropriate supporting 
staff: 
Messrs. Hexter, General Counsel, and O'Connell, Deputy 
General Counsel 
Messrs. Farrell, Director, Kiley, Associate Director, 
and Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Partee, Associate Director, and Axilrod, Assistant 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Leavitt, Deputy Director, and Egertson, Assistant 
Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Utica, Utica, Ohio, into The First National Bank of Newark, Ohio, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First National 
Bank of Utica and The First National Bank of Newark, a subsidiary 
of BancOhio Corporation, a registered bank holding company, would 
eliminate competition existing between them. In addition, 
competition existing between The First National Bank of Utica and 
Knox County Savings Bank, Mount Vernon, also a subsidiary of 
BancOhio Corporation, would be eliminated. The overall competi-
tive effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of Union Security National Bank of Tulsa, Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, and National Bank of Tulsa, Tulsa, Oklahoma. The conclusion 
stated that consummation of the proposed merger (designed to facilitate 

_ 429 
2/3/69 
-3-
acquisition of the existing bank by a newly-formed holding company) 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed acquisition of City Bank of San Diego, San Diego, 
California, by California Canadian Bank, San Francisco, California. 
The conclusion stated that the overall effect on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
Attention was called to the fact that California Canadian 
Bank had obtained approval to establish a de novo branch in San Diego 
which, in the absence of the proposed merger, would compete with City 
Bank of San Diego. However, if the merger were approved and consum-
mated, California Canadian Bank intended to abandon its plans for that 
branch. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the transaction should 
be termed "adverse" rather than "slightly adverse". He suggested that 
the conclusion so state and that the body of the report be strengthened 
accordingly. Governor Maisel expressed an inclination to use the term 
"adverse," but other members of the Board preferred the present 
wording. Governor Mitchell remarked that according to experience it 
could be expected that the institution resulting from the merger would 
not reach a substantial size very quickly, and Governor Sherrill said 
he believed that the combination of the two banks would provide better 
competition for the larger banks in San Diego. 

5 
2/3/69 
-6-
The report was thereupon approved for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion reading as 
follows, with the understanding that Governors Maisel and Brimmer 
would have preferred to cite the effect on competition as adverse: 
The purchase of assets and assumption of deposit lia-
bilities of City Bank of San Diego, San Diego, California, 
by California Canadian Bank, San Francisco, California, a 
wholly owned subsidiary of The Canadian Imperial Bank of 
Commerce, Toronto, Canada, would eliminate virtually no 
present competition. However, it would eliminate potential 
competition between the two banks, particularly that which 
would result were California Canadian Bank to open the de 
novo branch in San Diego for which it now has approval. 
The overall effect on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Pan American Bancshares. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order and statement, as drafted for the Board's consideration, reflect-
ing approval on December 20, 1968, of the application of Pan American 
Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of Pan American Bank of Miami, Miami, 
Florida, Bank of Dade County, North Dade County, Florida and Manu-
facturers National Bank of Hialeah, Hialeah, Florida. 
Copies of the 
order and statement are attached under Item No. 1. 
A number of staff members who had been in attendance withdrew 
at this point or earlier. 
Quarterly review of financial developments. With a memorandum 
from Mr. Brill dated January 30, 1969, there had been distributed a 
draft of a review of financial developments in the fourth quarter of 
1968, prepared for submission to the Joint Economic Committee in 
accordance with current arrangements with that Committee. 

431 
2/3/69 
-5-
After a discussion during which there was agreement with 
various suggestions for strengthening particular points, the report 
was approved unanimously, subject to editorial changes. A copy of 
the letter subsequently transmitted to the Chairman of the Committee 
is attached 
Item No. 2j a copy of the report has been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Treasury proposal for immediate credit. Pursuant to the under-
standing at the meeting of the Board on December 31, 1968, Reserve Bank 
Presidents Scanlon and Morris and Mr. Farrell met on January 13, 1969, 
with representatives of the Treasury Department for discussion of the 
Treasury's proposal that the Federal Reserve Banks give immediate 
credit for all Government deposits. 
The principal objective of the 
proposal was to achieve greater flexibility in operating under the 
debt limit. The Conference of Presidents had taken a position against 
the proposal, principally for reasons relating to float. 
The Legal 
Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York had indicated that 
there might be a legal problem involved in that the granting to the 
Treasury of credit for uncollected items would constitute an unautho-
rized extension of credit by the Federal Reserve Banks to the U.S. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 27, 
1969, in which Mr. Farrell summarized the discussion at the Treasury-
Federal Reserve meeting and discussed the ramifications of the 
questions related to float and the reporting procedures suggested by 
the Treasury. He commented also on a suggestion made by the Manager 

432 
2/3/69 
-6-
of the System Open Market Account that in lieu of giving the Treasury 
immediate credit the Reserve Banks make their interest payments on 
Federal Reserve notes to the Treasury on an accelerated basis. 
All 
of the Reserve Banks had indicated willingness to accelerate the 
interest payments, at least temporarily, and Mr. Farrell's memorandum 
included a recommended schedule for such acceleration. 
The Board had also been furnished a memorandum from Mr. Hackley 
dated January 31 in which he commented on the legal aspects of three 
suggestions for possible temporary assistance to the Treasury. 
At today's meeting, after introductory remarks by Mr. Farrell, 
Mr. Hackley reviewed the history of the time schedule for granting 
credit on checks. Although the two-day maximum deferment that had 
been in effect in recent years was less than the time required for 
actual collection of many items, the schedule had been defended on the 
ground that it contributed to the efficient administration of the 
check collection function. He concurred with the view of the New York 
Res erve Bank's legal staff that immediate credit should not be given 
to the Treasury because such a procedure would amount to a direct 
extension of credit to the Treasury that was not authorized by law. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the proposal of the Treasury 
raised a question that he would like to have explored. 
In cities where 
branch banking was prevalent, both city items and country items were 
processed at the same centers, but deferred credit was given on the 

8 
2/3/69 
-6-
country items. He believed it should be possible to give immediate 
credit to everyone. If it should prove possible to do so, that would 
be advantageous to the Treasury. 
Governor Daane said it appeared to him that the basic purpose 
of the Treasury in requesting immediate credit was borrowing. 
Since 
the Treasury had a direct borrowing privilege under the Federal Reserve 
Act, he did not believe it was appropriate to allow immediate credit to 
the Treasury on checks. He did not have the same objection to acceler-
ating interest payments, however, and he would not want to take a 
negative stand on that point. 
Further discussion dealt principally with Treasury cash flows 
and the probability of pressure on Treasury balances in coming months. 
Comments were made on another possibility that had been mentioned as 
a means of easing the Treasury
f
s situation, namely, System warehousing 
of foreign currency assets held by the Treasury. 
The discussion resulted in agreement that Mr. Farrell would 
inform President Scanlon that the Board supported the position taken 
by the Conference of Presidents against the granting of immediate 
credit to the Treasury, but with an understanding that the question of 
accelerating interest payments to the*Treasury would remain open. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting during the preceding 
discussion. 
Labor relations consultant. At recent meetings the Board had 
discussed engaging a labor relations consultant to assist in the 

434 
2/3/69 
-6-
formulation of a System labor-management policy. The names of a number 
of experts had been suggested for consideration, and Governor Sherrill 
had been requested to explore the matter further. 
Discussion at today's meeting centered principally around the 
suitability of one possible appointee in particular, and around the 
question whether he should be invited to attend a forthcoming joint 
meeting of the Board with the Reserve Bank Presidents. The consensus 
was against such a procedure, it being felt that greater progress 
should be made toward a meeting of the minds within the System before 
a consultant was brought into the deliberations. 
It was understood 
that the possible selection of the particular person under consider-
ation would be pursued through interviews with him by individual mem-
bers of the Board. 
Further comments also were made on the question whether or not 
a System policy should be patterned after Executive Order 10988. 
However, today's discussion of that point was not definitive. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

135 
Item N o . 1 
2/3/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 93.7 per cent of the voting shares of 
Pan American Bank of Miami, Miami, 
Florida; 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Bank of Dade County, 
North Dade County, Florida; and 51 pcr'ci 
or more of the voting shares of 
Manufacturers National Bank of Hialeah, 
Hialeah, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors,-^pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Pan American 
Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 93.7 per cent of the voting shares of Pan American 
Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida; 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Bank of Dade County, North Dade County, Florida; and 51 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Manufacturers National Bank of Hialeah, 
Hialeah, Florida. 

436 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Commissioner of Banking of 
the State of Florida of receipt of the application and requested their 
views and recommendations. Both the Comptroller and the Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 26, 1968 (33 Federal Register 15892), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 3rd day of February, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

437 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
PAN AMERICAN BANCSHARES, INC., 
MIAMI, FLORIDA, TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company. Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 93.7 per cent of the voting shares 
°f the Pan American Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida ("Miami Bank"); 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the Bank of Dade County, 
North Dade County, Florida ("Miami Beach Bank"); and 51 per cent or 
more of the Manufacturers National Bank of Hialeah, Hialeah, Florida 
("Hialeah Bank"). 
Miami Bank, Miami Beach Bank,and Hialeah Bank, each of which 
has one office, have total deposits of $71.9 million, $27 million, and 
$10.2 million, respectively 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
w
a s given to, and views and recommendations requested of >the Commissioner 
y 
All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

438 
-2-
of Banking of the State of Florida and the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Both the Commissioner and the Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
Probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. 
In each case the Board is required 
to take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Consummation 
°f Applicant's proposal would result in Applicant's becoming the 
thirteenth largest banking organization and the ninth largest of 
12 bank holding companies in Florida; it would control about 
one per cent of the total deposits in the State. 

Applicant would be the sixth largest of the 37 banking 
organizations located in Dade County and would control 4.8 per cent 
of the total bank deposits held by banks located therein. 
Miami 
Bank, the largest of the proposed subsidiaries, is now the eighth 
largest banking organization in the area, and controls 3.2 per cent 
of the deposits in the county. 
Miami Bank is located about nine miles from Hialeah Bank, and 
14 miles from Miami Beach Bank; Miami Beach Bank is 12 miles from 
Hialeah Bank. Although each of the subject banks derives some business 
from the areas served by the other two, the location of a number of 
competing banks in the intervening areas serves to limit the extent of 
competition among them. 
In addition, Miami Bank and Miami Beach Bank 
are presently affiliated as a result of common stockholders, and it is 
contemplated that such relationship will continue, and that owners of 
the two banks will acquire a controlling interest in Hialeah Bank in 
the event that Applicant's proposal is not consummated. 
Because of the number and size of competing banking 
organizations in the areas involved, the urban distances separating 
the proposed subsidiary banks, and the present and proposed relation-
ship among the subject banks, it does not appear that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would reduce the number of meaningful alternative 
sources of banking services, or significantly affect the vigor of 
banking competition in any area. 

4 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
proposed action will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any relevant area, and will not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is in generally satisfactory financial condtion, as are 
the proposed subsidiary banks. Management direction of Miami Bank and 
Miami Beach Bank is provided by the same individuals, who will also 
constitute the principal management of Applicant. These individuals 
are regarded as capable, and their probable influence over the policies 
of Hialeah Bank is regarded as a favorable consideration with respect 
to the present application. Prospects of Applicant and the three banks 
also appear favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are consistent 
with approval of Applicant's proposal, and lend some weight toward 
approval of the application as they relate to Hialeah Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking services offered by banks located in the communities served 
by the proposed subsidiary banks appear sufficient to serve customer 
needs. Consummation of Applicant's proposal will not result in 
significant additions to the services offered by the subject banks, 

nor does it appear, particularly in the light of the present and' 
proposed relationships among the banks earlier described, that the 
quality of services offered would be measurably affected. 
i 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are consistent with approval of the application, 
but add no significant weight in support thereof. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
Febraury 3, 1969. 

442 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
O F T H E 
Item No. 2 
2/3/69 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 6, 1969 
The Honorable Wright Patntan, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am transmitting herewith a staff report on financial 
developments in the fourth quarter of 1968, in accordance with 
the arrangements previously made with your committee. It is 
important to note that some of the statistical material on 
which the analysis is based is still preliminary and subject 
to revision. 
Sincerely 
— -
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Enclosure 
