R 609 
*ev. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
3> 1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Off ice of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M . 

1679 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Sanders, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Keir, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
and Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Chief, Special Studies and Opera-
tions Section, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Examinations 

1680 
5/3/67 
-2-
This was the first meeting of the Board attended by Governor 
William W. Sherrill, who took his oath of office on Monday, May 1, 1967. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Peoples-Merchants Trust Company, 
1 
Canton, Ohio, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Jackson Township, Stark County. 
Letter to The Harter Bank & Trust Company, 
2 
Canton, Ohio, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Jackson Township, Stark County. 
Letter to The Firestone Bank, Akron, Ohio, 
3 
approving the establishment of a branch at 
1783-1791 Brittain Road. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
granting the request of Marine Midland Corpora-
tion, Buffalo, New York, for an extension of 
time within which to file its annual report to 
the Board for the year 1966, subject to certain 
conditions. 
Letter to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
5 
Association), New York, New York, granting an 
extension of time within which to establish a 
branch in Seoul, Korea. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
6 
City interposing no objection to the acquisi-
tion of real estate adjoining the Omaha Branch. 
Letter to Chairman Hill of the Senate Committee 
7 
on Labor and Public Welfare relating to S. 1103, 
a bill entitled "Pension and Employee Benefits 
Act of 1967." 

1681. 
5/3/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
8 
approving the payment of salary to Charles D. 
East as Assistant General Auditor and Robert 
E. Heck as Assistant Vice President at the 
respective rates fixed by the Bank's Board 
of Directors. 
In connection with Item No. 6, Mr. Daniels recalled that on 
February 28, 1967, the Board authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kans as City to take an option on property adjoining the Omaha Branch 
in order to fix the price on the property while making a study of the 
feasibility of using the property for a security court, parking facil-
ities, and possible additional vault space. 
Mr. Daniels also pointed out that pursuant to action taken at 
the meeting on April 26, 1967, a letter had been sent to the Presidents 
of all Federal Reserve Banks advising of a proposed System study with 
respect to such matters as vault planning, the relationship of the 
activities of the Reserve Banks to the areas served, and the size and 
scope of operations over the years ahead. Pending the outcome of the 
study, the Board proposed to defer action on proposals for new build-
ings or substantial additions to existing buildings. 
The feasibility study at Omaha, including rough schematics and 
cost estimates, had been completed and indicated that the property 
would serve the purposes desired. However, in view of the April 26 
letter to the Reserve Banks the Division of Bank Operations recommended 
that acquisition of the property be authorized with the understanding 

1682 
5/3/67 
_4-
that before going beyond the feasibility study and schematics into 
preliminary plans, the Kansas City Bank would submit the building pro-
gram and available materials for review and approval by the Board. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the April 26 letter to the 
Presidents appeared to have been well received. It seemed to him that 
individual Reserve Banks should not proceed with building programs 
until the over-all study was available. Therefore, while he would 
interpose no objection to the acquisition of the proposed Omaha prop-
erty, it should be understood that development of the site would await 
completion of the System study. 
Governor Brimmer concurred in this view. He added that in a 
recent visit to the Kansas City Bank he had received the impression 
that the Bank might want to modify its plans somewhat if certain addi-
tional land could be acquired at a future date. 
In the form in which Item No. 8 was circulated to the Board, 
it indicated that an appropriate title for Mr. Heck as an officer of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta would be determined at a later 
date. Subsequently, First Vice President Kimbrel had suggested that 
Assistant Vice President would be an appropriate title. The approved 
letter reflects Board agreement with that suggestion. 
Request of Moody Foundation. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated April 25, 1967, from the Legal Division relating to 
a request from attorneys for The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas, 

1683 
5/3/67 
-5-
for (1) a determination by the Board, on the basis of written arguments, 
that consummation of a proposed sale of its interest in W. L. Moody & 
Co., a private bank, would terminate the Foundation's bank holding com-
pany status, or (2) an opportunity to present oral argument to the 
Board in support of the Foundation's position. 
Prior to July 1, 1966, a foundation organized for charitable 
purposes, such as the Foundation, was exempt from bank holding company 
status. However, the so-called "charitable" exemption was deleted from 
the Bank Holding Company Act by the 1966 amendments. On November 2, 
1966, the Board concluded that the Foundation was a bank holding com-
pany under the Act on the basis of its direct and indirect ownership 
or control of 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of two or more 
banks and should register as a bank holding company under section 5 of 
the Act. At the same time the Board concluded that a "private" unin-
corporated bank is a "bank" within the definition of that term in sec-
tion 2(c) of the Act, and that such a private unincorporated bank 
qualifies as one of the two (or more) banks that confer bank holding 
company status upon a company under the provisions of sections 2(a)(1) 
and/or 2(a)(2) of the Act. Subsequently, two Board actions extended 
until July 1, 1967, the time within which the Foundation must register 
as a bank holding company. 
The distributed memorandum pointed out that the Foundation now 
owned 49.6 per cent of the voting shares of Moody National Bank of 

1684 
5/3/67 
-6-
Galveston, Texas, and a 50 per cent interest in a private bank, W. L. 
Moody & Co., also of Galveston, the other 50 per cent interest being 
held by Moody National as trustee under a testamentary trust. The 
Foundation proposed to terminate its holding company status by selling 
its interest in W. L. Moody & Co. to Moody National, as trustee, which 
would then be the sole owner of the private bank. In order for the 
proposed sale to terminate the holding company status of the Foundation 
it must be held that (1) the 50 per cent interest in the private bank 
held by the testamentary trustee was not held "for the benefit" of the 
Foundation, within the meaning of section 2(g)(2) of the Holding Com-
pany Act; and (2) the Foundation's sale of its 50 per cent interest in 
the private bank to a trustee would not fall within the provisions of 
section 2(g)(3) that render certain transfers of shares ineffective to 
transfer control thereof. 
The Legal Division concluded that neither the language of the 
Bank Holding Company Act nor its legislative history clearly dictated 
a decision in this matter and suggested several alternative positions 
the Board might take, including the granting of the request for oral 
argument. The Division recommended that the Board grant this request. 
After discussion based on the distributed material and supple-
mentary remarks by Mrs. Heller, it was agreed that oral argument should 
be held on a mutually convenient date before available members of the 
Board. 

±689 
5/3/67 
-7-
Secretary's Note: Arrangements subse-
quently were made for receipt of oral 
argument at 2:30 p.m. on Wednesday, 
May 31, 1967, at the Federal Reserve 
Building. 
Report on mortgage credit. There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated May 1, 1967, from Mr. Brill relating to a request from 
Chairman Sparkman of the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban Affairs of 
the Senate Banking and Currency Committee for a report by the Board on 
certain aspects of mortgage credit. The Subcommittee was conducting a 
broad-scale study of means for insuring an adequate supply of credit 
to meet future needs for home financing and avoiding a repetition of 
last year's sharp cutback in the availability of residential mortgage 
credit. The Board was asked to comment on: (1) residential mortgage 
credit as related to the activities of the Board in carrying out mone-
tary policy; (2) the effect of monetary policy on the availability and 
price of residential mortgage credit in 1966; and (3) corrective 
actions to assure a more even flow of credit to meet home financing 
needs. Attached to the memorandum was a draft report. It was under-
stood that the Board would have an opportunity to elaborate on the 
views set forth in the report at subsequent Subcommittee hearings. 
After introductory comments by Mr. Brill, Mr. Fisher reviewed 
the principal recommendations contained in the report, noting that they 
involved certain fundamental changes in existing practices. 

1686 
5/3/67 
-8-
Governor Maisel indicated that he felt the Board should take a 
hard look at a major policy question raised by the report. From a 
review of history it would appear that an expression of view that the 
burden of monetary restraint should be equalized by shifting the burden 
more from the housing area to other sectors of the economy was quite a 
radical one. 
Moving on to specifics, Governor Maisel raised the question 
whether the Board really wanted to advocate that thrift institutions 
have a better balance of assets, as suggested by the recommendation 
that investment options available to nonbank depositary institutions 
specializing in mortgage lending be increased. It seemed to him that 
such a shift would defeat part of the theory underlying the operations 
of thrift institutions. If such institutions went into consumer loans, 
for example, they would be less likely to have money for mortgage lend-
ing in critical times. 
There ensued a discussion of this point during which Governor 
Brimmer observed that the mutual savings banks, with more diversified 
portfolios, seemed to have done better last year than the savings and 
loans. He argued that a broadening of investment powers for the latter 
should help to even out the impact of monetary ease and, in turn, mone-
tary restraint. 
Governor Maisel said it was his theory that it would be better 
if the savings and loans remained basically thrift institutions. Other-
wise, they were likely, over a period of time, to get into the same 

1.687 
5/3/67 
-9-
situation as the commercial banks. He saw no reason to think that they 
would shift away from consumer loans to mortgages in periods of mone-
tary restraint. 
Mr. Keir commented that if the savings and loans had had other 
options in periods when they were putting too many funds into mort-
gages, there might not have been so great a quality problem. Also, if 
they had held some shorter-maturity assets, they would have been in a 
better position to compete for savings when rates were rising generally. 
Governor Maisel agreed that those were two sound arguments. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that a broadening of invest-
ment powers would enhance the viability of the savings and loans. He 
found implicit in Governor Maisel's reasoning the theory that special-
ized pools of funds were desirable, and this was an argument with which 
he did not agree. 
Governor Maisel noted that the savings and loans, which had 
been set up as specialized institutions, enjoyed major tax and other 
benefits. However, the issue was admittedly a difficult one, and he 
found the points made by Mr. Keir rather persuasive. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the opinion that the savings and 
loans would not be likely to obtain a significant amount of consumer 
credit business, since that was more likely to flow into the banking 
area. Governor Brimmer noted that the thrift institutions might extend 
their operations to such fields as the financing of durables, and 
o 

1688 
5/3/67 
-10-
Governor Maisel pointed out that in New England the savings banks 
already possessed quite a range of lending powers. 
Governor Mitchell said that he had some sympathy with Governor 
Maisel's basic position. It would be a major move to recommend that 
the thrift institutions be permitted to become general purpose lending 
institutions. While he would have no objection to saying that the 
possibilities could be studied, his present inclination was to feel 
that more might be accomplished on the liability than the asset side. 
Governor Brimmer replied that he would not want to espouse 
flexibility on the liability side without flexibility on the asset 
side, for with the latter the thrift institutions should be able to 
adj ust their income stream more readily than at present. 
Governor Mitchell then suggested that in any event the report 
should be set up not in terms of recommendations but in terms of points 
that might warrant study and consideration. There was general agree-
ment on that score. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out, in this connection, that the 
Board had not endorsed unreservedly the proposed legislation that would 
authorize Federal charters for mutual savings banks. While he would 
personally have gone further in supporting that proposal, in the circum-
stances he doubted that the positive recommendation in the draft report 
was in order. 
Proceeding to his next question, Governor Maisel inquired why 
it should be recommended in the report that the Federal Home Loan Banks 

±689 
5/3/67 
-11-
have greater direct access to Treasury financing. He suggested that 
that particular recommendation be omitted, although it seemed appro-
priate to recommend that the statutory and financial capacity of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank System to assist its members be increased. 
Governor Maisel then referred to a suggestion in the draft 
report that the Federal Housing Administration and Veterans Administra-
tion be encouraged to develop a method of grading their underwritten 
loans in some standardized fashion that would provide a quality rating 
for each mortgage at the time of origination. He agreed that the prob-
lem of standardizing mortgages was important. However, he would take 
the view that FHA and VA mortgages should have the full value of the 
Government guarantee and that they should not be assigned several 
different values. 
Mr. Fisher noted that the report contained another suggestion 
to the effect that a mechanism be provided whereby some residential 
mortgages could be sold with a complete guarantee of payment so that a 
buyer could acquire a Federally underwritten or conventional mortgage 
with greater assurance of its marketability. 
After some further discussion of this point, Governor Maisel 
repeated that he would consider it more logical to suggest a study of 
why all FHA and VA mortgages should not carry the full value of the 
guarantee than to suggest a quality rating of such mortgages. Governor 
Brimmer agreed, saying that he would be reluctant to have the Govern-
ment get into the business of rating mortgages, bonds, or anything else. 

1690 
5/3/67 
-12-
Chairman Martin then suggested that the staff recast the draft 
report, for further Board consideration, in the light of the comments 
that had been made, bearing in mind particularly the major policy ques-
tion that had been pointed up by Governor Maisel. 
In further discussion, Governor Brimmer noted that this would be 
the fi rst time the Board had stated publicly that last year's temporary 
authorization for emergency credit facilities to nonmember depositary-
type institutions had terminated. He suggested the inclusion of an 
expression reflecting willingness to reconstitute the program if that 
seemed desirable, and other Board members agreed. 
Governor Brimmer also indicated that he had some technical 
questions concerning the description in the draft report of events last 
year, and he suggested that the report be checked against what he 
regarded as the more balanced account in the Board's Annual Report. 
It was agreed that that would be done. 
Governor Brimmer then referred to certain suggested changes in 
the language of the draft report bearing on the policy question raised 
by Governor Maisel, and it was understood that those suggestions would 
be taken into account by the staff in the process of redrafting. 
Accordingly, the report was referred back to the staff with 
the understanding that a revised draft would be made available for the 
Board's consideration on Friday, May 5. 
Gold cover against Federal Reserve notes. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated May 1, 1967, from the Legal Division 

1691 
5/3/67 
-13-
relating to requests from the Chairmen of the Senate and House Banking 
and Currency Committees for reports on S. 1307 and H.R. 6428, respec-
tively. These identical bills would eliminate the requirement that 
the Federal Reserve Banks maintain gold certificate reserves against 
Federal Reserve notes in circulation. They would also repeal provi-
sions of law relating to maintenance of a gold redemption fund with 
respect to Federal Reserve notes. 
It was recommended, for reasons discussed in the memorandum, 
that the Board support the bills. A change in the gold reserve 
requirement within a relatively short time was inevitable, and one 
action making the entire amount of gold presently required for reserve 
purposes available to defend the dollar abroad seemed psychologically 
preferable to making the supply available piecemeal. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Chair-
man of the House Committee on Banking and Currency. The letter would 
point out that continued growth in the volume of Federal Reserve notes 
in circulation would necessitate a change in the gold certificate 
reserve requirement in the near future, that enactment of H.R. 6428 
would free the U.S. gold stock for use as an international monetary 
reserve -- the principal function performed by gold today -- and that 
such action, in conjunction with continued strong efforts to achieve 
a sustainable equilibrium in U.S. international transactions, would 
strengthen the international position of the dollar. The draft would 

1G92 
5/3/67 
-14-
conclude with a statement that the Board favored enactment of H.R. 6428. 
A similar letter would be sent to the Chairman of the Senate Committee. 
In discussion Chairman Martin noted that the "free" gold 
figu res shown in statements issued by the Federal Reserve and the Trea-
sury appeared to vary somewhat. After some of the technical reasons 
had been explained by Mr. Gemmill, the Chairman suggested that steps 
be taken to insure that the respective methods of calculation were 
clearly understood both here and at the Treasury. 
Governor Maisel raised the question whether consideration 
should be given to making the Board's position known publicly on this 
important issue, perhaps in the form of a joint statement with the 
Treasury. In any event, he felt that the Board should consider what 
it would be prepared to say when its letter was released by the Con-
gressional Committees. 
Mr. Solomon expressed his understanding that the Treasury was 
.'..v. 
v... 
. 
i' 
•• 
. 
. " 
planning to emphasize in its report to the Congressional Committees 
the need for the legislation in view of the prospective increase in 
the volume of notes in circulation. Thus, while he would not suggest 
a change in the Board letter, it appeared that there might be some 
difference in the manner in which the subject was proposed to be 
treated in the Treasury and Board reports. 
Chairman Martin then remarked that the Board's letter should 
not be sent until after there had been sufficient clearance with the 

1693 
5/3/67 
-15-
Treasury. What he had had in mind today was a preliminary discussion 
of the subject to try to establish a Board position. In his view the 
proposed letter stated the matter quite well. 
Other members of the Board also expressed the view that the 
position stated was appropriate, following which the Chairman said 
that it would be understood, then, that the Board agreed in general on 
the proposed letter. He suggested that the letter be sent at an early 
opportunity but not until the Treasury had been made aware of what the 
Board had in mind, and no disagreement with such a procedure was indi-
cated . 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Letters were sent on 
May 2, 1967, to First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish an 
additional branch in Paris, France, to 
be located at 25 Rue Vital, and an addi-
tional branch in Trinidad and Tobago, to 
be located in San Fernando. It was noted 
that the expenditures required to estab-
lish the respective branches would be 
provided from funds available in France 
and Trinidad. 
A. 
f 
On May 2, 1967, Governor Robertson approved 
on behalf of the Board the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (copy attached as 
Item No. 9^ approving the appointment of John W. Lanza as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas (copy attached as 
Item No. IQ't approving the appointment of Daniel E. Morton as assistant 
examiner. 

1894 
5/3/67 
-16-
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics recommend-
ing the appointment of Richard Ristow as Summer Research Assistant in 
that Division, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,867, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy 
attached as Item No. 11) approving the 
appointment of Joseph F. Morrissette 
as assistant examiner. 
r " 
^•'•••»'.".Si!.:! vv;-
' h - 
V . 
.'} 
r.:: 
i vi;-

1695 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Peoples-Merchants Trust Company, 
Canton, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Peoples-
Merchants Trust Company, Canton, Ohio, of a branch on 
the north side of Everhard Road, approximately one-half 
mile west of the intersection of Whipple and Everhard 
Roads, Jackson Township, Stark County, Ohio, provided 
the branch is established within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1696 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
D F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
5/3/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
o r r i c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Harter Bank & 
Trust Company, 
Canton, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Harter Bank & 
Trust Company, Canton, Ohio, of a branch at 4495 Everhard 
Road, N.W., Jackson Township, Stark County, Ohio, 
provided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1697 
BOARD DP GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
F V 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/3/67 
:MTres*V 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Firestone Bank, 
Akron, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The Firestone Bank, 
Akron, Ohio, of a branch at 1783-1791 Brittain Road, 
Akron, Ohio, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1698 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No. 4 
OF THE 
5/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C • R R CS PO N DC N C C 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967. 
Mr. James H. Oltman, Manager, 
Bank Examination Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Oltman: 
Please advise Marine Midland Corporation, Buffalo, 
New York, that the Board has granted its request for an exten-
sion of 60 days to June 29, 1967, for the filing of its Annual 
Report to. the Board for the year 1966. However, in order that 
there not be an undue delay in the Board's publishing in the 
Federal Reserve Bulletin the list of registered bank holding 
companies as of year end 1966 (together with supplemental 
statistics showing subsidiary banks) Marine Midland Corporation 
should be directed to furnish the Board within 15 days a list 
of its subsidiary banks, showing as to each the number of 
shares owned and outstanding as of year end 1966 and a copy 
of its Annual Report to shareholders for the year 1966. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

±699 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
• 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
5/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967. 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
! -V v s" f 
' 
• 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of April 20, 1967, 
the Board of Governors extends to December 1, 1967, the 
time within which your bank may establish a branch in 
Seoul, Korea, as authorized by the Board's letter of 
December 17, 1965. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1700 
BDARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
5/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967 
Mr. George H. Clay, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198. 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
This refers to your letter of April 18, 1967, concerning 
the purchase of a site for the construction of an addition to the 
Omaha Branch building. 
The Board will interpose no objection to the acquisition 
of the proposed property and authorizes its purchase at a price 
of $175,000 plus closing costs of $11,170, as stated in your 
letter. 
It is understood by the Board that, before going beyond 
the feasibility study and schematics into the preliminary plans, 
the Bank will submit the building program and available materials 
for the usual Board review and approval. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1701 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
5/3/67 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 4, 1967 
Mr. Lister Hill, Chairman, 
Committee on Labor and Public Welfare, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to the request contained in your letter of 
March 2, 1967, for a report on a bill (S.1103), introduced by 
Senator Javits, entitled "Pension and Employee Benefits Act of 
1967". 
As you know, the basic pension fund questions on which 
the Javits bill (S.1103) proposes a course of action are presently 
being studied by the Interagency Task Force on Private Pension Plans. 
Staff of the Board's Research Division have participated in the 
background studies undertaken to develop policy proposals for this 
Task Force, and the Chairman of the Board is a member of the inter-
agency committee of principals which will ultimately review and act 
on these recommendations. While substantial progress has been made 
by the Task Force on the questions of vesting, funding, and rein-
surance, policy recommendations have not yet been finalized. Until 
the Task Force has finished this work, it would therefore be premature 
for the Board to state a separate position in commenting on the Javits 
proposals. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
• • -J < ' \ . 
V* U W. R" - 
'• * 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

1702 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 8 
5/3/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
Ml 
RE-> . 
May 3, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Harold T. Patterson, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Patterson: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. Charles D. East as Assistant General Auditor of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta at the rate of $12,000 annually for the 
period May 1 through December 31, 1967. 
The Board also approves the payment of salary to 
Mr. Robert E. Heck as an Assistant Vice President at the rate of 
$14,000 annually for the same period. This title was designated 
by First Vice President Kimbrel of your Bank when he was at the 
Board on May 2. 
The rates approved are those fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of April 18. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

17(13 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
5/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 . 
I'IVS 
, " 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 28, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of John W. Lanza as an assistant examiner 
f<Mf, theF^dierjll Reserve Bank of New York. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
.:. 
L, 
ti • , • 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1704 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
5/3/67 
A D D R E S S 
A R R I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1967 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 26, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Daniel E. Morton as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1705 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 11 
• F THE 
5/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 3, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request con-
tained in your letter of May 1, 1967, the Board 
approves the appointment of Joseph F. Morrissette 
as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
• (Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
