MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 30, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, November 30, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby and Miss Ryon of the Office of the 
Secretary 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
After a discussion based on the review during which Board members 
requested that the staff prepare additional information on various aspects 
of the economic and financial situation, Mr. Cardon reviewed the status 
of pertinent legislation pending before the Congress. 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3310 
11/30/70 
-2-
Staff members who had been present for the purpose of the 
weekly review left the room at this point. Other staff members, 
including Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel, entered to participate 
in the consideration of additional items listed on the agenda. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed consolidation 
of The Torrington Savings Bank, Torrington, Connecticut, with Falls 
Village Savings Bank, Falls Village, Connecticut. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
The proposed consolidation of Torrington Savings Bank 
and Falls Village Savings Bank would eliminate existing as 
well as potential for greater competition between them. 
Also, the proposal would enhance the competitive position 
of the largest thrift institution serving the market. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would 
be adverse. 
Barnett Banks of Florida. The Board approved unanimously an 
application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, 
to acquire shares of The Brickell Bank, Miami, Florida, and authorized 
the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Staff appointment. The Board approved the appointment of John S. 
Rippey as Special Assistant to the Board, with annual salary at the rate 
of $23,900, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 

334:1 
11/30/70 
-3-
Discount rate; Euro-dollars. 
Chairman Burns began further 
discussion of actions that might be taken with regard to the discount 
rate and the repayment of Euro-dollar liabilities by U.S. banks by 
commenting that the domestic economy was weak and that clearly the Euro-
dollar problem was not becoming easier. There were some complex moves 
under consideration by the Board to deal with the Euro-dollar problem, 
but they were not yet in such form that the Board was in a position to 
reach a decision on them. They would require further study and some 
essential consultation with others. In his opinion, action should be 
taken on the discount rate. Such action would be appropriate in view 
of what had happened in the economy, the level of short-term market 
rates generally, and what the System was trying to achieve in the area 
of interest rates for domestic economic reasons. The only question 
appeared to be on the international side. 
With regard to the Euro-dollar problem, the Chairman noted that 
Governor Robertson had made a useful suggestion. Action such as Governor 
Robertson had proposed could be announced simultaneously with action on 
the discount rate. In his (the Chairman's) opinion, those two moves 
ought to be coupled. 
If the Board acted on the discount rate, it also 
would want to convey to the market and to the international community 
the fact that it was mindful of international factors. 
In addition, as 
the Division of International Finance had pointed out in a memorandum 
of November 28, there were some supplementary steps that the Board 

11/30/70 
-4-
could take that would be in harmony with Governor Robertson's proposal. 
From previous discussion the Chairman believed that the Board's thinking 
on the discount rate was reasonably clear. He therefore proposed that 
the Board turn at this point to consideration of Governor Robertson's 
proposal and the supplementary steps mentioned by the staff. 
At the Chairman's request, Mr. Solomon reviewed the actions that 
it had been suggested might be taken in the Euro-dollar area, in company 
with a change in the discount rate. First, there was Governor Robertson's 
proposal to increase from 10 per cent to 17-1/2 per cent the reserve 
required to be maintained by member banks against Euro-dollar borrowings 
that exceeded the amounts that the banks were allowed as a reserve-free 
base. The purpose would be to bring home more forcefully to the banks 
that their reserve-free base might be of greater value to them in the 
future than they had realized. 
Second, the Board could amend its regula-
tions to discourage repayment of Euro-dollar liabilities not only by banks 
that used an historically-determined reserve-free base but also by those 
banks that operated under a minimum base equal to 3 per cent of their 
overall deposits subject to reserve requirements. The amendment would 
apply the automatic downward adjustment factor to reserve-free bases of 
the latter kind as well as the former. The thought would be to publish 
the amendment in the Federal Register for comment rather than to take 
final action. That should have a sufficient announcement effect to 
serve present purposes and would be in line with the practice generally 
followed in amending Board regulations. 

33 
11/30/70 
-5-
There followed a discussion as to whether or not it would be 
advisable to publish for comment, and it was suggested that an alter-
native would be to take action now with a deferral of the effective 
date for about 30 days. During the discussion the Chairman observed 
that the major objective was to convey to the banks a determination on 
the part of the Board not to sit by idly when Euro-dollars were continu-
ing to flow out in heavy volume. That objective would in his opinion 
be served best by taking action at this time and announcing it along 
with a reduction in the discount rate, rather than to issue a proposal 
for comment and indicate a sense of leisure. 
Comment was made that if the action was announced a number of 
banks probably would want to borrow Euro-dollars to increase their base 
before the effective date of the action. That would be desirable, but 
it would be unwise to force them into the market at this time of heavy 
seasonal pressure on Euro-dollar rates. This consideration suggested 
an effective date some time in January. 
After further discussion of that point, Governor Daane said 
that he was sympathetic to moving on the discount rate and that he 
would like to take some action on the Euro-dollar side that would have 
real teeth in it. He then outlined reasons why he felt that the 
Robertson proposal might not be effective and might subject the Board 
to criticism that it did not really understand the problem. 

3344 
11/30/70 
-6-
In reply, Chairman Burns pointed out that the Board, in 
announcing adoption of the Robertson proposal, could not only express 
its concern about the Euro-dollar problem but make clear its intent to 
take such further actions as might become necessary. 
He also pointed 
out that one should not overlook the moral suasion that was implicit in 
Governor Robertson's proposal. 
Discussion followed with regard to the date on which the proposed 
increase in marginal reserve requirements should be made effective in 
order to obtain the optimum results, in light of market conditions and 
other factors, and a suggestion eventually was made that it might become 
effective with the reserve computation period ending January 20, 1971. 
In reply to a request for a further statement of the objectives 
being sought, Chairman Burns said that essentially the Board was trying 
to moderate the repayment of Euro-dollar borrowings. Admittedly, it 
would be adopting a measure that was mild and was not likely to be 
extremely effective. 
But in so doing it would indicate its concern 
and could express its intention to take additional steps as necessary. 
Governor Daane said it was only on that line of reasoning that 
he would be willing to accept what in his opinion was an ineffective 
proposal. 
The Chairman added that he had discussed the proposal now under 
consideration with Under Secretary of the Treasury Volcker, who had at 
first expressed doubts but had later commented, after the reasons were 
spelled out, that there seemed to be strong arguments in its favor. 

3345 
11/30/70 
-7-
In response to further questions regarding the objectives and 
the desirability of such action, the Chairman again summarized by saying 
that the Board was not yet ready to move on other proposals to deal with 
the Euro-dollar problem because it was not sure enough of them and it had 
to be reasonably certain of what it was doing. Not until after full study 
would he want to impose new regulations and penalties on the banks, 
especially when other parts of the Government might be considering moves 
in another direction for business firms such as a liberalization of the 
foreign direct investment program. 
Certain possible variations on the action presently under con-
sideration were then advanced and discussed. 
It was agreed that some 
of them seemed to warrant consideration as actions that might be taken 
later. 
The Chairman turned at this point to the question of the discount 
rate and asked for a report on the actions taken by the directors of some 
of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Holland stated that the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas had acted 
to establish, subject to review and determination by the Board of 
Governors, a rate of 5-1/2 per cent (rather than 5-3/4 per cent) on 
advances to and discounts for member banks under section 13 and 13a of 
the Federal Reserve Act and a rate of 6 per cent (rather than 6-1/4 per 
cent) on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act. 
The 

3346 
11/30/70 
-8-
directors of four of those Banks had established a rate of 7 per cent on 
advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act, while 
the directors of the Atlanta Bank had retained a rate of 7-1/2 per cent. 
Mr 0 Holland further reported that it was understood that at 
least some of the directors of other Reserve Banks were inclined not 
to move on the discount rate at this time. 
There followed a staff report on money market developments today 
from which it appeared that there had been some tendency for money market 
rates to back up a little. This was judged to argue in favor of early 
action on the discount rate. 
The Chairman then asked for a report on the views of the 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and Mr. Holland said 
that Mr. Hayes, in a telephone conversation, had presented several argu-
ments against moving today on the discount rate. First, Mr. Hayes thought 
it would be desirable from the standpoint of his directors to wait until 
Thursday, when a meeting of the executive committee was scheduled. 
Mr. Hayes suggested that the directors could come to feel that they 
were only rubber stamps. 
On this point the Chairman commented that a practice of effecting 
smaller and more frequent changes in the discount rate would require 
leadership on the part of the Reserve Bank Presidents. At recent meet-
ings of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Presidents had been 

3347 
11/30/70 
-9-
urged to promote discussion of the discount rate regularly at meetings 
of their boards of directors. As a result, directors of some of the 
Banks apparently were coming to feel that they were playing a larger 
role in the determination of System policy. However, at the meeting 
of the New York directors that he had attended on November 19 the ques-
tion of the discount rate had not been discussed to any extent, although 
there had been a number of gloomy reports from directors on the state 
of the economy or the state of business. The practice of generating 
active discount rate discussions by directors at all of the Banks was 
one that should be discussed with the Chairmen of the Federal Reserve 
Banks at the time of their forthcoming conference. 
Mr. Holland stated that other reasons advanced by President 
Hayes against action on the discount rate today were that the interval 
since the last discount rate change had been on the short side, that it 
would be desirable to wait and review the situation generally at the 
December meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, that a discount 
rate reduction might nudge market rates lower again, which Mr. Hayes 
did not think would be desirable in the present environment with so 
much concern evident about the repayment of Euro-dollar borrowings, and 
that there had already been quite large domestic interest rate movements. 
The arguments presented by Mr. Hayes were discussed but were not 
regarded as persuasive reasons for deferring action on the discount rate. 

3318 
11/30/70 
-10-
The Chairman then called for a vote on the discount rate proposals 
that were before the Board, on the assumption that the Board would also 
take some action today with respect to the Euro-dollar problem. 
The Board approved unanimously, effective December 1, 1970, the 
rates that had been established by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas. 
In addi-
tion, the Board authorized the Secretary to advise other Reserve Banks 
whose directors subsequently established such rates of the approval 
thereof by the Board. 
(Note: 
Pursuant to this authorization, the following Banks were 
advised of approval of such rates, effective the dates indicated: 
New 
York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco, effective December 4, 1970; 
Kansas City, effective December 10, 1970; and Richmond, Chicago, and 
St. Louis, effective December 11, 1970. The rates established on advances 
under the last paragraph of section 13 were as follows: 
7-1/2 per cent 
by New York and Chicago; 7-1/4 per cent by Richmond; and 7 per cent by 
the other four Banks.) 
The Chairman then turned to further consideration of the Euro-
dollar problem and suggested that the Board focus on the Robertson 
proposal in its original form. 
Governor Daane said that he had grave reservations about taking 
such action today. While he would not vote against it, he thought there 
was a real risk of adverse reaction unless the Board was successful in 

3349 
11/30/70 
-11-
conveying a psychological message. In reply to a question from the 
Chairman whether it would be better to do nothing, Governor Daane said 
that it would not. That was the only reason, he added, that he would 
go along with the action. 
The Chairman then said that as he understood it the Board was 
generally agreeable to acting today on the Robertson proposal. 
The Chairman next turned to the comment in the November 28 
memorandum from the Division of International Finance that a few banks 
currently had borrowings above their reserve-free bases (in the aggre-
gate amount of $400 million) and that adoption of the Robertson proposal 
would accelerate repayment of those borrowings unless the regulations 
were changed to apply the reserve requirement to borrowings above the 
present level or the reserve-free base, whichever was higher. 
After some discussion of this problem, it was suggested that 
in order to assure that the higher marginal reserve requirement did 
not penalize banks that had Euro-dollar liabilities above their reserve-
free bases, the Board could make the marginal reserve requirement 
applicable to borrowings above either (1) the minimum base equal to a 
percentage of deposits, or (2) the average level in the reserve computa-
tion period ended November 25, 1970, whichever was higher. There was 
general acceptance of this suggestion. 
The Board then turned to the proposal that it amend its regulations 
to discourage repayment of Euro-dollar liabilities not only by banks that 

3350 
11/30/70 
-12-
used an historically-determined reserve-free base originally related 
to their May 1969 borrowings but also by those banks that operated 
under a minimum base equal to 3 per cent of their overall deposits 
subject to reserve requirements. 
Such an amendment would apply the 
automatic downward adjustment factor to reserve-free bases of the 
latter kind as well as the former. 
There was general agreement that such an amendment should be 
adopted, to become effective with the reserve computation period ending 
January 20, 1971. 
In further discussion, a suggestion was made that the Robertson 
proposal be modified to raise the marginal reserve requirement to 20 
per cent rather than to 17-1/2 per cent, and there was agreement with 
that suggestion. There was also agreement that the Robertson proposal, 
so modified, should be adopted effective January 7, 1971. 
The Robertson proposal and the two satellite proposals were 
then adopted by unanimous vote, with effective dates as agreed upon 
during the discussion. 
Attention was then directed to a draft of press release that 
might be issued this afternoon relating not only to the discount rate 
action but the Euro-dollar actions, and a number of suggestions were 
made. 
It was understood that the press release would be revised in the 
light of those suggestions, that appropriate regulatory amendments 
implementing the Euro-dollar actions would be prepared, and that the 

3351 
11/30/70 
-13-
revised draft of press release and the accompanying regulatory materials 
would be made available to the Board members for review. Then, if 
members of the Board should so desire, the Board could meet again this 
afternoon to resolve any questions concerning the documents. 
Otherwise, 
the press statement would be released after the close of the market 
this afternoon. 
(Note: 
There developed to be no need for another 
Board meeting on the matter.) 
Attached under Item No. 2 are copies of the press release that 
was issued pursuant to the Board's authorization and of the regulatory 
amendments in the form in which they were published in the Federal 
Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3352 
Item No. 1 
11/30/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC., 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Brickell Bank, Miami, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Brickell Bank, Miami, Florida 
("Brickell Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Florida, and requested his views and recommen-
dation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

3353 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 22, 1970 (35 Federal Register 16191), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. 
The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls 23 banks which hold deposits of 
$622 million, representing 5.1 per cent of total deposits held by Florida's 
commercial banks, and is the State's third largest banking organization. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date, except 
Applicant's proposed acquisition of Bank of Osceola, Kissircmee, Florida 
(56 Federal Reserve Bulletin 361), which has been abandoned.) 
Appli-
cant's acquisition of Brickell Bank ($4 million deposits) would have no 
significant effect on concentration of banking resources. 
Brickell Bank, located in the City of Miami, Dade County, 
Florida, serves the coastal area around Brickell Avenue, and the adjacent 
residential area. Although Brickell Bank is the only bank located in 

-2-
3354 
the area it serves, there are eight larger banks competing therein, which 
control over 99 per cent of the area's total deposits. 
Brickell Bank 
is the 65th largest of the 69 banks operating in the county, 22 of 
which are situated within five miles of Brickell Bank. 
Applicant's 
closest subsidiary bank to Brickell Bank is located 167 miles north-
west of Miami. None of Applicant's present subsidiaries competes with 
Brickell Bank because of the distances involved and the presence of 
other banks in the intervening areas. Consummation of the proposed acqui-
sition would eliminate no existing competition, and it does not appear 
that it would foreclose potential competition, or have adverse effects 
on any of the competing banks, all of which are many times larger than 
Brickell Bank. 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition in any 
relevant area, and would have a pro-competitive effect in the Miami area. 
The banking factors, as applied to the record before the Board, and as 
they pertain to Applicant, its subsidiaries and Brickell Bank are regarded 
as consistent with approval of the application. Although it appears that 
the banking needs of the area served by Brickell Bank are being adequately 
served, Applicant proposes to institute improved and more aggressive 
banking policies at Brickell Bank. 
It is the Board's judgment that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be approved. 

3355 
-2-
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
time be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 30, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

T 
* 
.fti-.Jir 
ic ID 
A 
S. 
® 
V// j*-. 
J 
tH. ^
\ 
'J 
'i 
- m e m - ' 
Item No. 2 
11/30/70 
For immediate release. 
November 30, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a further reduction in Federal Reserve Bank discount 
rates to 5-1/2 per cent. 
r 
At the same time, the Board announced steps to strengthen 
the inducement for American banks to retain their Eurodollar liabili-
ties and thus moderate the pace of repayments of Eurodollar borrowings. 
The reduction in the discount rate was accomplished as the 
Board approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston, Cleveland, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and Dallas reducing the 
discount rate at those banks from 5-3/4 to 5-1/2 per cent, effective 
Tuesday. December 1. The move was in recognition of the further 
downward trend in short-term interest rates in recent weeks. 
The 
discount rate had been reduced from 6 to 5-3/4 per cent effective 
November 11. 
Three inter-related decisions were made by the Board regard-
ing bank borrowings of Eurodollars. 
First, the Board raised from 10 to 20 per cent the reserves 
required from member banks against Eurodollar borrowings that exceed 
amounts that the banks are allowed as a reserve-free base. 
The 
higher requirement is intended to give banks an added inducement to 
preserve their reserve-free bases presently at substantial levels 
against a time of future need, instead of allowing their bases to be 

3357 
-2-
lowered automatically by repaying their Eurodollar borrowings. 
The 
higher requirement becomes effective in the current four-week reserve 
computation period ending December 23. 
In a second step, to assure that the higher marginal reserve 
requirement does not penalize banks that currently have Eurodollar 
liabilities above their reserve-free bases, the Board also amended 
its regulations so as to make the marginal reserve requirement applicable 
to borrowings above either (1) the minimum base equal to a percentage oi 
deposits, or (2) the average level in the reserve computation period 
ended November 25, whichever is higher. 
Third, the Board amended its regulations to discourage repay-
ment of Eurodollar liabilities, not only by banks that use an 
historically determined reserve-free base originally related to their 
May 1969 borrowings, but also by those banks that operate under a 
minimum base equal to 3 per ccnt of their overall deposits subject to 
reserve requirements. The amendment will apply the automatic downward 
adjustment to reserve-free bases of the. latter kind as well as of the 
former. This amendment becomes effective with the reserve computation 
period ending January 20, 1971. 
Although the steps announced today were deliberately made 
of modest scale, the Board has under 
review other measures that might 
be adopted for the purpose of ten.pnJnfi the repayment of Eurodollars 
while avoiding penalty to banks that operate so as to retain their 
reserve-free bases. 
Attached is a copy of regulatory amendments implementing the 
decisions made today. 
-0-

3358 
TITLE 1 2 — B A N K S AND BANKING 
CHAPTER I I — F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 2 0 4 — R E S E R V E S OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 2 1 3 — F O R E I G N ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
[Reg. D, MJ 
Reserves Against Eurodollar Borrowings 
1. Effective January 7, 1971, § 204.5(c) is amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 204.5 
Reserve requirements. 
* 
* 
it 
(
c
) Reserve percentages against certain deposits by foreign 
banking offices. 
Deposits represented by promissory notes, acknowledg-
ments of advance, due bills, or similar obligations described in 
8/ 
§ 204.1(f) to foreign offices of other banks," 
or institutions the 
time deposits of which are exempt from the rate limitations of Regula-
tion Q pursuant to § 217.3(g) thereof, shall not be subject to para-
graph (a) of this section or to § 204.3(a)(1) and (2); but during each 
week of the four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, and during 
cach week of each successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a 
member bank shall maintain with the Reserve Bank of its district a 
daily average balance equal to 20 per cent of the amount by which 
the daily average amount of such deposits during the four-week 
8/ Any banking office located outside the States of the United States 
"and the District of Columbia of a bank organized under domestic or 
foreign lav;. 

3359 
-2-
(
M
co[r.putation"X period ending on the Wednesday fifteen days before 
the beginning of the maintenance period exceeds the lesser of (i) 3 per 
cent of such member bank's daily average deposits subject to paragraph 
\ 
(a) of this section during the current computation period or during 
the computation period ending November 25, 1970, whichever is greater, 
or (ii) the lowest corresponding daily average total for any computation 
period beginning on or after December 24, 1970. An excess or deficiency 
in reserves in any week of a maintenance period under this paragraph 
shall be subject to § 204.3(a)(3), as if computed under § 204.3(a)(2), 
9/ 
and deficiencies under this paragraph shall be subject to 5 204.3(b). 
2. Effective January 7, 1971, § 213.7 is amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 213.7 
Reserves against foreign branch deposits. 
(a) Transactions with parent bank. 
During each week of 
the four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, and during each 
week of each successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member 
bank having one or more foreign branches shall maintain with the 
Reserve Bank of its district, as a reserve against its foreign branch 
deposits, a daily average balance equal to 20 per cent of the amount 
by which the daily average total of 
(1) net balances due from its domestic offices to such 
branches, a nd 
9/ The term "computation period" in § 204.3(g)(3) and (b) shall, 
for this purpose, be deemed to refer to each week of a maintenance 
period under this paragraph. 

3360 
-2-
(2) assets (including participations) held by such branches 
7/ 
which were acquired from its domestic offices, 
during the four-week ("computation") period ending on the Wednesday 
fifteen days before the beginning of the maintenance period, exceeds 
the greater of 
8/ 
(i) the corresponding daily average total 
for the compu-
r 
tation period ending November 25, 1970, or the lowest corresponding 
daily average total for any computation period beginning after that 
date, whichever amount is the lesser, or 
(ii) 3 per cent of the member bank's daily average deposits 
subject to § 204.5(a) of this chapter (Regulation D) during the 
current computation period, or, if the bank has had a foreign branch 
in operation for more than SO days, the lowest corresponding daily 
average total for any computation period beginning on or after 
December 24, 1970, whichever amount is the lesser: 
Provided, That the applicable base computed under (i) or (ii) shall 
be reduced by the daily average amount of any deposits of the member 
bank subject to § 204.5(c) of this chapter (Regulation D) during the 
computation period. 
(b) Credit extended to_ United States residents, 
During 
each week of the four-week period beginning October 16, 1969, and 
l) Excluding (1) assets so held on June 26, 1969, representing crcdit 
extended to persons not residents of the United States and (2) credit 
extended or renewed by a domestic office after June 26, 1969, to 
persons not residents of the United States to the extent such credit 
was not extended in order to replace credit outstanding on that 
date which was paid prior to its original maturity (see definition 
of United States resident in footnote 9). 
8/ Excluding assets representing credit extended to persons not 
residents of the United States. 
L 

-2-
during each week of each successive four-week maintenance period, 
a member bank having one or more foreign branches shall maintain 
with the Reserve Bank of its district, as a reserve against its 
foreign branch deposits, a daily average balance equal to 20 per 
cent of the amount by which daily average credit outstanding from 
I t 
such branches to United States residents 
(other than assets 
acquired and net balances due from its domestic offices), during 
the four-week computation period ending on Wednesday fifteen days 
before the beginning of the maintenance period, exceeds the corre-
sponding daily average total during the four-week period ending on 
November 25, 1970: 
Provided, That this paragraph docs not apply to 
credit extended (1) by a foreign branch which at no time during 
the computation period had credit outstanding to United States 
residents exceeding $5 million, (2) to enable the borrower to comply 
with requirements of the Office of Foreign Direct Investments, 
10/ 
Department of Commerce, 
or (3) under binding corrmitments entered 
into before December 1, 1970. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
9/ (a) Any individual residing (at the time the credit is extended) in 
any State of the United States or the District of Columbia; (b) any 
corporation, partnership, association or other entity organized therein 
("domestic corporation"); and (c) any branch or office located therein 
of any other entity wherever organized. 
Credit extended to a foreign 
branch, office, subsidiary, affiliate or other foreign establishment 
("foreign affiliate") controlled by one or more such domestic corpora-
tions will not be deemed to be credit extended to a United States 
resident if the proceeds will be used in its foreign business or that 
of other foreign affiliates of the controlling domestic corporation(s). 
10/ The branch may in good faith rely on the borrower's certification 
that the funds will be so used. 

336J2 
-2-
3a. These amendments are issued pursuant to the authority 
granted to the Board of Governors by section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act to set reserve ratios (12 U.S.C. 461) and by sections 25 and 9 
of that Act to regulate foreign branches of member banks (12 U.S.C. 
601 and 321). The principal change is to raise from 10 to 20 per 
cent the reserve ratio applicable to a member bank's Eurodollar 
borrowings to the extent they exceed a specified reserve-free base. 
This change becomes effective as to maintenance periods beginning 
January 7, 19 71, as to reserve computation periods ending December 23, 
1970. To prevent the higher marginal reserve requirement from having 
the effcct of penalizing banks that during the computation period 
ending November 25, 1970, had Eurodollar borrowings above their 
reserve-free bases, the higher marginal reserve requirement will 
apply to borrowings above the higher of (a) the minimum base of 
3 per cent of deposits, or (b) the average level of borrowings in 
the computation period ending November 25, 1970. 
b . The second major change applies an automatic downward 
adjustment feature to the minimum reserve-free bases applicable to 
Eurodollar borrowings. 
Such a feature is presently operative under 
Regulation II with respect to historical reserve-free bases. 
The 
effect of this amendment is to eliminate the reserve-free minimum 
base to the extent a bank elects not to make use of it. This change 
becomes effective as to reserve computation periods beginning 
December 24, 1970. 
/ 

3363 
/ 
-2-
c• The final change is technical. 
It provides, under 
Regulation D, a reserve-free minimum base with respect to reserve 
requirements against member bank borrowings from foreign banking 
offices. This change is designed to conform the approach of reserve 
requirements applicable to Eurodollar borrox;ings under Regulation D 
with the approach under Regulation M , which relates to Eurodollar 
borrowings by domestic offices from their foreign branches. 
This 
change becomes effective as to maintenance periods beginning 
-January 7, 1971, as to reserve computation periods ending December 23, 
1970. 
d. There was no notice and public participation with 
respect to these amendments, and in seme respects the effective 
date was deferred for less than the 30 days referred to in sec-
tion 553(d) of Title 5, United States Code. The Board found that 
following such procedures x^ith respect to these amendments would 
be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 30, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
