MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 16, 1972 

153S 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 16, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The staff presented a review of foreign exchange developments 
and domestic business and financial conditions of the kind customarily 
given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the Board's 
files. Mr. Rippey then commented on the status of pending legislation 
°f interest to the Board. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1539 
6/16/72 
-2-
A number of staff members who had attended only for purposes 
of the economic review then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Kichline, Chief, Capital Markets Section, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of Banque Nordique de Commerce, Paris, France. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical 
Bank, New York, New York, to establish an Edge corporation in San 
Francisco, California, to be known as Chemical Bank International of 
San Francisco. A copy of the letter informing the applicant of this 
action and transmitting a preliminary permit is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wells Fargo 
Bank International, New York, New York, to continue to hold shares of 
Wells Fargo International Investment Corporation after the latter 
acquires shares of Wells Fargo Assessoria Financiera Ltda., Sao Paulo, 
Brazil. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 3, 

1540 
6/16/72 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Kewanee 
Investing Company, Kewanee, Illinois, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of Kewanee National Bank, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No, A. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Exchange 
Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Citizens 
Bank of Clermont, Clermont, Florida, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Royal 
Trust Company, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to 
Inter National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Atlantic 
Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of University 
Atlantic Bank, also of Jacksonville, a proposed new bank. The Board 
also authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Carlton 
Agency, Inc., Carlton, Minnesota, (a) to become a bank holding company 

1541 
6/16/72 
"4-
through acquisition of shares of Carlton National Bank, and (b) to 
acquire certain assets of First National Bank Insurance Agency, also 
of Carlton. The Board also authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
these decisions. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 8. 
Pursuant to a recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of June 12, 1972, with which the Commit-
tee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans and the System 
Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism concurred, the 
Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
indicating that the Board has no objection to the Bank's plan for estab-
lishing a Maine Regional Check Processing Center. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
Pursuant to recommendations by the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations contained in a memorandum of June 14, 1972, in which 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation,and Building Plans and the 
System Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism concurred, 
the Board approved in principle, with details to be worked out by Governor 
Mitchell, a proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta to expand 
the immediate payment areas surrounding five of its offices (Atlanta, 
Birmingham, Jacksonville, Nashville, and New Orleans). 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Capital National Corporation. 
In a memorandum of May 30, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 

1542 
6/16/72 
-2-
application of Capital National Corporation, Houston, Texas, to acquire 
shares of Northwest National Bank, also of Houston. The Banking Markets 
Section also recommended approval. Other documentation brought out 
that although the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had recommended denial, 
it did not feel strongly about the application. 
Discussion indicated a view that the draft order that had been 
Prepared reflecting the staff's favorable recommendation should state 
ttore fully information relating to expected improvements in the capital 
Position of the holding company's present bank subsidiary. 
The application was approved unanimously and issuance of an 
order in the form attached as Item No. 10 was authorized. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Same-day substitution. On June 13, 1972, the Board discussed 
Pending proposals, which had been published for comment in April 1972, 
to limit the use of the same-day substitution privilege in margin accounts 
under Regulations G, T, and U, relating to credit for securities trans-
itions. Action was deferred pending the outcome of a conference the 
Board's staff expected to hold with representatives of the securities 
indus try. 
In a memorandum of June 15 the Division of Research and Statistics 
and the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitted a new draft of 
regulatory amendments reflecting suggestions received during the conference. 

1543 
6/16/72 
-6-
The staff also proposed an amendment to Regulation T to permit short sales 
of convertible securities on the same terms as short sales of stock. This 
amendment had been published for comment a year ago, and adoption was 
considered necessary to alleviate technical problems. 
In essence, the industry group had made two proposals during 
the conference. The first would minimize operational problems involved 
in setting up a sliding scale for selecting the accounts that would forfeit 
the same-day substitution privilege. The staff recommended adoption of 
that proposal, and the revised draft of amendments embodied it. The second 
Proposal called for adoption by the Board of a formula under which the 
margin status of the accounts selected would have to be somewhat improved 
if a same-day substitution took place, but the customer would still retain 
Part of the advantage he at present enjoyed when he made such a substi-
tution. The staff did not believe that this proposal was in accord with 
the Board's objectives, and did not recommend it. 
While different in form, the draft proposal for establishing a 
sliding scale of margin accounts according to their margin status was 
based on the same criteria as used in the earlier draft amendments, except 
that a different method was provided for calculating the status of the 
account. The method now proposed, which was described in a paper attached 
to the memorandum, would be operationally simpler, but its net effect 
would be somewhat more restrictive than that of the original proposal. 
During explanation of technical aspects of the margin status 
measurement contemplated earlier and that now proposed, the staff brought 

1544 
6/16/72 
-2-
out that although the method now recommended was somewhat more lenient 
with respect to certain individual accounts, it would have the effect 
of bringing substantially more accounts within the coverage of the 
limitations. 
It was therefore recommended that the revised proposals 
be published for comment, since they would affect a fairly large number 
of people who had not previously been put on notice. It was suggested 
that a short time be allowed for comments and that the announcement 
indicate that the Board expected to adopt the amendments on the revised 
basis at a specified time after the announcement. The staff indicated 
also that it did not recommend a suggestion by the industry representatives 
that the same-day substitution privilege be denied only to accounts in 
which debt represented more than 70 per cent of market value of stock 
collateral rather than 60 per cent as the Board's proposals contemplated. 
Other comments referred to the need to minimize back-office problems at 
brokerage houses. 
In the ensuing discussion, members of the Board expressed the 
understanding that this was merely the first of several anticipated 
steps in tightening the use of the same-day substitution privilege. There 
was general agreement to retain the 60 per cent cut-off for this step. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously approved 
Publishing the revised proposals for comments to be received by a short 
deadline and with an indication that the Board expected to adopt the 
revised proposals in approximately 30 days after that deadline. Attached 
under Item No. 11 are copies of the press release announcing this action, 
along with the proposed amendments. 

1545 
6/16/72 
-2-
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Melnicoff, Smith, R. Solomon, and Bryant. 
Governor Daane reported on a recent meeting of foreign central 
bankers in Basle, and Mr. Solomon reported on the working group meeting 
held simultaneously in Paris. 
Officer salary. The Board unanimously approved Governor Sheehan's 
recommendation that the salary of Mrs. Pauline B. Heller, Assistant 
General Counsel, Legal Division, be increased to an annual rate of $31,750, 
effective immediately. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
1 5 4 6 
OF THE 
' 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/16/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL RCRRESPDNDEMCE 
TO THE fJDARD 
June 16, 1972 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
^r* 1 erne n: 
As requested in your letter of May 8, 1972, the Board of 
Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal. 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Manufacturers llanover Trust Com-
pany ("MHTC"), New York, New York, to purchase and hold up to 
per cent of the shares of Banque Nordique de Commerce ("BNC"), 
Paris, France, at a total cost of approximately FF60,000,000 (about 
$12,000,000), provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
°£ BNC by MHTC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if BNC shall in ar.y manner engage in 
any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if BNC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MHTC 
will furnish the Board x\ritli such reports regarding 
the activities of BNC as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BNC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if BNC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

1547 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company 
(4) That HIITC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of BNC at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of BNC, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to your institution and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1518 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No# 2 
• FTHE 
6/16/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . 
D . 
C. 
205S1 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE! 
TO THE BOARD 
June 16, 1.972 
Chemical Bank 
Pine Street 
York, New York 10015 
Gentl Gmen: 
A
 
T h e Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
_sociation and the Organization Certificate, dated April 4 1972 
Cnemical Bank International of San Francisco, San Francisco 
' 
th' °rilla> a n d t h e r e i s enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing 
tin ^P°ration to exercise such of the powers conferred by Sec-
j, n 
o f the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and pre-
• Quinary to its organization. 
the r 
E X ? e p t a s P r o v i d e d 
Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
byB Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
4 r 
™ 
( a ) U n L i l U 
h a S r e c e l v e d a 
permit from the Board 
isc. ° r " m g it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
0 ; 
f f i n a l P e r m i t t o c o m m e n c e business, the president, treasurer 
tsrliV , ? Z y \ t 0 S e t h e r W l t h a t l e a s t t h r e e o f t h e directors, must 
(2\ 
y W 
t h a t G a c h director is a citizen of the United States-
/that a majority of the shares of capital stock, is held and owned 
> c o z e n s of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
*nder6!£ 
I' if ° W n e d b y C i t i z e n s o f t h e United States, chartered 
or H 
l a W S o f t h e United States or of a State of the United States 
y firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
stocfcens 
r * U n i t G d S t a t e s ; a n d ( 3 ) t h a t o f t h e authorized capital 
has K S p e c i f ^ G d l n t h e Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
Paid 
1 
i n i n C a s h a n d t h a t e a c h shareholder has individually 
a{ t p r
l" M
l n ° a S h a L l e a S t 2 5 p e r c e n t o f h i s stock subscription. There-
to* J'. l h c . t r e a s u r o r 0 r secretary shall certify to the payment of the 
law. 
g l n s t a l m e n t s a s and when each is paid in, in accordance with 
. . Y k JV a t t e n t i o n is directed to the fact that Chemical Bank 
foroT 
i 
S a n F r a n c i s c o w i U have no separate base under the 
C r 
restraint effort and that any foreign loans and in-
-nts will need to be made under the ceiling of Chemical Bank. 

m 
1549 
Chemical Bank 
-*2" 
flnnrovai 
is given with the understanding 
Accordingly, the foregoing a
p
p
f
^ 
a t i o t t will be 
that any foreign loans and J e 
Guidelines as they apply to 
r«ade within the Foreign Credit Restraint u 
Chemical Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
_ 
Tynan Smith 
. 
Secretary of the Board 
Encl osure 

1550 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.c. 2 0 5 5 1 
Jane 16, 1972 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested 
in it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, 
has this day approved the Articles of Association and Organi-
zation Certificate dated April 4, 1972, of CHEMICAL BANK 
INTERNATIONAL OF SAN FRANCISCO duly filed with said Board of 
Governors, and that CHEMICAL BANK INTERNATIONAL OF SAN FRANCISCO 
is authorized to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it 
by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization pending the issuance by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to com-
mence business in accordance with the provisions of said Sec-
tion 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
By 
(SEAL) 

B H A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
15 
Item No. 3 
6/16/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055T 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D 
1 O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 16, 1972 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
tc-.I1 Street 
New York, «ew York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of April 14 and 21, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("WFBI'1) to 
c°ntinue to hold the shares of Wells Fargo International Investment 
Corporation ("WFI1C") after WFIIC acquires all of the shares of Wells 
1?arg0 Assessoria Financiera Ltda. ("WFAF11) , Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a 
cost of approximately Cr$600,000 (about $100,000), provided $25,000 
is invested in the shares within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of WFAF by WFBI is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That WFBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in WFAF if WFAF at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if WFAF 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any ac-
tion or undertakes any operation in Brazil or else-
where, in any manner, which at the time would not 
be permissible to WFBI; 
<r> That, when required by the Board of Governors, WFBI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of WFAF as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WFAF 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if WFAF were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

1552 
To: Wells Fargo Bank International 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by WFAF in Brazil in the cur-
*-cr>cv of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of WFAF. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1558 
Item No. 
5 
6/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ICEWANEE INVESTING CO??ANY 
Order Approving Action to Become a Bank Holding Company 
Kex^anee Investing Company, ICewanee, Illinois, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 60,04 per cent of the voting shares of ICewanee National 
Bar*k, ICewanee, Illinois ("Bank'1). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
arid views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
\ 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation formed for the 
\ 
Purpose of acquiring the assets and assuming the liabilities of ICewanee 
Investing Company, an Iowa corporation that is a registered bank holding 
c°ropany presently holding 60.04 per cent of the voting shares of Bank 
($5 million of deposits as of June 30, 1^71), the smaller of two banks 
the city of ICewanee. The proposed transaction is essentially a 
c°rporate reorganization in which the ownership of Bank will be trans-
from an Iowa corporation to an Illinois corporation with the same 
st°ckholders. Applicant states that the reason for the reorganization 
i s to facilitate the obtaining of additional capital at minimum cost. 
C°^summation of the proposal would not alter existing banking competition 
n°r 3ignificantiy affect potential competition; nor does it appear that 
fcWe would be any adverse effects on any bank in the relevant area. 

1554 
As a result of consummation of the proposal, Applicant will 
assume a large debt nox-7 held by the Iox/a corporation. The size of 
the debt to be transferred to Applicant is of serious concern to the 
T3°ard. However, Applicant states that it proposes to raise additional 
CaPital through a stock issue; and it appears that the change in the 
Elding company's state of incorporation to the State of Illinois would 
a reduction of the debt since the cost of raising additional 
capital through the intrastate sale of equity securities should be substan-
tially i e s s than if the holding company remained an Iowa corporation, 
^he prospect of an early reduction of the holding company's debt lends 
some weight toward approval of the application. 
No immediate benefits to convenience and needs of the community 
t o be served will result from the consummation of Applicant's proposal, 
however, the improved financial condition of Applicant which is projected 
after the infusion of additional capital and its ability as an Illinois 
CorPoration 
to raise capital more easily for the Bank if the need should 
arise should enhance Bank's financial condition, and improve its ability 
to serve the banking needs of its area. Considerations relating to 
convenience 
and needs are regarded as consistent with approval of the 
aPPUcation. 
It is the Board's judgment that the application should 
app r o v ed. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

1555 
-3-
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective June 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer 
a n d Bucher. 

1558 
Item No. 5 
6/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
EXCHANGE BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
C°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
tr\ 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Citizens Bank of 
Clettnont, Clermont, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
an<1 the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(C)). 
Applicant, the tenth largest of twenty-three multibank holding 
in Florida, controls seven banks with aggregate deposits of 
^16,8 million, representing 2.15 per cent of the total deposits in 
Cotomercial banks in Florida."'' Applicant's acquisition of Bank (deposits 
fN-C 
million) would increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits 
by n , 
°nly .08 percentage points. 
Bank is the fourth largest of five banks in the South Lake 
p 
°Unty banking market, controlling 14.35 per cent of deposits in that 
^ 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
mPany formations and acquisitions to date. 

1557 
-2~ 
^ k e t . No existing nor significant potential competition between Bank 
and any of Applicant's existing subsidiary banks would be eliminated upon 
c°nsummation of this proposal because of Florida's restrictive branching 
laws and the distance of 32 miles which separate Bank and Applicant's 
nea*"est subsidiary banking office. On the basis of the record, the Board 
c°nsiders that consummation of the proposal would not adversely affect 
competition in any relevant area nor would any competing bank be adversely 
affected. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
^pPlicant, its subsidiary banks and Bank are generally satisfactory and 
c°nsistent with approval. In addition, it is expected that Bank's affilia-
te n with Applicant will help Bank develop a more stable and prudent 
^anagement. Applicant will incur substantial debt in acquiring Bank. 
Hn 
°wever, Applicant has assured the Board that it will promptly retire 
debt from the proceeds of a public offering of securities to be 
is 
such 
8Ued shortly. In light of Applicant's assurances, the Board does not 
°Usider the debt involved significant enough to bar approval of this 
Pv°Posal. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
0Rllnunity to be served lend weight toward approval of the application, 
Sin 
e Applicant proposes to offer "through Bank, trust, travel and inter-
J-°nal banking services that are not presently available in Bank's 
It is the Board s judgment that the proposed acquisition would be 
^ e public interest and that the application should be approved. 

1558 
- 6 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tlle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective June 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL ] 
^27 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer 
a n d Bucher. 

1559 
Item No. 
10 
6/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE ROYAL TRUST COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
The Royal Trust Company, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Hold-
in8 Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank hold-
ing company through acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
Inter National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida ("Bank"). The bank 
into which Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a 
means to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares of Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
°rganization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of 
shares of Bank, 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing com-
ments and views has expired, and none has been timely received, 
^ e Board has considered the application in light of the factors 
forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant with total assets of $1.6 billion!/ is the 
latgest trust company in Canada, also operating through sub-
diaries and other interests, in Great Britain, Ireland, the 
Channel Islands, the Bahamas, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, and 
Hebrides. Applicant engages principally in trust and real 
p~~This datum is as of December 31, 1971 and is stated in terms of 
^nadian dollars. 

1560 
-2-
estate financing activities outside of the United States. Con-
summation of the proposed transaction therefore would not eliminate 
anY existing competition in the United States. 
Bank, with deposits of close to $43 million,!/ is the 
nineteenth largest of the 75 banks located in Dade County, Florida, 
the relevant banking market, and holds 1.26 per cent of the total 
amount of deposits in commercial banks located in that market. 
Since Applicant is not considered to be a likely potential entrant 
into the Dade County banking market other than by the proposed 
Qcqulsition of Bank, consummation of that transaction is unlikely 
t o have an adverse effect upon potential competition. Rather, it 
aPpears that consummation of the proposal may promote competition 
in that an affiliation of Bank with Applicant should strengthen 
^nk'a ability to compete in a market, a substantial proportion 
o f which is controlled by the largest bank holding company in 
F l oUda. 
The financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of Applicant and Bank are consistent with approval of 
t h e application, especially in view of the fact that the proposal 
h a s been structured in such a manner that, upon consummation of 
t h e transaction, Bank's capital and surplus will be increased by 
and outstanding convertible debentures in the sum of 
^°0,000 will be either converted to capital stock or redeemed, 
shareholders of Bank are to be accorded equal treatment. 
banking data are as of June 30, 1971 unless otherwise indicated. 

-2-
1561 
Although the banking needs of the Dade County community are being 
Served adequately by existing institutions, consummation of the 
Proposed transaction should have a beneficial effect on the con-
silience and needs of that community in that Applicant intends 
to utilize its trust expertise in the establishment of a trust 
department in Bank and to improve the services offered by Bank's 
international department. This aspect of the proposal lends some 
Weight toward approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment 
fchat the transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
aPPlication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
thp 
effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors ,.2/ effective June 15, 1572. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
v°ting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^itchell, Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
dimmer and Bucher. 

1562 
Item No. 
10 
6/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) t o acquire not less than 70 per cent of the voting shares 
o f University Atlantic Bank, Jacksonville, Florida ("Bank"), a pro-
Posed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d none has been timely received. The Board has considered the appli-
Cation in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(C)). 
Applicant controls 20 banks with aggregate deposits of about 
million, representing 4.8 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deposits in the State, and is the fifth largest banking organization and 
bar*k holding company in F l o r i d a . S i n c e Bank is a proposed new bank, 
existing competition would be eliminated nor would concentration be 
creased in any relevant area. 
in a 
Bank would be located to the east of downtown Jacksonville, 
recently developing trade area with an estimated population of 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect bank holding 
HayP3iy f o r r a a t i o n s a n d acquisitions approved by the Board through 

1563 
-2-
20,000, and would be competing in the Duval County banking market, in 
which market Applicant controls 31.3 per cent of deposits and is the 
largest of 13 banking organizations in that market. Applicant presently 
operates six banks in the Duval County banking market, two of which, 
Southside Atlantic Bank and The Atlantic Bank of Jacksonville, compete 
the primary service area of the proposed Bank. However, Southside 
Bank is located seven miles west of Bank and is separated from Bank by 
Numerous intervening banks. Jacksonville Bank, Applicant's lead sub-
sidiary bank, is located ten miles west of Bank and is separated from 
lt by the St. John s River, The most convenient and accessible routes 
between Jacksonville Bank and Bank are by means of toll bridges. 
Applicant's share of deposits in the relevant market has 
declined over the past ten years. The second and third largest bank 
Elding companies in the market control, respectively, 23.5 and 20.8 
P er cent of commercial bank deposits there. It appears that consumma-
tion of the proposal herein would not alter adversely the competitive 
situation nor the concentration of resources in the market. Nor is 
t^ere any evidence that Applicant's proposal is an attempt to pre-empt 
a site before there is a need for a bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and the future prospects 
of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are regarded as generally satis-
factory. Prospects for Bank appear favorable. Bank would be able to 
Ptovide a local alternative banking source within the proposed service 
at<5a, which is experiencing rapid growth, and is presently being served 

1584 
-2-
by 
banks located outside of the service area. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the area to be served lend slight 
support to, and are consistent with, approval of the application. It 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and 
University Atlantic Bank, Jacksonville, Florida, shall be opened 
business not later than six months after the effective date of this 
°rder. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective June 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer 
Bucher. 

1565 
Item No. 
10 
6/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CARLTON AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Acquisition of First National Bank Insurance Agency 
Carlton Agency, Inc., Carlton, Minnesota, has submitted an 
amended proposal for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Carlton National Bank, Carlton, 
Minnesota ("Bank"). Applicant's original application was denied by 
Board Order dated January 27, 1972 (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 168). 
At the same time, Applicant has resubmitted, as part of its 
amended proposal, its application for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to engage in 
Cettain permissible insurance agency activities through the acquisition 
o f certain assets of First National Bank Insurance Agency, Carlton, 
Minnesota ("Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of these applications was published in the 
Pe<*eral Register on April 21, 1972 (37 Federal Register 7950). Time 
filing comments and views has expired, and none havo been timely 
deceived. The Board has considered the applications in light of the 
factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, and the considerations 
sPecifi.ed i n § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 

30 
-2-
Upon acquisition of Bank ($6.3 million in deposits), Applicant 
would control about 0.1 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in 
the State.!/ As the proposed transaction represents a transfer of 
an individual's ownership of Bank into a presently nonoperating holding 
company, consummation would not eliminate any existing or potential 
competition and would not result in any increase in the concentration 
°f banking resources in any relevant area. Bank's management and 
financial condition are consistent with approval and its capital is 
^equate. 
Applicant's original proposal was denied by the Board on the 
bounds that the acquisition debt involved presented adverse circum-
stances bearing on the financial condition and prospects of Applicant 
a^d Bank which were not outweighed by any other factors of record. 
Under the present proposal Applicant would still incur acquisition debt 
°f $175,000, however, due to increased capital of the Bank from 
tetained earnings this would amount to approximately 53 per cent of 
applicant1s equity rather than 66 per cent. The balance of the debt, 
$100,000, while still being held by the principal, will no longer 
b e secured directly or indirectly by the stock of Applicant since the 
Principal has pledged assets to the lending institution with sufficient 
income to amortize the installments on the debt as they come due over 
a ten-year period. Further, due to greater than projected earnings 
f°r 1971 and consequent higher projected earnings in the future, 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

1567 
-3-
significantly less of Bank's earnings will be needed to amortize Appli-
cant's debt than the 60 per cent present in the first proposal. The 
Board concludes that considerations relating to the acquisition debt 
involved in the present proposal are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
The convenience and needs of the community involved are con-
sistent with approval of the application, as there will result no 
change in Bank's present operations. Accordingly, it is the Board's 
judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest, and 
that the § 3 application should be approved. 
Agency is the only general insurance agency in Carlton 
(1970 population 8u4) and is located on the premises of Bank, The 
operation by a bank holding company of a general insurance agency 
in a community with a population of less than 5,000 is an activity 
that the Board has previously determined to be closely related to 
hanking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)(iii)). 
There is no evidence in the record that the proposal would 
result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices or other adverse 
effects on the public interest. The acquisition would assure continuation 
°f the only source of general insurance in the town of Carlton and would 
ass ist Applicant in servicing its acquisition debt. Based upon the 
foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board 

15(b8 
- 4 -
has determined that the balance of the public interest factors the 
Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) regarding the performance 
Applicant of Agency's business is favorable and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire 
®ank and Agency are approved for the reasons summarized above. The 
acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order, or (b) later 
than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. The determination 
a s to Agency's activities is subject to the Board's authority to require 
feports by, and make examinations of, holding companies and their 
Subsidiaries and to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
^ i 
n d s necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
Of co prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective j u n e 
1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(s 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
— 
Sit V ° t i n g f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
a n d
c h e ll> Daane and Sheehan. Absent and not voting; Governors Brimmer 
o Bucher. 

1569 
B O A R D fJF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
6/16/72 
"K.-.y^ 
W A S H I N G T O N , n. c. r.ossi 
June 16, 1972 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L CUBRCSrOMOENCE 
tn THE BOAf.B 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
-S 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors has no objection to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston's plan for estab-
lishing a Maine Regional Check Processing Center ?md 
approves an increase of 18 positions in the present 
employment ceiling of 1,298, The Board also approves 
an estimator! increase of $191,700 in the First Dis-
trict's 1.972 budget; to provide funds for implementa-
tion and operation of the Maine facility. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1570 
Item No. 10 
6/16/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CAPITAL NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank Shares 
Capital National Corporation, Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire a new issue of voting shares of Northwest National Bank, 
Houston, Texas ("Bank"), which would then constitute 25 per cent of the 
shares outstanding. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
3nd the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant presently controls one bank, Capital National Bank, 
Huston, Texas ("CNB"), with deposits of approximately $127 million, 
^Presenting 0.5 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in 
^exas. 
Applicant proposes to acquire all 16,667 of a new issue of 
shares of Bank ($10 million in deposits) which would equal 25 per cent 
o f Bank's stock after issuance. Present stockholders of Bank will not 
Participate in the offering to increase Bank's stock; however, they were 
n°tified by a proxy statement and voted approval of the proposed sale of 
y 
All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding 
J°mpany acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through 
30, 1972. 

1571 
-2-
shares to Applicant, Inasmuch as the proposal involves purchasing newly 
issued shares which will augment Bank's capital, the absence of an offer 
to buy all outstanding shares of Bank is not regarded as inequitable to 
°ther shareholders of Bank. The acquisition of voting shares of Bank 
would not significantly increase Applicant's share of total deposits 
the relevant area or within the State, and would not adversely affect 
°ther area banks. 
A group of Applicant's officers and principal shareholders 
sponsored the organization of Bank in 1969. Bank serves the Houston 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) as a small retail bank 
^here it ranks as the eighty-fifth largest of the market's 145 banks. 
holds .2 per cent of total deposits in this area. Applicant's sub-
sidiary, CNB, also serves the Houston SMSA as the sixth largest bank, 
h°lding 2.1 per cent of total area deposits. The two banks are eight 
m U e s apart, and only .3 per cent of CNB deposits and loans originate in 
the area served by Bank, and no meaningful present competition would be 
eliminated by this proposal. It also appears that no substantial amount 
future competition would be foreclosed by the acquisition because of 
state laws which prohibit branching and in view of the 21 banking offices 
intervene the densely populated area between Bank and CNB. Com-
petitive considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
Applicant's management is regarded as capable. The Board 
i s concerned that Applicant's level of indebtedness is relatively 
However, mitigating this consideration is the fact that 

1572 
-3-
APplicant has outstanding $2 million of subordinated convertible 
debentures that possess certain features which could result in their 
conversion to equity as early as November 1972. In addition, Appli-
cant has offered for sale a parcel of real estate, the proceeds of 
which could be used to substantially reduce Applicant's outstanding 
debt. In view of these considerations and in view of CNB's earnings 
deposit growth over the past four years, it appears that Appli-
cant's projections for retirement of its total debt in four years 
are feasible. The financial and managerial resources of Bank are 
rGgarded as satisfactory. Prospects for both Applicant and Bank 
3Ppear favorable. Considerations relating to banking factors are 
consistent with approval of the application. 
The newly issued shares of Bank's stock which Applicant 
proposed to acquire will augment Bank's capital and enable it to 
fin 
a a n c e new and permanent banking quarters, thus making it possible 
£ 
Bank to increase its staff and provide enlarged parking facili-
t i e s for its customers. In addition, Bank's lending limit will be 
in creased, and Applicant proposed to introduce trust and inter-
national services for customers of Bank. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the relevant areas are consistent 
V i th and lend weight.toward approval of the application. It is 
th 
e Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction 
uld be in the public interest and that the application should 
approved. 

-3-
1573 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
V 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman 
Mitchell, Daane and Sheehan. Absent 
amd Bucher. 
Burns and Governors Robertson, 
and not voting: Governors Brimmer 

Item No. 11 
-6/16/72 
Immediate release 
J u n e 1 6 > 1 9 7 2 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System proposed 
today to put into effect on August 14 a modified technical amendment to 
3-ts margin regulations designed to improve the quality of stock market 
Cl'edit. The change will strengthen the equity position of low-margin 
founts when offsetting sales and purchases of stock collateral are 
on the same day. 
The proposed amendment :1s basically the came as that published 
by thG L o a r d f o r public comment on April 28. However, because of cer-
taiu technical changes made since that time, the Board said it will 
l*eceive additional comment on the modified proposal through July 10. 
modifications affect: the manner of calculating the status of margin 
founts. 
Under the modified amendment, use of the "same-day substi-
^tion" rule would end in accounts where the debt--adjusted as defined 
Uie regulation—is more than 60 per cent of the market value of the 
8tock. collateral in the account. 
Under the "same-day substitution" rule, customers arc permitted 
to Substitute one security for another in their accounts through off-
*ettin8 purchases and sales made on the same day even if the amount is 

- 2 -
the initial margin requirement. Presently, no margin customer is 
to put up additional equity unless he buys more "securities 
tllat* ho. sells on that: day. This practice makes it possible for customers 
V'lth undermargined accounts to continue trading for extended periods 
wit-hout putting up additional equity. 
Today's action would amend the Board's regulations governing 
tensions of credit by brokers and dealers (Regulation T) and loans by 
b^»ks and other lenders (Regulation U and G respectively) for the pur-
of purchasing or carrying stocks registered on a national exchange 
named, in the Board's over-the-counter margin list. 
In a second action, the Board also said it intends to adopt, 
'^fective August 14, another technical amendment to Regulation T to 
short sales of stock into which bonds are convertible on the 
terms as ordinary short sales of stock. 
A copy of the amendments is attached. 
-0-

15 
TITLE 12 -- BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II — FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A ~ BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESETlVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. G, T, and U] 
PARTS 207, 220, and 221 - SECURITIES CREDIT TSANSACTIONS 
Same-Day Substitutions; Convertible f,Hedge:' Transactions 
By notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal 
^Sister on May 6, 1972 (37 F. R. 9243), the Board of Governors pro-
pQ8<* to amend Regulations G, T, and U in order to require the deposit 
0J additional margin in connection with purchases and sales of securi-
ties executed on the same day, in margin accounts whose net equity 
statUs i.s less than a percentage to be determined by the Board and 
P u bUshed in the. Supplements to the regulations. 
As one of a group of technical amendments, the Board also, 
notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal Register on 
29 % 1971 (36 F. R. 14033) proposed to amend g§ 220.3 (a), 220.3(d) 
?2C.4(j) of Regulation T to provide that short sales of stock into 
a security is convertible may be effected 
in a special conver-
g e debt security account without deposit of additional margin, if the 
Avertible security is held in the special convertible debt security 
^count. 
Following consideration of all the comments received, the 
has made final technical revisions in certain of the proposal's, 
follow, 
. • 
<r» 
S'o 

1577 
_ 
— 
\ 
- 2 -
1. Paragraphs a, b, 6 and g of Section 220.3 would bo amended 
set forth below: 
§ 2^0.3 -- GENiSRAL ACCOUNT 
(a) Contents of general account. All financial relations 
between a creditor and a customer, whether recorded in one record 
°r in more than one record, shall be included in and be deemed to be 
o f t h c customers general account with the creditor, except that 
relations which § 220.4 permits to be included in any special 
aCcount provided for by that acction may be included in the appro-
b a t e special account, and all transactions in commodities, and ex-
to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(2) of § 220.3, all trans-
itions in non-equity securities, exempted securities, and in other 
securities having no loan value in a general account under the pro-
vl8ions of § 220.3(c) and & 220.3 (the Supplement to Regulation T) 
unissued securities, short sales and securities positions 
t:° Offset eUort sales other than those permitted in § 220.4(j)(5) 
0f this part, purchases to cover short sales and contracts in-
v°lving an endorsement or guarantee cf any put, call, or other 
0Pticm), shall be included in the appropriate special account pro-
v e d for by § 220.4. During any period when such § 220.8 specifies 
margin equity securities shall have no loan value in a general 
Qcc«unt or special convertible debt security account (sometimes 
V ^ r r G d to herein as "special convertible security account") 
Guhject to S 220.40), any transaction consisting of a purchase of e 
P u r i t y other than a purchase of a security to reduce or close out a 
gj, 
position shall be 

in the special cash account provided for by § 220.4(c) or in 
^otne other appropriate special account provided for by § 220.4. 
(b) General rule. (l)(i) A creditor shall not effect for 
0lr with any customer in a general account, special bond account sub-
^ 
to § 220.4(1), or special convertible debt security account any 
^ns.action. which, in combination with the other transactions effected 
snch account on the same day, creates an excess of the adjusted 
delii.t balance of such account over the maximum loan value of the secu-
rxties i n s u ch account, or increases any such excess, unless in con-
ation therewith the creditor obtains, as promptly as possible and 
11 
event before the expiration of 5 full business days following 
d«fce of such transaction, the deposit into such account of cash 
Purities in such amount that the cash deposited plus the loan 
Vfll 
JG of the securities deposited equals or exceeds the excess so 
Cte>Qted or the increase so causcd. 
(ii) If the adjusted debit balance in a general account or 
Sr'°cial convertible debt security account, computed using the margin 
^uU-ornent for short sales specified in § 220.8(g)(2) of the Supple-
s t to Regulation T, exceeds the maximum loan value of the securities 
a°ch account specified in § 220.0(g)(1), the account is "subject to 
JC(:tion 0(g)," If an account is subjcct to section 8(g) as of the 
ci 
°Sq Of business on. the preceding business day, it shall be subject, 
ln Edition to all other requirements applying to the account, to the 
^u*re.ment that the creditor shall not effect any transaction in the 

1579 
- 4 -
Qccount which crentes an excess of the adjusted debit balance of cuch 
account, computed using the margin requirements for short sales spec!-
in § 220.8(d), over the maximum loan value of the securities in 
1 Account specified in §§ 220.8(a) and (c), or increases any such 
unless in connection therewith the creditor obtains, as promptly 
and in any event be£oi*e the expiration of 5 full business 
J Allowing the date of such transaction, the deposit into such 
Qcc0uri 
^o. loan value of the securities deposited equals or exceeds the 
n t of cash or securities in such amount that the cash deposited 
Plu 
3 so created or the increase so caused, The required deposit may 
uuctd by the amount of cash or securities which otherwise could 
pursuant to the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this 
^ a p h in connection with any other transactions in the account ori 
* 
nn,e day. 
>V 
VV 
IV 
* 
VV 
(d) Adjusted debit balance. For the purpose of this part, 
tlle Q<U 
justed debit balance of a general account, special bond account, o r spec-
''^ortible debt •. security account shall be calculated by taking 
D t the following items: 
"fr 
-k 
"k 
•>< 
:k 
(3) 
the current market value of any securities (other than 
securities) sold short in the general account plus, for each -
^tner than an exempted security), such amount as the Board 
describe from time to time in § 220.8 (the Supplement to 

1580 
V l a t i o a T) as the margin required for such short salesexcept 
such amount so prescribed in such § 220.8 (d) need not be included 
there are held in the general account or special convertible debt 
^ r i t y account the same securities or securities exchangeable or 
^ertilOe witlvin 90 calendar days, without restriction other than 
the Payment of money, into such securities sold short; 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(8) Transactions 
- 
For the purpose of 
^Paragraph (b)(1) of this section, except in the case of an account 
8ubJect to section 8(g), the question of whether or not an. excess of 
the ^justed debit balance of a general account, special bond recount, 
ePo:ciai convertible security account over the maximum loan value of 
securities in such account is created or increased on a given day 
r > h a U be determined on the basis of all the transactions in the account 
nVl G,Jch day exclusive of any deposit of cash, deposit of securities, 
C°Vc*inB transactions, or other liquidation that has been effected on 
SU°h 
pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b) .or (e) of 
Action, in connection with a transaction on a previous day. 
(2) In the case of an account subject to section 8(g), the 
deposit, under subparagraph (b)(l.) (ii) of this section in 
A c t i o n with transactions on a given day, shall be equal to the 
by which the retention requirement of any securities sold for 
U t h Account on such day excecds the maximum loan value of any secu-
Purchased in such account cn such day. 'Such coapOtoftlon may bo 
c' 
the 

1581 
- 
6 
-
or trading on such day and shall be made exclusive of any deposit 
C a s h, deposit of occur!ties, covering transactions or other liquida-
te 
011 th-t*. has been effected on such day, pursuant to the requirements 
Para8raphs (b) or (c) of this section, in connection with a trans-
< 0 u 
a previous day. . 
(3) In any case, in which an excess so created, or increase 
6° Can sed, by transactions on a given day does not exceed $100, the 
Lt v 
, r need not obtain the deposit specified therefor in subpara-
^^ph (v, * 
^ ( 1 ) of this section. 
(4) Any transaction which serves to meet the requirements 
OF 
. 
"-S^flph (e) of this section or otherwise servos to'permit anv 
Of/' 
transaction in an account shall, to that extent, be un-
to permit any other transaction in such account. 
(5) For the purposes of this part (Regulation T), if a 
> 
maximum loan value under subparagraph (c)(3) of this 
in n 
Q general account, or under § 220.4(1) in a special con-
U b l e do, , 
ucbt security account, a sale of the same security (oven 
nof* < t 
j, 
t h G s ™e certificate) in such account shall be deemed to 
Q 
W 
s Bfllc and shall not be deemed to be or treated as a short 
' G . 
vV 
'< 
* 
'!e 
* 
Section 220.4 would be amended as follows: 
SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 

- 
1 
- 
~ 
(j) Special convertible, debt security account. 
* 
* 
* 
(4) In the event any convertible debt security, held in this 
Qccount Is to be converted to a stock, such security shall upon con-
Ve*6ion bo. transferred to the customer's general account against a 
deP0Qit of each or margin securities eligible for an extension of credit 
tn this account (counted at their maximum loan value) equal to at least 
Maximum loan value of the security for which such substitution ic 
without regard to the retention requirement of § 220.3(b)(2). 
(5) In a special convertible debt security account the 
atnouftt of margin equity securities into which a margin debt security 
in the account is convertible may be cold short without regard 
to the margin required for short sales in § 2.20.8(d) (Supplement to 
Iv0Eulation T), and such short position may be carried in the special 
n°ttVe m b l e d e b t o e c u r i t y account in conformity with the exception 
vlded i n § 220.3(d)(3) of this part. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
3. 
A new paragraph 3(g) of 5 220.3 (the Supplement to 
to 
V 8ttlation T) w o u l d b e added an follows and the present paragraphs (g) 
' 
would bo relettered accordingly: 
§ ??n o 
,e -- SUPPLEMENT 
•A' 
* 
* 
vV 
* 
(g) Account subject to section S(p). For purposes of the 
put-tion described in sections 220.3(b)(1)(ii)of: the regulation, 
(1) the maximum loan value or a registered non-equity secu-
>tty held i n t h G n c c o u n t on March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter, 

1583 
I 
M 
A 
- 8 -
«nd of G margin equity security shall be 60 per cent of the current 
®**ket value of such security, and the maximum loan value'of an-
e^mpted security held in the account on March 11, 1968, and 
continuously thereafter shall be the maximum loan value of the 
Purity as determined by the creditor in good faith. 
(2) The amount to be included in the adjusted debit 
fiance of the account pursuant to § 220.3(d)(3) as margin required 
*<* short sales of securities (other than exempted securities) shall 
b* 40 per cent of the current market value of each security. 

- 9 -
Proposed § 207.1(f)(2) eliminates, for all accounts with 
equity ratio less than a figure deemed appropriate by the Board, 
tbe «ame day substitution rule under which securities of equal value 
be substituted for existing collateral without the requirement 
li?t: additional margin be provided. 
Proposed § 207.2(k) would define the term "equity ratio". 
Proposed § 207.5(f) (Supplement to Regulation G> provides a 
a 
paragraph (f) to the Supplement and establish an initial equity 
of 40 per cent. 
The proposed amendment published in the Federal Register 
0f May 6, 1972 which would add paragraph (i) to § 220.2. would be 
Proposed § 220.3(a) would provide that short sales of 
8eca*ities into which debt securities are convertible may be effected 
tl*e special convertible debt security account described in § 220.4(1) 
tOf Certain "hedging" transactions. 
Proposed 5 220.3(b) revises the substance of the amendment 
nitlaiiy published to provide that certain accounts with an equity 
" 't,,a lower than that deemed appropriate by the Board may no longer 
V>° 
same day substitution rule under which securities of equal 
V^i 
could be substituted for existing collateral without the require-
ment 4 , 
that additional margin be provided. The method for determining 
' 11 accounts described as accounts "subject to section o(g)" will 
Eligible for use of the rule is provided. This revision simplifies 
0,p-Putotiori required by the proposed amendment. 

1585 
- 10 -
Proposed § 220.3(d) makes conforming changes in'regard 
to short sales to be effected in the special convertible debt 
Sec^rity account described in § 220.4(j). 
Proposed § 220.3(g) revises the amendment as initially 
W i s h e d to conform it to the method used in revised § -220.3(b) 
e 
'°r determining which accounts may not use the same day substitution 
Section 220.3(g) prohibits the use of this rule by any account 
U'°S(i equity status places it in a category described as an account 
•Meet to section 0(g)." 
The proposed amendment published in the Federal Register 
• lIQy 6, 1972 which would amend paragraph (f) of § 220.4 would be 
Proposed § 220.4(1) provides that short sales of margin 
*"uity securities may be effected in the special convertible debt 
account u h e n tjlo convertible debt securities which are 
° n , / G m b l 0 into such equity securities are held in that account. 
Proposed g 220.8(g) provides a new paragraph (g) to 
Sr> 
c U o n 220. 8 (Supplement to Regulation T). The present paragraphs (g) 
(w 
" 
are relettered (h) and (i) respectively. 
The new paragraph 
(g) 
'"•tablishes the loan value and short sale margin requirements for 
X n computing which accounts will no longer be permitted to substitute 
car a I Qf equal value on the same day without providing additional 
ffiQjv . 
n« 
This new paragraph revises the substance of proposed 5 220.8(1) 
^ould bo. withdrawn. The loan value and short sale margin requirement; 
Ql'f. s ^ 
K 
initially at 60 per cent and 40 per cent respectively. 

1588 
- n -
Proposed § 221.1(c) eliminates use of the s a m e day -substitution 
tule for certain accounts whose equity status is lower than a figure 
appropriate by the Board, 
Proposed § 221.4(f) adds a paragraph to the Supplement to 
^&nl"tion U which provides for a minimum equity ratio to be set initially 
at . 
per cent. 
To aid in the consideration of the technical revisions set 
£°rth above, interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, 
Vi°'V)s> and comments. Any such material should be submitted in writing 
to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D C., 20551, to be received not later than July 10, 1972. 
Atly ^ch material will be made available for inspection and copying 
Up°n ^quest, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's 
t U l e a regarding availability of information. Subject to consideration 
' Guch data, views, and comments, the Board proposes to adopt the 
nts described above, as so revised, to be effective August 14, 1972, 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 16 , 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan, 
Assistant Secretary. 
M 
