m 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 6, 1969 

465 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 6, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Daane, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Ettin, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire, Maurer, and Shuter of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Report on competitive factors. After considering a draft 
of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Sonoma County, Sebastopol, 
California, into Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, California, 

1GB 
2/6/69 
-2-
members of the Board expressed agreement with the Banking Markets 
Section that the overall competitive effect of the proposed merger 
should be cited as adverse (rather than slightly adverse, as had 
been suggested by the Division of Supervision and Regulation). 
Changes 
in the conclusion of the report consistent with that finding were agreed 
upon, along with a change in one section of the text of the report 
dealing with shares of total deposits held by banks in the relevant 
market area. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the transmittal to the 
Comptroller of a report in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Because it would remove the competition existing 
between Bank of Sonoma County, Sebastopol, and Crocker-
Citizens National Bank, San Francisco, the effect of the 
proposal on competition would be adverse. 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval on January 30, 
1969, of the application of Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, Summit, 
New Jersey, to merge with Clark State Bank and Trust Company, Clark, 
New Jersey. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
Oregon Bank. The Board authorized issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting approval on January 22, 1969, of the application 
of The Oregon Bank, Portland, Oregon, to merge with Citizens Bank of 
Oregon, Lake Oswego, Oregon. Copies of the documents are attached under 
Item No. 2. 
Survey of trust department assets. In connection with the 
current survey of trust department assets of State member banks, reports 

H > 7 
2/6/69 
-3-
on which were to be filed by the banks not later than March 1, 1969, 
United Bank & Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, had asked to be 
excused from filing a report because of certain internal operating 
problems relating principally to conversion to a computerized trust 
accounting system. While the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston supported 
the member bank's request, the Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
in a memorandum of February 3, 1969, recommended granting an extension 
to June 1, 1969, in lieu of excusing the bank completely. 
After discussion, agreement was expressed with the staff 
recommendation and unanimous approval was given to a letter to United 
Bank & Trust Company in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
In another memorandum, dated January 30, 1969, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation reported requests from two State member 
banks located in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, for extensions of time 
until June 30, 1969, to file their reports. 
(It was understood by 
the Division that other banks in the same city might file similar 
requests.) 
It appeared that the difficulty involved in compiling the 
reports was compounded by a requirement that the banks file personal 
property tax returns with the city of Philadelphia. After checking 
with the other bank supervisory agencies to ascertain their likely 
reaction to such requests, the Division recommended that the two State 
member banks be granted extensions of time until April 1, 1969, which would 
allow data received from them to be combined with data supplied by other 
banks in connection with the survey. The Division also suggested that 

... 468 
2/6/69 
-4-
the Board grant to it authority to deal with any requests from other 
banks in similar fashion if adequate reasons were given by such banks. 
Members of the Board ascertained from the staff that if 
the reports were filed not later than May 1, 1969, the data probably 
could still be incorporated in the aggregate survey statistics without 
undue delay in the contemplated publication schedule. Therefore, they 
were inclined to grant such an extension of time to the Philadelphia 
banks if the Division, after discussing the situation with them, 
concluded that the extension was justified. 
The Division was instructed to proceed accordingly and was 
authorized to handle in similar fashion any additional requests for 
extension of time that might be received. 
(Note: Attached as Items 4 
and 5 are copies of the letters sent subsequently to the two Philadelphia 
banks that had originally requested extensions of time until June 1, 1969.) 
During the foregoing discussion it was noted that one of the 
Philadelphia banks had inquired whether the Board expected to request 
the information on trust departments annually, or on some other regular 
basis, so that the bank could plan its computer programs. In reply to 
a question from a Board member, Mr. Leavitt indicated that he would like 
to discuss the question of continuing the surveys with his colleagues 
in the research function and with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpor-
ation before making a recommendation since some reservations with regard 
to the value of the statistics had been expressed. If the decision 
should be to continue the surveys, he agreed that the reporting banks 

170 
2/6/69 
-6-
should be advised of that decision as promptly as possible in order to 
allow them to make their plans. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Implementation of OTC margin legislation. Reference to a 
follow-up discussion that occurred at this meeting with regard to one 
aspect of the proposed regulations to implement the so-called OTC margin 
legislation is included in the minutes of February 5, 1969• 
One-bank holding company legislation. Governor Sherrill 
raised certain questions in the light of exploratory conversations he 
had been having with Treasury Department representatives concerning the 
drafting of proposed legislation for the regulation of one-bank holding 
companies. One of the principal questions to which he referred had to 
do with where responsibility for the administration of such legislation 
should be lodged. 
In an informal discussion of the matter, one Board member 
(Governor Maisel) expressed the opinion that responsibility for the 
regulation of bank holding companies definitely should not be fragmented 
among the Federal bank supervisory agencies and that the logical place 
to vest such responsibility was the Federal Reserve. He indicated that 
he might even be willing to give up the supervision of State member 
banks, if necessary, as a quid pro quo. Another member (Governor 
Brimmer) expressed displeasure with several features of the legislation 
being drafted at the Treasury, particularly the proposal to fragment 
responsibility for administration of such legislation. 
Centralization 
\ 

170 
2/6/69 
-6-
of such responsibility was sufficiently important to him that he would 
prefer to have the responsibility placed with the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation or the Department of Justice rather than to see 
it dispersed. He suggested that the staff proceed with the drafting 
of proposed legislation to which the Board could react, since he found 
aspects of the Treasury legislation so unsatisfactory. Another member 
(Governor Daane) expressed somewhat more willingness to negotiate on 
the question of dispersal of administrative authority if everything 
else in connection with the legislation fell into place. He added 
that, unlike Governor Maisel, he would not want, under any circumstances, 
to give up the Federal Reserve's regulatory authority over State member 
banks. 
meaningful discussion in the absence of other members of the Board, 
particularly the Chairman, and it was generally agreed that the subject 
should be considered on the earliest feasible date when all members of 
the Board could participate in the deliberation, prior to which time 
the staff would endeavor to provide the Board with whatever up-to-date 
background material would appear to be helpful. 
Governor Daane then observed that it was difficult to have a 
The meeting then adjourned 
Secretary 

Item No. 
2/6/69 
UNITED STATES OF AI1ERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of ' 
SUMMIT AND ELIZABETH TRUST COMPANY
 
1 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
Clark State Bank and Trust Company
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1323(c)), an application by Summit 
and Elizabeth Tr ust Company, Summit, New Jersey, a State member bank 
of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank with Clark State Bank and Trust Company, 
Clark, New Jersey, under the charter and title of Summit and 
Elizabeth Trust Company. Notice of the proposed merger, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 

472 
-2-
IT 13 HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day follov/ing the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is e::tended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Rese rve Bank of Nev/ York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 6th day of February, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P* Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

473 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY SUMMIT AND ELIZABETH TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
CLARK STATE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, Summit, New Jersey 
("Summit Bank"), with total deposits of $119 million, has applied, 
pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(c)), for the Board's 
prior approval of the merger of that bank with Clark State Bank and 
Trust Company, Clark, New Jersey ("Clark Bank"), which has total 
deposits of about $16.5 million.V 
The banks would merge under the 
charter and name of Summit Bank, which is a member of the Federal 
Reserve System, As an incident to the merger, the two offices of 
Clark Bank would become branches of Summit Bank, increasing the 
number of its offices to eight. 
Competition. - Summit Bank operates its main office and 
two branch offices in the Summit-New Providence area, located in the 
northwestern corner of Union County (1960 population, 504,000). 
l 7 D e p o s i t figures are as of June 30, I960. 

474 
-2-
The Bank also operates three offices in the Elizabeth area, which 
adjoins the City of Newark. Elizabeth is located about 10 miles east 
of Summit in the northeastern portion of Union County, 
Clark Bank operates its main office and one branch office 
in Clark Township (population of about 18,000) in the south-central 
section of Union County, The main offices of Summit Bank and Clark 
Bank are approximately seven miles apart, and the nearest branches 
of the two banks are about six miles apart. 
In the areas separating Summit, Elizabeth and Clark 
Township, there are a number of other banking offices. Only nominal 
amounts of deposits and loans are derived by each of the two banks 
from the areas served by the other. 
Recently, the Governor of New Jersey signed into law a 
revision of the State
!s banking laws concerning branch banking and 
bank mergers. The new law, like the old, does not permit a bank 
to establish a branch office in any community wherein the home office 
of another bank is located. Consequently, the potential for increased 
competition between Summit Bank and Clark Bank is limited. However, 
the ne\7 law does, for the first time, permit a bank to establish a 
branch office in communities with populations of 7,500 or more in 
which are located only branch offices of other banks. Since Clark 
Township has a population in excess of 7,500, consummation of the 
merger, by eliminating the only home office located there, would open 
the Township to the establishment of branches by other banks of the 

4 7 5 
-2-
second of New Jersey
fs three banking districts. In this respect, the 
consummation of the proposal should eventually result in an increase 
in banking competition in the Clark Township area. 
Although an important competitive effect of the proposal 
would be in the area served by Clarlc Bank, it should be noted that 
Summit Bank and Clark Bank both operate in the greater Newark market. 
The resulting ban!:, however, would control only a small share of 
the market area deposits. Summit Bank ranks seventh of the 34 banks 
in the market, but holds only 3.3 per cent of the area deposits, 
while Clark Bank ranks 24th, with ,5 per cent of the deposits. The 
resulting bank would hold only 4.4 per cent. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition would 
be slightly favorable. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects« - The 
banking factors with respect to Summit Bank are reasonably satis-
factory. Clark Bank's capital position and earnings have been 
relatively low in recent years. Although such problems are being 
resolved to some extent without outside help, the merger would be 
of further aid in that the banking factors with respect to the 
resulting bank would be reasonably satisfactory. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - Clark Township 
is experiencing substantial residential, commercial, and industrial 
growth. Banks in the area presently offer extensive banking 

-4-
services, but the resulting bank, with a higher legal lending limit 
would be able to satisfy the growing demand for banking services 
in Clark Township more readily than could Clark Bank. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, 
the effect of the merger on competition would be slightly favorable 
The resulting bank would be in a better position to serve the con-
venience and needs of the Clark Township area. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
February 
6, 1969. 

477 
Item No. 2 
2/6/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 1 
THE OREGON BANK
 
1 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
Citizens Bank of Oregon
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S WC. 1828(c)), an application by The Oregon 
Bank, Portland, Oregon, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board
fs prior approval of the merger of that bank 
with Citizens Bank of Oregon, Lake Osuego, Oregon, under the charter 
and title of The Oregon Bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said 
Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 

478 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board
fs Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 6th day of February, 196S. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and 
Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

- ^ 479 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL -RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE OREGON BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
CITIZENS BANK OF OREGON 
STATEMENT 
fhe Oregon Bank, Portland, Oregon ("Oregon Bank"), with 
total deposits of. $66 million, has applied pursuant to the Bank Merger 
Act (12 UiS.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the merger 
of that bank With Citizens Bank of Oregon, Lake Oswego, Oregon 
("Citizens Bank")f which has total deposits of $23 million"^. The 
batiks would merge under the charter and name of Oregon Bank, which is 
a member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, 
the four offices of Citizens Bank would tecome branches of Oregon Bank, 
increasing the number of its offices to 17. 
Competition; - Oregon Bank is headquartered in downtown 
Portland (estimated population 385,000) and four of its bra'hches are 
located in the Portland metropolitan area, which contains considerable 
diversified industry and commerce. The bank's eight other offices are 
located considerable distances from the Portland area* 
Citizens iBank 
operates its main office and one branch in take Oswego (estimated popu-
lation 13,200), which is a residential community located about seven 
If As of June 29, 1968'* 
it 
tmm

| 
480 
-2-
miles south of downtown Portland. The bank's other two branches are 
located in communities to the southeast and southwest of Lake Oswego 
and are I3and 16 miles, respectively, from Oregon Bank's nearest office. 
The nearest offices of Oregon Bank and Citizens Bank are 
their head offices, which are about seven miles apart. There are 
several banking offices in the intervening area, mainly those of large 
banks that operate branches throughout the State. Many residents of 
the Lake Oswego area commute to work in Portland, which gives them the 
option of banking there. 
Oregon Bank derives less than three per cent of its deposits, 
and about seven per cent of its loans, from the area served by Citizens 
Bank. Comparable figures for Citizens Bank are not in the record, but 
the available evidence suggests that Citizens Bank probably derives 
even smaller percentages of its deposits and loans from the area served 
by Oregon Bank. While competition between Oregon Bank and Citizens Bank 
appears to be minimal, the proposed merger would, of course, eliminate 
such competition as does exist. 
The potential for the development of significant competition 
between the two banks is limited. The home-office-protection feature of 
State law precludes Oregon Bank from establishing a de novo branch in 
Lake Oswego. State law would not preclude the bank from establishing 
de novo branches in the other communities in which Citizens Bank has 
offices, but the size of those communities in relation to their existing 
banking offices makes the establishment of such offices unlikely. 

Citizens Bank is precluded by State law from establishing a de novo 
branch in Portland, until the bank increases its capital stock. 
Fifteen commercial banks operate 101 offices in the Portland 
metropolitan area; Oregon Bank and Citizens Bank rank fifth and seventh, 
respectively, in terms of area deposits held. The combined holdings of 
these two banks, however, equal only 3.6 per cent of total area deposits. 
The two largest banks hold about 80 per cent of total area deposits. 
The effect of the merger on competition would not be signifi-
cantly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Oregon Bank and Citizens Bank are 
reasonably satisfactory. However, the earnings of each bank are below 
the average for member banks in Oregon, and the capital of each bank 
needs to be augmented. Oregon Bank, with the addition of the offices 
and other resources of Citizens Bank, would have improved prospects „ 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The merger would 
affect banking convenience and needs only in the communities presently 
served by Citizens Bank. Trust services are not available in two of 
these communities. Oregon Bank would provide such services, together 
with a generally wider range of banking services than are conveniently 
available to residents of two of the three communities now served by 
Citizens Bank. 

— 
-4-
182 
1 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
proposed transaction would not have a significantly adverse effect on 
banking competition; at the same time, it would enhance the prospects 
for Oregon Bank, and benefit the banking convenience and needs of two 
of the communities presently served by Citizens Bank. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
February 6, 1969, 

183 
Item No. 3 
2/6/69 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 6, 1969 
Mr. James J. Preble, President, 
United Bank & Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
06103 
Dear Mr. Preble: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston has forwarded to the 
Board of Governors your letter of January 20, 1969, regarding 
completion of your 1968 trust asset report form. 
All State member banks with trust activities have been 
asked to complete their reports by March 1, 1969. 
In this way, 
the Board expects to make a timely analysis of the information 
and then correlate it with similar data collected from other in-
sured banks by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
In order to obtain significant 
overall data, the Board has not excused any bank from participating 
in the 1968 survey. However, in view of the special circumstances 
set forth in your letter, the Board has granted your bank an 
extension to June 1, 1969, for filing the above report. 
In requesting this information, the Board appreciated 
that extra effort would be required of the reporting banks. With 
this in mind, it is suggested that your bank may wish to report 
reasonable value estimates for any particular categories of 
accounts and/or assets whose market values are not readily de-
terminable. 
Possibly the values reported by your bank to the 
Patman Subcommittee Staff early in 1968 might serve as a basis 
for these estimates. 
It should be noted, also, that the Board's 
report instructions provide that book values (cost or inventory) 
should be used in certain circumstances where market values are 
not readily available. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

484 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
2/6/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 20, 1969 
Mr. John W. Woerner, 
Executive Vice President, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101. 
Dear Mr. Woerner: 
Recently the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
forwarded to the Board of Governors your request for an extension 
of time in which to complete the 1968 trust asset report form. 
This matter was subsequently discussed with you by Mr. Leavitt and 
it was agreed that the time within which the trust asset report form 
might be filed would be extended to May 1, 1969. Submission of the 
data by that time will permit inclusion in the aggregate statistics 
which we hope to publish in May or early June. 
When this information was requested the Board appreciated 
the extra effort that would be required of reporting banks. 
It is 
my understanding that Mr. Leavitt suggested that the burden might be 
reduced somewhat if you were to report reasonable estimates for any 
particular categories of accounts and/or assets whose market values 
are not readily determinable. 
Possibly the values reported by your 
bank to the Patman Subcommittee Staff early in 1968 might serve as 
a basis for these estimates. Furthermore, the Board's report 
instructions provide that book values (cost or inventory) should be 
used in certain circumstances where market values are not readily 
available. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
. I 
4&c 
Item No. 5 
2/6/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 20, 1969 
Mr. H. Woodward McDowell, 
Executive Vice President, 
The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109. 
Dear Mr. McDowell: 
Recently the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
forwarded to the Board of Governors your request for an extension 
of time in which to complete the 1968 trust asset report form. 
This matter was subsequently discussed with you by Mr. Leavitt and 
it was agreed that the time within which the trust asset report form 
might be filed would be extended to May 1, 1969. Submission of the 
data by that time will permit inclusion in the aggregate statistics 
which we hope to publish in May or early June. 
When this information was requested the Board appreciated 
the extra effort that would be required of reporting banks. 
It is 
my understanding that Mr. Leavitt suggested that the burden might be 
reduced somewhat if you were to report reasonable estimates for any 
particular categories of accounts and/or assets whose market values 
are not readily determinable. 
Possibly the values reported by your 
bank to the Patman Subcommittee Staff early in 1968 might serve as 
a basis for these estimates. Furthermore, the Board's report 
instructions provide that book values (cost or inventory) should be 
used in certain circumstances where market values are not readily 
available. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
