MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 17, 1968 

1 4 0 6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director t Division 
of Examinations 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Doyle and Porter of 
the Legal Division 
Mr. Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Lyon of the Division of Examinations 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approva1 was given 
t o
 the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
r e
Port on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 

1 4 0 7 
A/17/68 
-2-
Lynri Safe Deposit & Trust Company, Lynn, Massachusetts, a subsidiary 
of Baystate Corporation, into Beverly Trust Company, Beverly, Massa-
chusetts, also a subsidiary of Baystate. The conclusion stated that 
there was no effective competition between the two institutions and 
that the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Mar ine Corporation. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting its action on March 26, 1968, approving the 
application of The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to 
acquire shares of The Germantown State Bank, Germantown, Wisconsin. 
Copies of the order and statement are attached under Item No. 1. 
Distribution of mutual fund shares abroad. Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, had advised the 
Board of certain activities proposed to be undertaken by Morgan & Cie. 
S.A., a French subsidiary. 
In brief, a mutual fund was to be estab-
wished in the Netherlands Antilles, the shares of which were to be 
s
old only to nonresident aliens of the United States but the portfolio 
of which was to consist primarily of U.S. securities. Morgan Guaranty 
Trust Company would act as investment advisor to the mutual fund and 
as custodian of the fund's cash and securities, but it would not hold 
a
ny shares of the fund directly or indirectly. Morgan & Cie. would 
! 
act as agent for the fund, providing in Paris various limited services 
t o
 prospective customers. 

4/17/68 
-3-
A staff memorandum dated April 10, 1968, which presented the 
legal and policy questions involved, pointed out that some precedent 
existed for activities of this kind. 
In particular, there was a close 
Parallel to activities approved in 1966 for a subsidiary of United 
States Trust Company of New York City. 
It remained the conclusion of 
the Legal Division, as previously expressed in a memorandum on another 
case dated December 11, 1967, that Edge corporations and their subsid-
iaries could not legally engage abroad in the underwriting, sale, or 
distribution of equity securities. The Division of Examinations remained 
of the opinion, as previously expressed in a memorandum of December 20, 
1967, that it would be appropriate for the Board to examine applications 
involving "underwriting" on a case-by-case basis. The Division recommended 
that the Board interpose no objection to the proposed activities of 
Morgan & Cie. 
The staff memorandum also pointed out that foreign branches of 
certain U.S. banks had apparently acted for some time as agents in the 
distribution of foreign mutual fund shares. The precise activities of the 
foreign branches were not fully known, but it was suggested that a further 
investigation be made because violation of section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act might be involved. 
It was also suggested that the matter 
m
ight appropriately be considered by the Interagency Coordinating Committee 
°n Bank Regulation. 

1409 
4/17/68 
-4-
All of the members of the Board except Governor Robertson 
expressed the view that no objection should be interposed to the 
proposed activities of Morgan & Cie. They cited the limited nature 
of such activities, the precedent that had been established, and the 
fact that the activities would be harmonious with the policy objectives 
of encouraging investment by foreigners in U.S. securities. 
Governor Robertson agreed that from the standpoint of policy 
it would be desirable to encourage foreign investment in U.S. secu-
rities. However, according to the Legal Division the law did not 
appear to permit activities of the kind proposed by Morgan & Cie., 
and in consequence he did not see that the Board had a choice. 
He 
suggested the issuance for comment of a tentative interpretation 
incorporating the views of the Legal Division. 
All members of the Board agreed that the foreign branch acti-
vities referred to in the staff memorandum deserved further investiga-
tion to establish the facts, with the thought that eventually the matter 
m
*-ght be taken up with the Interagency Coordinating Committee in an 
e
ffort to achieve a uniform position. 
Accordingly, with Governor Robertson dissenting, it was agreed 
to interpose no objection to the proposed activities of Morgan & Cie. 
was understood that the question of the foreign branch activities 
would be studied further on the basis of investigation by the staff. 

1\10 
4/17/68 
-5-
A copy of the letter sent to Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation is attached as Item No. 2. 
Notice of withdrawal of deposits. A potential time deposit 
customer of The First National Bank of Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, 
had suggested several complicated proposals for inclusion in 90-day 
deposit contracts that would provide for notice of withdrawals on 
various dates and including various deposits. The bank and its counsel 
had asked the Board to rule on the legality of the proposals. 
In a memorandum dated April 10, 1968, the Legal Division 
concluded that three of the proposals would fail to meet the require-
ments of Regulation Q , Payment of Interest on Deposits, unless provi-
sions were added to prevent the withdrawal of any amounts that had not 
been on deposit for 90 days. The fourth proposal apparently would not 
violate the regulation as a 90-day "freeze" on all deposits would always 
be effective. 
Board members expressed agreement with the conclusions of the 
Legal Division, and a reply to the member bank embodying those conclu-
sions was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Board members also suggested that a general interpretation be 
issued concerning questions such as those that had been presented by 
t
he member bank in this instance. 
It was understood that such an inter-
pretation would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

7 
4/17/68 
-4-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Incident at St. Louis Bank. The Board had been informed at an 
earlier meeting (April 12) with regard to an unlawful transaction appar-
ently attempted by Robert Parish, an employee (now suspended) of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, and a memorandum containing further 
facts had been sent to the Board under date of April 12, 1968. 
At this meeting Mr. Solomon summarized developments in the 
matter, including the fact that a Board examiner had reviewed the steps 
taken by the Reserve Bank's Audit Department in the circumstances and 
w
a s satisfied with their adequacy. 
In the examiner's opinion it was 
reasonable to believe that the transaction in question was the only one 
0 1
 an illegal nature that had been attempted by the employee. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish two additional branches 
in Colombia, to be located in Barranquilla 
and Medellin, respectively; and an additional 
branch in Greece, to be located in Thessaloniki. 
A letter was sent today to Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association, San 
Francisco, California, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish an addi-
tional branch in England, to be located in 
Manchester. 

8 
4/17/68 
-4-
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Alan E. Pankratz as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Inter-
national Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,959, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Sandra J. Miller as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,108, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Alice Faye Proctor as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Lorman C. Trueblood, Senior Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $21,469 to $22,082 per annum, effective May 5, 1968. 
Helmut F. Wendel, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $16,897 to $17,425 per annum, effective May 5, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Frederick Massey, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business April 17, 1968. 
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Louis S. Zeller, Systems Analyst, Division of Research and Statistic 
to teach a programming course at the Graduate School of the U.S. Depart-
ment of Agriculture. 
James Clark, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, to work 
as a parking attendant on a part-time basis. 

1413 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
I t e m 
l 
4/17/68* 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
9 
In the Matter of the Application of 
T
HE MARINE CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
approval of the acquisition of 80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Germantown State Bank, Germantown, 
Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 
3
(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and 
Action 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an 
a
PPlication by The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wiscpnsin, for the Board's 
P
r
ior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Germantown State Bank, Germantown, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n
°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banks for the 
S t
ate of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. No objection 
t o
 approval of the application has been received from the Commissioner. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 25, 1967 (32 Federal Register 16174), pro-
v
iding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
w
ith respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
t o
 the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
tl
*e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order unless such time shall be 
e x
tended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
t o
 delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 17th day of April, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
: .' 
s.. 
I 
J • 
' 
' 
' 
; 
•
•
•
'
•
.
' 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1 4 1 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE MARINE CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, FOR APPROVAL OF THE 
ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF THE GERMANTOWN STATE BANK, 
GERMANTOWN, WISCONSIN. 
STATEMENT 
The Marine Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a 
r e
8istered bank holding company, has applied 
to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company. Act of 1956 ("the 
A c t
" ) , for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
t h
e voting shares of The Germantown State Bank, Germantown, Wisconsin 
1/ 
("Bank"), a nonmember insured bank. As of June 30, 1967, 
Applicant 
c
°ntrolled 11 subsidiary banks which operated a total of 14 offices with 
a
8gregate total deposits of $498 million. Bank is located in the Village 
o f
 Germantown, Washington County, Wisconsin, about 17 miles northwest 
°f downtown Milwaukee, and directly north of Menomonee Falls, and 
°Perates one office with total deposits of $3.4 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
b
V section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
t o
 
Commissioner of Banks for the State of Wisconsin, and his views and 
^commendation were requested. No objection to approval of the application 
1 ) 9 8
 been received from the Commissioner. 
^ 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are of this date. 

• 1416 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
c
«e Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly or 
v
°uld be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 
°
r
 to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of 
the 
United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect 
^hich, in any section of the country, may be substantially to lessen 
c
°mpetition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner • 
W o u l d 
b
e in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anti-
competitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in 
e
 Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
t
^e convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the 
B°ard is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
f
esources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
c
°ncerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
inking organizations in the State, of which six are holding companies, 
c
°ntrol deposits of $2.7 billion or 38.5 per cent of deposits in the State. 
®
ar
*k holding companies operating in the State of Wisconsin are 10 in 
2/ 
Prober 
and control 47 banks (78 offices) with total deposits of $2.5 
Dillon or approximately 36 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. 
^PPlicant controls 7.04 per cent of deposits in the State and, on the 
^
a s
i s of deposits, is the second largest banking organization in the State. 
^w — 
Three 
of these holding companies are headquartered in Minnesota. They 
4 
(1) First Bank Stock Corporation and (2) Northwest Bancorporation, both 
n
 Minneapolis and (3) Otto Bremer Foundation in St. Paul. They control 
e s
Pectively $25.5 million, $37.2 million and $20.0 million of deposits 
n
 Wisconsin banks. 

1417 
-3-
T
he addition of Bank's $3.4 million of deposits to Applicant's system would 
increase its control of deposits to 7.09 per cent. 
The Milwaukee Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA") 
deludes the counties of Milwaukee, Ozaukee, Waukesha, and Washington. Of 
four holding companies operating in the SMSA, Applicant ranks third 
^ith control of approximately 14 per cent of the deposits in the area. 
Consummation of the proposal herein would cause Applicant's control of total 
d e
Posits in this area to be increased by one-tenth of one percentage point. 
c
°ntrol of such deposits by the four holding companies represented in the 
SMSA would be similarly increased. 
In Washington County, Bank controls less than 5 per cent of total 
d e
Posits and ranks 7th among the 11 banks in the area. Upon consummation 
o f
 the proposal, Bank would be the first holding company subsidiary in the 
c
°unty, 
3/ 
Bank's primary service area, 
as described in the application, 
the small rural dairy farm community of Germantown and the surrounding 
a
8Ucultural area encompassing Germantown township, an area estimated to 
delude 7 ,565 people. The evidence shows that the area has had a significant 
8*ovth 
in population since 1950 and is expected to experience further 
5 u
bstantial growth in the next few years. Significant commercial develop-
m G t
*t i 8 a i s o projected for the area. Applicant reports that Germantown 
h a
s made plans for an industrial park; another privately-owned industrial 
^ 
The area from which Applicant estimates that Bank derives more than 
5
 Per cent of deposits of individuals, partnerships, and corporations. 

1418 
- 4 -
P
a
rk has already been developed; a professional services office center 
is under construction; and the establishment of one or more shopping 
centers is under consideration. Bank is the only banking office located 
l n
 its designated primary service area. Applicant lists 12 banks as 
competing in this area and states that Bank, with 2.8 per cent of total 
deposits of such banks, ranks 10th among them. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of Bank 
W o
uld have a negligible impact upon the degree of concentration of bank-
ing 
resources in the State and in the SMSA. Consummation of the proposal 
not cause the banking alternatives in Washington County or the Bank's 
Primary service area to be reduced nor cause an increase in the concen-
tration of 
deposits already existing in the banking organizations in those 
a r
eas. On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the proposed 
filiation 
would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any 
combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal on existing or potential competition, the Board finds that these 
considerations present no bar to approval of the application. No office 
°f A p p i i c a n t » s subsidiary banks is located in the primary service area 
o f
 Bank or competes with it to any significant extent. Only three offices 
0 f
 Applicant's subsidiaries are reported to derive any deposit business 
from Bank's primary service area, and such deposits aggregate less than 
2
 P
e
r cent of the deposits that Bank derives from its service area. The 

offices of Applicant's subsidiaries that are nearest to Bank are the 
B
*ookfield branch of the Waukesha County Marine Bank in Pewaukee and the 
sole office of Capital Marine Bank in Milwaukee. These offices are, 
respectively, 10-1/2 miles south and 15-1/2 miles southeast of Bank. 
the area between Bank and each of said offices are located the main 
offices of two banks in Menomonee Falls. Also, there are six other banks 
located in the area between Bank and the Capital Marine Bank. On the 
record before the Board, it is concluded that there is no meaningful 
Present competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries; and it 
a
Ppears unlikely that any significant future competition between them 
w
°uld be foreclosed by the proposed affiliation. 
As stated earlier,, there are no other banks located in Bank's 
Primary service area, and, in terms of total deposits, Bank ranks 10th 
am
°ng the 12 banks competing in the area. The institutions that compete 
Bank and are smaller than it are Richfield State Bank ($2 million in 
d e
Posits), located about 5 miles northwest of Bank in Richfield, Wisconsin 
a i l d
 Bank of Jackson ($1.6 million in deposits) located about 8 miles 
n
°
r
th of Bank in Jackson, Wisconsin. According to Applicant, less than 
5 0
 Per cent of potential customers in Bank's primary service area are cus-
tomers of Bank. Farmers and Merchants Bank, regarded as Bank's closest 
a n d
 largest competitor, is located about A.5 miles south of Bank in 
Menomonee Falls and has about $30 million in total deposits. 
Bank 
'••"v."':'.; 
Q
P P e a r s to be a relatively weak competitor in 
an expanding market. 
An examination of the facts presented with respect to Bank's 
competitors indicates that more aggressive competition from Bank is not 

1420 
-6-
likely to impair the competitive vigor of existing institutions serving 
. 
- 
. 
. 
. 
\ 
the area and may stimulate competition in Bank's primary service area. 
The evidence before the Board indicates that there is no reasonable 
likelihood that the acquisition herein would preclude future competition 
in any relevant area. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a 
m
°nopoly nor in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section 
o f
 the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is considered 
generally satisfactory. 
Bank has enjoyed a rapid growth in deposits in the last five 
y e
ars. Although Bank's capital has not kept pace with its growth, 
applicant has furnished assurances that it will provide Bank with growth 
C a
Pital as needed. 
The board of directors of Applicant consists of 21 members, 
a
 Majority of whom are officers or directors of the various subsidiary 
b a
nks. The 13 officers of Applicant are also officers or directors of 
t h e
 subsidiary banks. Applicant's management is regarded as experienced 
and satisfactory. 
Management of Bank is under the direction of President Schramm 
W l l
° is considered to be a competent banker. Though he has expressed a 
d e
s i r e to be relieved of his responsibilities, he has agreed to remain 
M M ? 
mm^rn

w
ith the Bank until 1970. Applicant has a well-established management 
Gaining program and should be able to assist Bank in meeting the mana-
gerial requirements 
presented by the passage of time and by the Bank's 
growth. 
Applicant's subsidiary banks have shown generally satisfactory 
e a
rnings and, inasmuch as Applicant's income depends to a major degree 
0 ( 1
 such earnings, Applicant's prospects for earnings are considered 
f a
vorable. The prospects of Bank appear to be good, particularly in the 
^ght of the residential and commercial expansion that is forecast for 
t h e
 Germantown area and the fact that Applicant will be in a position to 
a
ssist Bank to expand its facilities and raise additional capital. 
The Board concludes that the considerations relating to the 
b a
nking factors, as reflected in the record herein, are satisfactory, 
a r
e consistent with approval, and weigh somewhat in favor thereof. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - As indicated 
e a r
lier, significant residential and commercial development is expected 
t o
 occur in the next few years in Bank's designated primary service area. 
S u
ch development is likely to generate a demand for better and more 
e x
tensive local banking services. Applicant proposes to assist Bank to 
G x
Pand its facilities, provide additional capital, furnish personnel 
e x
Perienced in consumer credit and mortgage lending, and assist with 
V a
*ious operational procedures such as credit analysis and computer 
Pr
°gramming of accounts. Although no banking needs in the area appear 
be unserved, Applicant's assistance to Bank would enable it to provide 

1 4 2 2 
-6-
- 
I 
? a
 broader range of services, make such services more immediately available 
to the local community, and become a stronger and more aggressive competi-
t o
*» to the benefit of the community, particularly if the area realizes 
the business development and population growth that are anticipated. 
The Board concludes that the evidence relating to the convenience 
and needs of the area is consistent with and weighs somewhat in favor of 
a
PProval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
c
°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Action 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
®hould be approved. 
A
Pril 
17, 1968. 

ifiiP 
1 4 2 3 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
4/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 17, 1968. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
' • \ I J 
<Nt$U 'i 
< V - 
. 
Gentlemen: 
This is in reply to your letter of January 5, 1968, 
in which you advised the 3oard of Governors of certain pro-
posed activities of Morgan & Cie. S.A., a subsidiary of your 
Corporation. 
It is understood that Morgan & Cie. is to act as 
an agent for a mutual fund to be established in the Nether-
lands Antilles, the shares of which would be sold exclusively 
to nonresident aliens and whose investments would consist 
primarily of securities of United States issuers. As agent, 
Morgan & Cie. would provide information, subscription forms, 
and other assistance to prospective investors in the mutual 
fund. 
•A 
) ; 
The Board interposes no objections to the proposed 
activities of Morgan & Cie. as outlined in your letter. 
i'iiv* 
»•' 4 « v. 
^OU T 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
R- 
. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 4 2 4 
Item No. 3 
4/17/68 
" I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
T H E 
B O A R D 
, 1968 
Mr. Robert A . Nyere, Vice President, 
The First National Bank of Boston, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Nyere: 
This refers to your letter of March 12, 1968, requesting 
a ruling with respect to the propriety of a proposed program that 
would permit the withdrawal of funds on various dates from a time 
deposit that requires 90 days written notice for withdrawal. 
For purposes of illustration, we may assume a deposit of 
funds and simultaneously the giving of a 90-day notice of withdrawal 
of all or a portion of such deposit. This would qualify the deposit 
to receive interest at the 5 per cent rate for the 90-day period. 
However, if the contract calls for alternate withdrawals 
°n the 91st, 92nd, 93rd, etc. days, the deposit would be defined by 
section 217.1(g) of Regulation Q as a "multiple maturity time deposit", 
as it would be payable at the depositor's option on more than one date. 
Under section 217.6(b) of the regulation, a rate of 5 per cent may not 
be paid on a multiple maturity deposit unless "90 days or more" have 
lapsed "after the last preceding date upon which it might have been 
Paid", in the above example (as in proposals enumerated 1, 2, and 3 
in your letter), there would not be 90 days between the various dates 
the funds could be withdrawn, and therefore the 5 per cent interest 
r
ate is not permitted after the 90th day. From then on, the deposit 
w
ould be payable on demand and accrue no additional interest. 
Funds subsequently deposited in the account would constitute 
new deposits and must remain on deposit for at least 90 days to qualify 
for interest of 5 per cent. The multiple maturity rules would apply 
e
qually to such deposits. The 90-day notice given simultaneously with 
t
he opening of the account would have no relation to funds subsequently 
deposited unless the contract provided for a 90-day "freeze" on such 
a d
ditional deposits before withdrawal. Otherwise a customer could make 
a
 token initial deposit and add substantial amounts shortly before the 
9
°-day notice elapsed, receiving interest on funds actually on deposit 
only a few days. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F 
April 24 

Mr. Robert A . Nyere 
- 2 -
1 4 2 5 
A proposal to give notice of withdrawal at a definite date 
for "all funds on deposit" or in a "fixed dollar amount" exceeding the 
amount of funds the depositor contemplates having on deposit in the 
account at any time would not be effective to permit the payment of 
interest at 5 per cent unless such notice were qualified by a proviso 
that only amounts which actually had been on deposit for at least 
90 days may be withdrawn. 
For the reasons indicated, the first three proposals enumera-
ted in your letter would not meet the requirements of Regulation Q, 
since at least 90 days must elapse between the various dates a specified 
Part of the deposit may be withdrawn in order to receive interest at 
the maximum rate of 5 per cent. The fourth proposal would not seem to 
v
iolate the regulation as no withdrawals could be made of a sum not on 
deposit for at least 90 days after the date of deposit or 90 days after 
the last preceding date on which such sum might have been paid. This 
Would appear to be true of the original deposit and any funds added to 
it. 
In addition, it should be understood that no funds available 
in less than 30 days may be classified as a time deposit, and a multiple 
time deposit with funds available at intervals of less than 90 days may 
not pay interest in excess of 4 per cent. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
