MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 30, 1972 

1361 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 30, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of . 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

1382 
5/30/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on May 25, 1972, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bank of 
Holiday, Holiday, Florida, for admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved, for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of liability 
to pay deposits made in the Bloomfield office of New Britain Bank and 
Trust Company, New Britain, Connecticut, by Bloomfield State Bank, 
Bloomfield, Connecticut. The conclusion read as follows: 
The acquisition of the Bloomfield office of New Britain 
Bank and Trust Company by Bloomfield State Bank (in organiza-
tion) would not eliminate any existing competition but would 
eliminate some potential for competition. The overall effect 
of the proposed transaction on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on May 16, 1972, of (1) the applications of Midland Mortgage Corporation 
and Port Huron Financial Company, both of Detroit, Michigan, to become 
bank holding companies; and (2) the application by Midland Mortgage 

1383 
5/30/72 
-2-
Company to continue to engage in the activities of a mortgage company. 
Copies of the order and of the concurring statement of Governor Brimmer 
are attached under Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the appointment of Mr. James V. 
Vergari as a Special Consultant to the Steering Committee on the Payments 
Mechanism, commencing July 1, 1972, and terminating approximately 
August 31, 1972, on the terms set forth in a memorandum dated May 17, 
1972, from the Office of Executive Director. 
The Board unanimously approved the nomination of Mr. David 
Kopf of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Mr. Robert L. Sammons 
of the Board's staff to undertake a three-month mission to Thailand, 
with the understanding that the Agency for International Development 
and the Thai Government would make the final determination as to which 
man would undertake the assignment. A copy of the letter sent to the 
New York Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Department of 
Housing and Urban Development designating Mr. Brenton C. Leavitt of 
the Board's staff to represent the Board in meetings with representa-
tives of other Government agencies regarding equal housing opportunity. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
United Missouri Bancshares. In a memorandum dated May 11, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 

5 
5/30/72 
-2-
of the application of United Missouri Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Manufacturers and Mechanics Bank of 
Kansas City, Kansas City, Missouri. 
After discussion during which additional information relating 
to the application was requested, it was understood that the matter 
would be considered further at a later date. 
Report on competitive factors. In a memorandum dated May 12, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency 
a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed consoli-
dation of Colonial National Bank, Haddonfield, New Jersey, and Elmer 
Bank and Trust Company, Elmer, New Jersey; in the conclusion the compet-
'...',"» 
J..;' 
. 
,.•> 
. J C ; .. 
; .,; 
f. 
> ... 
; » 
itive factors were judged to be slightly adverse. The Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York and Philadelphia, however, had recommended a conclusion 
of adverse with respect to the competitive factors in this case. 
After discussion during which a preference emerged for a con-
clusion of adverse with regard to the competitive factors, the Board 
unanimously approved the report in a form in which the conclusion 
read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed consolidation of Colonial National 
Bank, Haddonfield, and Elmer Bank and Trust Company, a subsidiary 
of Midlantic Banks, Inc., Newark, would eliminate little, if any, 
competition between Haddonfield Bank and Elmer Bank and might 
increase the competitive effectiveness of Haddonfield Bank with 

1385 
5/30/72 
-2-
the larger Camden and Philadelphia banks. However, Midlantic has 
the financial capability to enter the Camden market by alternative 
means and as far as potential competition the effect of the proposal 
would be adverse. 
Early withdrawal of funds. Commercial banks and their customers 
had entered into deposit agreements with maturities exceeding one year 
that provided for the payment of interest only at maturity. 
Subsequently, 
certain changes in Internal Revenue Service regulations had removed the 
anticipated tax benefits to be derived from these deferred interest 
time deposit accounts and had subjected banks to more elaborate report-
ing procedures for Federal income taxes. Withdrawals from time deposit 
accounts were permitted only in an emergency, and after forfeiture of 
interest. In the light of the change in IRS regulations, however, the 
American Bankers Association had requested that the Board permit, with-
out imposition of an interest penalty, conversion of existing deferred 
interest arrangements into current interest arrangements, and early 
withdrawal by depositors to pay tax on the interest that must be reported. 
In addition, a request had been received from an individual asking that 
the depositors be permitted to terminate such deposit arrangements entirely. 
In a memorandum dated May 15, 1972, the Legal Division recommended that 
the Board grant the requests. 
After discussion it was agreed that, while the Board favored the 
staff recommendation in principle, the matter would be considered by 
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation prior to 
further consideration by the Board. 

138S 
5/30/72 
-6-
Community welfare activities. On May 2, 1972, the Board consid-
ered a proposed new interpretation of community welfare activities of 
bank holding companies that are permissible under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. At that time several changes were sug-
gested in the proposal and it was agreed that staff would revise the 
proposed interpretation in the light of views expressed. 
With a memorandum dated May 24, 1972, the Legal Division pre-
sented a revised interpretation of community welfare activities that 
reflected suggestions made at the Board's May 2 discussion. 
After discussion the Board unanimously approved the interpre-
tation, a copy of which is attached under Item No. 5. 
Special counsel fees. In a memorandum dated March 28, 1972, 
the Legal Division had presented a request from the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston for Board approval of payment by the Boston Bank of 
additional special counsel fees to the law firm of Ely, Bartlett, Brown 
& Proctor in connection with the Bank's new building project. In view 
of several questions subsequently raised by members of the Board, a 
supplemental memorandum dated May 17, 1972, was prepared by the Legal . 
Division. 
In the May 17 memorandum, the Legal Division noted that the 
Boston Bank had reduced the amount of funds requested in connection 
with special counsel fees. The Division recommended that the Board 
approve the modified request, and that the Boston Bank be put on notice 

13&7 
5/30/72 
-7-
that any future request to increase the authorization for special counsel 
fees in excess of the $200,000 now authorized would receive most care-
ful scrutiny by the Board. In addition, Mr. Norman T. Byrnes, Senior 
Vice President of the Boston Bank, and a former partner in the Ely 
firm, should be instructed to terminate at the earliest possible date 
his relationship with the Ely firm by arranging for a final accounting 
of his interest in the firm. 
During discussion general agreement was expressed with regard 
to the staff's recommendation. However, concern was also expressed 
with respect to the Boston Bank's continued retention of the Ely firm 
in light of Mr. Byrnes' previous position as a partner in that firm. 
It was believed that the continued retention of the Ely firm might give 
the appearance of impropriety even where none existed. 
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the staff recommenda-
tion, with the understanding that the Board's views regarding the Boston 
Bank's continued retention of the Ely firm would be communicated to 
the Bank. It was also understood that separate letters would be sent 
to Mr. Byrnes and to Mr. James S. Duesenberry, Chairman of the Boston. 
Bank, reflecting the Board's decision and views in this matter. Copies 
of the letters subsequently sent to Messrs. Duesenberry and Byrnes 
are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
Pending legislation. In a memorandum dated May 26, 1972, the 
Division of International Finance and Mr. Rippey reported that the Board 

1388 
5/30/72 
-2-
had been asked to submit a statement for the record concering its views 
on H.R. 14412, a bill that would establish a Council on International 
Economic Policy in the Executive Office of the President. -One of the 
members of the Council would be the Chairman of the Board of Governors. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter to Chairman Ashley of 
the Subcommittee on International Trade of the House Banking and Currency 
Committee responding to the request. 
After discussion during which several changes were agreed upon, 
the Board unanimously approved the sending of a letter to Chairman Ashley 
in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
( 

10 
Item No. 1 
5/30/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
May 30, 1972 
Organization Committee 
Bank of Holiday 
Holiday, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of Bank of Holiday, Holiday, 
Florida, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective 
if andwhen the bank opens for business under appropriate State 
authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct is business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the. safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other cor-
porate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $960,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$288,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called-to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 

Bank of Holiday 
- 
2 
-
1380 
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. The board of directors should also adopt, at the same time, 
a resolution ratifying the action which has been taken in the bank's 
behalf in making application for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A certified copy of each resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Arrangements will there-
upon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve balance, 
and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the 
bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosure 

1331 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No0 2 
5/30/72 
MIDLAND MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
AND PORT HURON FINANCIAL COMPANY 
Order Approving Action to Become Bank Holding Companies 
and Request for Determination under 4(c)(8) 
Midland Mortgage Corporation and its wholly-owned sub-
sidiary Port Huron Financial Company, both of Detroit, Michigan, 
have applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to become bank holding 
companies through the acquisition by the latter of 85 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Peoples Bank of Port Huron, Port Huron, 
Michigan ("Bank"). 
Midland Mortgage Corporation ("Midland Mortgage") has also 
applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(a)(8)) to continue to engage in the activities 
of mortgage banking after becoming a bank holding company. Such 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)):' 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accor^ 
dance with §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the applications 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified 
in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Midland Mortgage, a small mortgage banking firm with its 
sole office located in the City of Detroit, engages in the origination 
and servicing of first mortgage loans on real estate. 

-2-
1392 
mainly in the Detroit metropolitan area. With a mortgage servicing 
portfolio of only $10,25 million as of December 31, 1971, Midland 
Mortgage is unranked among the three hundred largest mortgage banking 
firms in the country. However, through common ownership of individuals, 
Midland Mortgage is affiliated with the James T. Barnes and Company, 
Detroit, the country's 14th largest mortgage banking company with 
a servicing portfolio of $794 million as of June 30, 1971. Because 
of this close relationship with the Barnes Company, Applicant has been 
able to assume part of the Barnes Company's construction loan business. 
Consequently, Applicant projects an increase in its mortgage loan 
originations from a present volume of under $1 million annually to a 
1972 volume in excess of $20 million. 
Bank ($63.4 million deposits as of June 30, 1971), located 
approximately 60 miles northeast of Detroit, is the second largest of 
six banks operating in the St. Clair County market, and holds 24.9 per 
cent of market deposits; the largest bank in the market holds 41.4 per 
cent of market deposits. Since Bank originates mortgages only in St. 
Clair County, and Applicant has no present banking subsidiaries and 
generally limits its mortgage activities to the Detroit area, consum-
mation of the proposal would not eliminate any existing competition in 
either the commercial banking or mortgage banking markets. Furthermore, 
even though Applicant could expand its mortgage activities into the St. 
Clair market, the volume of mortgage business in that market does not 
make it particularly attractive for de novo entry; nor does it appear 
likely that Bank could successfully expand its banking activites into 

14 
-2-
the Detroit area. The Board concludes, therefore, that the proposed 
acquisition would have no substantially adverse effects on potential com-
petition in either product market. 
The management of both Applicant and Bank are regarded as 
satisfactory. The present financial, condition of Applicant is considered 
satisfactory; however, as a result of consummation of the present pro-
posal, Applicant will incur significant acquisition debt. The presence 
of significant acquisition debt in newly formed holding companies is of 
concern to the Board, but the record indicates that such debt can be 
adequately serviced out of the projected earnings of the holding company 
without unduly endangering the financial stability of Bank. Additionally, 
because of the need to strengthen the capital position of Bank, a portion 
of the acquisition debt incurred will be used to purchase Bank's stock 
and capital notes to augment immediately Bank's capital position. Con-
sequently, as a result of its affiliation with Applicant and the injection 
of additional capital funds, the financial condition of Bank will be en-
hanced, and its prospects for growth improved. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal will not have any immediate 
significant effects on convenience and needs. The major banking needs 
of the St. Clair area appear to be met by the existing banking institutions. 
However, because of its improved financial condition, Bank should become 
a more effective competitor to the other area banks. Furthermore, 
affiliation with Applicant and permitting Applicant to continue to engage 
in the activities of a mortgage company will enable Bank to engage more 

1334 
-4-
actively in mortgage lending in the St. Clair market and enable Appli-
cant to continue to participate in serving the mortgage needs of the 
Detroit area. These considerations are consistent with, and lend 
some weight toward approval. 
On the basis of the foregoing and other facts reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the considerations affect-
ing the competitive factors under section 3(c) of the Act and the 
balance of the public interest factors the Board must consider under 
section 4(c)(8) in permitting a holding company to engage in an activity 
on the basi3 that it is closely related: to banking both favor approval 
of Applicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
summarized above. This determination is subject to the conditions 
set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority 
to require such modification or termination of the activities of a hold-
ing company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
thereof. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 

1395 
-5-
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
V 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective May 30, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Maisel. 

1336 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIBER 
I concur in the Board's action approving both the applica-
tion of Ilidland Mortgage Corporation to become a bank holding company 
and to continue thereafter to engage in the activities of a mortgage 
company. However, I want to call attention to other financial holdings 
or interests of the owners of Midland Mortgage Corporation in Michigan 
which could be cause for concern to the Board in future proposals 
involving this Applicant. 
Both Midland Mortgage Corporation and James T. Barnes and 
Company are currently owned and controlled by members of the Barnes 
family. In addition, members of that family have recently indicated 
an intent to acquire a substantial interest in the Bank of the Common-
wealth ($991.0 million deposits), the fourth largest bank in Detroit 
and the fifth largest bank in Michigan. In view of the extensive mortgage 
banking activities of James T. Barnes and Company and Bank of the Common-
wealth in the Detroit market, such a purchase may raise competitive 
problems. Since the Bank Holding Company Act is not applicable to banks 
purchased solely by individuals, the Board's permission to acquire the 
bank would not be required. On the other hand, any effort to bring Bank 
of the Commonwealth under the same corporate structure as Midland Mortgage 
or James T. Barnes and Company would require Board approval. Such a 
proposal would, in my view, raise serious competitive problems in the 
Detroit area which would require Board analysis in light of the statutory 
factors set forth in the Bank Holding Company Act. 
May 30, 1972. 

BOARD OF GDVERNDR5 
1337 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/30/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D H E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O O A K D 
June 2, 1972 
Dear Scott: 
On May 30, the Board considered the request of 
the New York Bank for approval of the nomination of David 
Kopf to undertake a three-month mission to Thailand for 
the Agency for International Development, The Board also 
considered the recommendation from the Board's staff that 
the name of Mr, Robert L. Sammons be submitted to AID for 
this assignment. 
It was decided that both names should be sub-
mitted to AID along with the relevant information about 
the qualifications of the two candidates that would enable 
AID and the Government of Thailand to make a choice. 
We shall notify AID directly of the possible 
availability of Mr. Sammons for this assignment,, 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Mr. Scott Pardee 
Assistant Vice President 
Foreign Affairs 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
33 Liberty Street 
New York, New York 10045 
* 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
1.398 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
5/30/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
n r n n i A L 
C O R R E S P P N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
May 31, 1972 
The Honorable George W. Romney, Secretary 
Department of Housing and Urban Development 
Washington, D. C. 20410 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
As you may know, the Federal Reserve System has initiated steps 
in support of nondiscriminatory real estate financing in connection 
with its member bank supervisory responsibilities. We wish to 
continue to cooperate with other Government agencies in carrying 
out a program which will achieve the objectives of the Fair Housing 
Law. 
Although we believe that the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System is not included among those departments ar.d agencies 
subject to Section 808 (d) of the Fair Housing Law, we are eager to 
comply with the spirit of that legislation and to do all we can to 
make the work of your Department and other agencies a complete suc-
cess. Therefore, in accordance with your letter of April 12 to 
Chairman Burns and our subsequent conversations with Assistant 
Secretary Samuel J. Simmons, the Board wishes to designate 
Mr. Brenton C. Leavitt, Deputy Director of the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, to meet with representatives of other 
agencies to share ideas and formulate a common effort in support 
of Equal Housing Opportunity. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

• o OV COly 
f l l P P 
'. Mi. pt^x.' 
Item No. 5 
B O A R D G F G D V E R N D R S 
5/30/72 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
S-2198 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1339 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
ROAF-TD 
June I, 1972 
Attached is a copy of an interpretation by the Board of 
Governors of section 225.4(a) (7) of Regulation Y, which will be 
published shortly in the Federal Register and in the June 1972 
issue of the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Subsection (d)(3) of the new interpretation provides that 
section 225,4(a)(7) includes investments in "projects designed 
explicitly to create improved job opportunities for low or moderate-
income groups." This standard was purposely drawn in general terms 
to encourage creativeness and flexibility. On the other handv it i: 
not intended to provide a vehicle for bank holding company entry 
into general commercial activity, which of course, is prohibited by 
the Act. Initially, in order to ensure that this subsection Is 
uniformly applied, all applications received under the authority of 
subsection (d)(3), including de novo applicationsT should be 
forwarded to the Board for its determination until further notice. 
Very truly yours, 
/-;/ 
^ 
^ 
/ / 
Tynan Smith 
_ .. - 
- 
<. ^ 
Secrotary 
Attachment 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AMD THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

14C0 
S-2198-a 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II— FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 225—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
Section 225.123(e) is revoked and scction 225.127 is added 
to read as follows: 
5 225.127 Investment: in Corporations or Projects Designed 
Primarily to Promote CcaimurUty Welfare. 
(a) Under § 225.4(a)(7) of Regulation Y, a bank holding 
company may, in accordance with the provisions of § 225.4(b), 
engage in "making equity and debt investments in corporations or 
projects designed primarily to promote community welfare, such as 
the economic rehabilitation and development of low-income areas," 
The Board included that activity among those the Board has determined 
to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks 
as to be a proper incident thereto, in order to permit bank holding 
companies to fulfill their civic responsibilities. As indicated 
hereinafter in this interpretation, the Board intends £ 225.4(a)(7) 
to enable bank holding companies to take an active role in the 
quest for solutions to the nation's social problems. Although the 
interpretation primarily focuses on low-and moderate-income 
housing, it is not intended to limit projects under § 225.4(a)(7) 

1401 
-2-
to that area. Other investments primarily designed to promote 
community welfare are considered permissible, but have not been 
defined in order to provide bank holding companies flexibility in 
approaching community problems. For example, bank holding companies .. 
may utilize this flexibility to provide new and creative approaches 
to the promotion of employment opportunities for low-income persons. 
Bank holding companies possess a unique combination of financial 
and managerial resources making them particularly suited for a 
meaningful and substantial role in remedying our social ills. 
Section 225.4(a)(7) is intended to provide an opportunity for them 
to assuma such a role. 
(b) Under the authority of section 225.4(a)(7), a bank 
holding company may invest in community development corporations 
established pursuant to Federal or State law. A bank holding com-
pany may also participate in other civic projects, such a3 a 
municipal parking facility sponsored by a local civic organization 
as a means to promote greater public use of the community's 
facilities. 
(c) Within the category of permissible investments under 
section 225.4(a)(7) are investments in projects to construct or 
rehabilitate multi~family low-or moderate-income housing with 
respect to which a mortgage is insured under sections 221(d)(3), 
221(d)(4), or 230 of the National Housing Act (12 U.S.C. 1701) 
and investments in projects to construct or rehabilitate low-or 
moderate-income housing which is financed or assisted by direct 
loan, tax abatement, or insurance under provisions of State or 

-4-
1334 
local lav;, similar to the aforementioned federal programs, provided 
that, with respect to all such projects the owner is, by statute, 
regulation, or regulatory authority, limited as to the rate of 
return on his investment in the project, as to rentals or occupancy i — 
charges for units in the project, and in such other respects as 
would be a "limited dividend corporation" (as defined by the 
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development), 
(d) Investments in other projects that may be considered 
to be designed primarily to promote community welfare include but 
are not limited to (1) projects for the construction or rehabilita-
tion of housing for the benefit of persons of low-or moderate-income, 
(2) projects for the construction or rehabilitation of ancillary 
local commercial facilities necessary to provide goods or services 
principally to persons residing in low~or moderate-income housing, 
and (3) projects designed explicitly to create improved job 
opportunities for low<*or moderate-income groups (for example, 
minority equity investments, on a temporary basis, in small or 
medium-sized locally-controlled businesses in low-income urban or 
other economically depressed areas). In the case of de novo projects, 
the copy of the notice with respect to such other projects which is 
to be furnished to Reserve Banks in accordance with the provisions of 
section 225.4(b)(1) should be accompanied by a memorandum which 
demonstrates that such projects meet the objectives of section 
225.4(a)(7). 

1403 
-4-
(e) Investments in corporations or projects organized to 
build or rehabilitate high-income housing, or commercial, office, or 
industrial facilities that are not designed explicitly to create 
improved job opportunities for low-income persons shall be presumed * — 
not to be designed primarily to promote community welfare, unless 
there is substantial evidence to the contrary, even though to some 
extent the investment may benefit the community. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S„C. 1843(c)(8).) 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 30, 1972. 
(Signed) Miches1 As Greenspan 
Michael A* Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

25 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20B5I 
O F T H E 
Item No. 6 
5/30/72 
June 5, 1972 
Mr. James S. Duesenberry 
Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Duesenberry: 
Enclosed for your information is a copy of a letter sent 
this date to Mr. Norman T. Byrnes, Senior Vice President, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, reflecting the Board's approval to the 
Bank's request for authorization to pay an additional $25,000 to 
the firm of Ely, Bar tiett, Brown & Proctor for legal services anti-
cipated to be required in connection with the site acquisition for 
and construction of the Bank's new building. 
In its consideration of this requested authorization, the 
Board expressed deep concern over the Bank's proposed continued use 
of the Ely firm in light of the previous position as partner in that 
firm of Mr. Byrnes, the Bank's Senior Vice President. As reflected 
in the enclosed letter, Mr. Byrnes has been directed to require of 
the Ely firm, at the earliest possible date, a final accounting and 
satisfaction of the amount due him in settlement of his partnership 
interest as of the date he left the firm. 
In addition to directing Mr. Byrnes' immediate termination 
of interest in the Ely firm, the Board has requested that your Bank's 
Board of Directors consider the advisability of the Bank's terminating 
as promptly as practicable its retention and use of the Ely firm. 
In the Board's judgment, considering the number of other well qualified 
law firms in the Boston area and the potential for appearance of 
conflict of interest inherent in the present relationship, the need 
for and wisdom of the Bank's further referral of legal matters to the 
Ely firm is brought strongly into question. The Board recognizes that 
your review of this matter will take into account your knowledge of 
all attending circumstances, including the Bank's particularized 
requirements for legal services, which bear on the question raised. 

1405 
Mr. James S. Duesenberry 
-2-
We appreciate your attention to this matter and any judgment 
thereon you may wish to express. 
Sincerely yours, 
Thomas J./u yfconnell 
GeneralvCouns el 
Enclosure 
cc: Mr. Frank E. Morris 

27 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
TJ 
OF THE 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5 / 3 0 / 7 2 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E FCTRJAUD 
June 5, 1972 
Mr. Norman T. Byrnes 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Byrnes: 
This refers to your letter of January 4, 1972, as supplemented 
by your letters of April 27 and May 3, 1972, requesting Board approval 
of the payment by the Boston Reserve Bank of compensation over and above 
the $175,000 previously authorized to the firm of Ely, Bartlett, Brown, 
& Proctor for services as special counsel in connection with the Bank's 
new building. Your January 4 letter requests Board authorization to 
pay an additional $70,000 to the firm. Your April 27 letter, written 
following discussion of that request by Mr. O'Connell, the Board's 
General Counsel, and Mr. Latham, First Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, supplies additional information with respect 
to the need for, and services to be rendered by, outside counsel, as 
well as your personal involvement with the Ely firm, and modifies your 
earlier request to the extent that Board authorization of the payment 
of an additional $25,000 (rather than $70,000) to the Ely firm is now 
requested. 
On the basis of the information contained in your letters, 
describing the nature and extent of the services to be rendered by the 
Ely firm, particularly in the areas of title registration and real estate 
taxes, the Board has authorized the Boston Reserve Bank to pay additional 
compensation in the amount of $25,000 to the Ely firm, bringing the 
total amount of compensation that may be paid to that firm to $200,000. 
In taking this action the Board has again expressed the view that every 
effort should be made toward the maximum utilization of the Reserve Bank's 
legal staff in connection with legal matters involving the building of 
the Bank's new building. The Board emphasized that any future request 
for legal fees payment in excess of the $200,000 now authorized will 
receive close scrutiny and that continued reliance on outside counsel, 
except for matters of such unusual and uniquely complicated nature as to 
cleaxly require the work of outside counsel, will not be authorized. 

1407 
Mr. Norman T. Byrnes 
-2-
Tbe Board has also determined that your personal financial 
interest in the Ely firm, that is, the amount yet due you in settlement 
of your interest in the firm's accounts, which dates back to your service 
as a partner, may give the appearance of impropriety even where none exists. 
Although, you indicate that the amount owed to you by the firm is probably 
insignificant, the Board believes that leaving the matter unresolved almost 
a year and a half after leaving the firm could be a cause for unfavorable 
comment or point of criticism. The Board feels very strongly that Federal 
Reserve Bank officials should scrupulously avoid even the appearance of 
conflict between personal interests and the interests of the System. 
Accordingly, you should take steps at the earliest possible date to terminate 
any remaining financial interest you may have with the Ely firm. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
cc: James S. Duesenberry, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 

1408 
Item No. 8 
5/30/72 
: r 
C H A I R M A N 
The Honorable T h o m a s . T A s h l e y 
Chairman 
Subcommittee on International Trade 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
IJoase of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20 SI 5 
Dear M r . Chairman: 
The Board appreciates the opportunity to offer our views 
on I-I. R. 14412, a bill to establish on a statutory basis a Council 
on International Economic Policy. W e believe the present 
Council, which the President established in January 1971, lias 
been performing a useful function. 
The role of foreign economic policy development and 
execution will be increasingly important in the period ahead as 
the United States, in concert with other nations, enters into 
negotiations on a variety of international economic problems. 
By establishing the Council on International Economic Policy 
at. this time as a statutory body in the Executive Office of the 
President, Congress will be giving explicit recognition to the 
.need for effective coordination and involvement at the highest 
levels of the Government in the formulation and execution of 
foreign economic policy. 
We note that Congress, too, will be m o r e closely 
involved in this process, through the "International Economic 
Report" which the President will file annually, and by supple-
mentary reports which the President m a y make. 
The submission 
to the Congress of the President's Economic Report and of the 
Report of the Council of Economic Advisers lias proven its value 
for domestic economic policy over the years, and w e believe 
the "International Economic Report" could serve a comparable 
jjurpose. W e would call to your attention, that the bill docs not 
B O A R D OK G O V E R N O R S 
CI f" T H E 
gr / ; • : / • 
;\V- 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
: 
jr.'' 
. 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. I.'. 2 0 5 5 1 
PFriCF. OF THi: VIC 
Hay 30, 1972 

1409 
The Honorable T h o m a s Lr. Ashley 
refer to the present National Advisory Council on International 
Monetary and .Financial Policies, and that the relationship 
between that Council and the Council proposed in the biJl is 
thercfore unclear. 
W e note that one of the m e m b e r s of the proposed 
Council is the Chairman of the Board of Governors, thus enabling 
him to m a k e a.n appropriate contribution to the work of the Council 
in the light of the information resources, expertise, and 
responsibilities of the Federal Reserve. 
Sincerely, 
