609 
' 5-67) 
K 5. 
Minutes for 
May 19, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
i> . 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
t o the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial bel ow. If you were present at the meeting, 
y°ur initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Vi J on . 
' •• i: '« 1 

2009 
•: / • • • . 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem on Friday, May 19, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
1Q:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
ibx 
u-d. 
cv. 
Gov 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Sigel, Eckert, 
Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Baker, 
Bryant, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on conditions in the 
Vernment securities market, Mr. Eckert commented on recent and pro-
P *» • -
Active bank credit developments, Mr. Keir discussed the corporate 
9rid municipal bond markets, and Mr. Baker summarized foreign exchange 
- i -
rtlarket developments, with particular reference to the position of 

2010 
5/19/67 
-2 -
sterling. Copies of the several tables and charts distributed in con-
nection with today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions withdrew from the meeting, as did Messrs. Holland 
and Broida and Miss Eaton, and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Via, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco on 
*•• 
, ..... 
, 
, 
,. 
.. 
i . . . . . . 
f 
. . . . . 
..... ^ 
» 
1 V 
... ... , 
. 
J 
,..'_*' ; 
Hay 18, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
Schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
P^iate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
1 
cer consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
M 
Item No. 
^etter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
1 
ifornia, granting an extension of time 
LtUn which 
to establish a branch near 
pt°s, Santa Cruz County. 
jitter to Farmers and Merchants Bank of 
2 
i
 n8 Beach, Long Beach, California, grant-
an extension of time within which to 
tablish a branch in Bellflower. 

2011 
5/19/67 
-3 -
Report on proposed bill to provide security measures for 
iLinancial institutions. There had been distributed a memorandum from 
the Legal Division and the Division of Examinations dated May 18, 1967, 
relating to a request from the Bureau of the Budget for a report on a 
hill proposed by the Department of Justice "to provide security measures 
f o r financial institutions." The bill would require the three Federal 
hank supervisory agencies and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to pro-
mulgate rules requiring banks and savings and loan associations to 
install and maintain security devices and procedures for protection 
a8ainst robberies, burglaries, and larcenies, including alarm and auto-
matic camera systems. The Federal Reserve Board would be required to 
Promulgate such rules for the Reserve Banks and for State member banks. 
^ailure to comply with the rules would subject the offender to a penalty 
UP to $100 per day for each violation. 
Submitted with the memorandum was a draft of letter to the 
of 
Bud 8et Bureau that would indicate that the Board favored the objective 
the bill but express the view that the approach embodied in the bill 
Would not constitute a practicable method of achieving that objective 
^ judgment would be expressed that the problem of prescribing security 
devi< 
able 
Lces and procedures did not lend itself to the formulation of work-
and equitable standards. 
Mr. O'Connell stated that changes in the draft letter had been 
Su8gested since the draft was distributed. According to one approach, 
s 
•

2012 
5/19/67 
-4 -
the Board might express concurrence in the objective of the draft bill 
but point out that the Board had already established procedures for 
review of security measures at the Federal Reserve Banks, and for State 
member banks also, and that it did not see a need for the proposed legis-
^tion. 
Governor Maisel referred to statistics compiled by the American 
Bankers Association on losses sustained by banks due to robberies and 
burglaries in recent years. The total, he pointed out, did not appear 
Efficient to warrant expending the time and effort that would be 
re<luired to implement elaborate procedures such as apparently were con-
templated by the proposed legislation. 
Mr. Cardon noted that a Subcommittee of the House Committee on 
G°vernment Operations had been furnished figures showing substantial 
Ureases from year to year in the number of crimes against banks. The 
Subcommittee's evident concern led him to suggest that the Board's report 
°n the proposed bill not be based primarily on the dollar volume of losses 
8ustained. 
Governor Brimmer said it was his impression that many of the 
rePorted robberies involved financial institutions other than banks, and 
Mr 
t 
• ^eavitt recalled that Congressional testimony a couple of years ago 
indicated that the number of robberies and burglaries involving banks 
of 
Per 
about doubled in the preceding 8 or 9 years. Since then the number 
such crimes had continued to increase, although somewhat less rapidly 
Centagewise. 

2013 
5/19/67 
-5 -
Governor Brimmer suggested that a check might reveal that the 
situation was more serious in respect to financial institutions other 
than banks. He then inquired whether a relaxation of security standards 
at suburban offices may not have contributed to a higher incidence of 
°rimes involving such offices. Mr. Leavitt agreed that that appeared 
to have been a factor, along with the general trend toward less formal 
banking quarters to improve the public image of the banks. 
The Chairman then turned to Mr. O'Connell, who outlined the 
nature of a revision of the draft report to the Budget Bureau that he 
w°uld have in mind. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the report might point out 
that crimes against financial institutions had been increasing along 
with the increase in all crimes, that the crimes against banks did not 
result in losses to depositors, that it was primarily the responsibility 
banks themselves to institute and maintain adequate security measures, 
that such efforts could be bolstered by encouragement from the super-
visory agencies, but that it was not the job of the agencies to prescribe 
sPecific measures. The letter could also point out that there had been 
n° Problem in respect to crimes of this nature against Federal Reserve 
^anks. He felt that the Board should be sure of the facts before draw-
a distinction between banks and nonbank financial institutions. 
After further discussion, it was understood that the letter to 
tlle Bureau of the Budget would be revised in the light of the comments 

2014 
5/19/67 
-6 -
made at this meeting and that the new draft would be brought back to 
the Board for consideration. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Study of capital markets. Governor Robertson referred to a 
memorandum of May 15, 1967, in which Mr. Brill requested permission to 
resume participation in the studies by the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development on the improvement of capital markets. 
Such participation was likely to require Mr. Brill's continuing to 
serve in an advisory capacity to the Organization's Committee for Invis-
ible Transactions, with occasional attendance at meetings in Paris. Mr. 
Brill also requested permission to submit through the Treasury the names 
°f Peter Keir and Stephen Taylor of the Board's staff for assistance in 
connection with the Committee's exploration of (1) private pension and 
insurance plans and (2) improvement of the international comparability 
°f financial statistics. Such assignments might involve their having 
t o attend two or three meetings abroad. 
Governor Robertson recommended that the proposals in Mr. Brill's 
memorandum be approved, with the understanding that alternates to the 
three persons in question might be provided at a certain stage if the 
studies proved to be of long duration. 
The Board authorized continued participation in the studies by 
Brill and also authorized him to submit the names of Messrs. Keir 
and Taylor for the specific assignments mentioned in the memorandum. 

2015 
/ 
5/19/67 
-7 -
Credit Union (Item No. 3). Governor Robertson referred to a 
letter that he had received from the President of the F.R.B. Federal 
Credit Union requesting clarification of several points relating gen-
erally to the degree of assistance that the Board was prepared to render 
to the Credit Union in terms of facilities, services, and allowing time 
for Board employees to conduct the affairs of the organization. 
Governor Robertson then read a draft of reply that he proposed 
to send and inquired whether it reflected the views of the other members 
of the Board. A major point advanced in the proposed reply was that the 
time had come when a person from outside the Board's staff should be 
employed by the Credit Union as manager. 
Governor Robertson stated that he had discussed the subject 
with the Board's Personnel Director and Controller, and that in their 
°Pinion the approach outlined in the proposed reply would provide a 
satisfactory solution to problems that had developed in the operation 
°f the Credit Union. He also had talked with former Governor Shepardson 
and found that Mr. Shepardson had taken substantially the same positions 
a s set forth in the draft letter in his discussions with the staff. 
The other members of the Board expressed general concurrence 
wi-th the views proposed to be stated by Governor Robertson in his letter. 
Governor Maisel suggested that one portion of the letter, deal-
ing 
with the time required to conduct the Credit Union's business, might 
be softened somewhat in light of the value attached to the services of 

2 0 1 6 
5/19/67 
-8-
the Credit Union as an employee fringe benefit. He noted that even if 
an outside manager were retained, continued growth of the Credit Union 
might require contributions of time on the part of Board employees, and 
in his opinion the Board should be prepared to go along with arrangements 
to provide such assistance to a reasonable extent. 
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer, Governor Robertson 
said that the possible retention of an outside manager, which had been 
considered by the Credit Union membership but voted down, was in line 
with suggestions made by the Credit Union examiners. Governor Brimmer 
suggested that that fact might be noted in Governor Robertson's letter. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that after a previous informal Board 
discussion of Credit Union affairs the Director of Personnel was 
requested to check on the practices followed by credit unions operated 
in other Government agencies. Governor Robertson said the survey 
revealed that many such credit unions had switched over to the reten-
tion of an outside manager. 
After further discussion relating to the services provided to 
employees by the Credit Union, the resources available to the Credit 
Union, and the employment of those resources, it was understood that 
Governor Robertson would review his proposed letter to the President 
°f the Credit Union in the light of the comments and suggestions made 
a t this meeting and that the letter would be sent after Governor 
Robertson had made any changes in it that seemed appropriate. 

2017 
5/19/67 
-9 -
A copy of the letter as subsequently transmitted is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On May 18, 1967, 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City (copy 
attached as Item No. 4) approving the 
appointment of Roger Alan Rieger as 
assistant examiner. 
Governor Robertson today approved 
on behalf of the Board the following 
items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached as 
Item No. 5^ approving the appointment of James Walter Cloud as Federal 
Reserve Agent's Representative at the Baltimore Branch. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
.Item No. 6) approving the appointment of John E. Ryan as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
j»v .i 
Letters to Mrs. Helene Prono, Arlington, Virginia, and Mrs. Esther 
B. Davis, Washington, D. C., confirming arrangements for them to give 
instruction in conversational French to members of the Board's staff 
a s an activity of the Board's Employee Training and Development Program, 
a fee of $6 to be paid for each session conducted. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
intments 
Carol Montgomery Bassie as Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
T 
Linda Orrison as Research Assistant, Division of Research and Sta-
tistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effective the 
^ate of entrance upon duty. 
&X\> : 
j 
Jean H. Still as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,416, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

> 0 1 8 
5/19/67 
-10-
Entrance salary adjustment 
David T. Hulett, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
basic annual salary at the rate of $13,321 rather than at the rate 
Previously approved, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective May 21, 1967 
Name and title 
Division 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Catherine B. Davian, Secretary to 
$ 9,221 
$ 9,536 
Governor Maisel 
Nyart S. Sharigan, Secretary 
8,243 
8,478 
Office of the Secretary 
Ruth W. Franta, Supervisor, Minutes Indexing 
8,155 
8,368 
and Reference Unit 
M. Joan McLean, Supervisor, Clearing Unit 
5,867 
6,451 
Research and Statistics 
Jared J. Enzler, Economist 
11,111 
11,741 
Harvey Galper, Economist 
12,064 
12,822 
Patric H. Hendershott, Economist 
12,064 
13,580 
James L. Kichline, Economist 
9,851 
11,111 
Rowena A. Lipscomb, Statistical Clerk 
4,776 
4,936 
Paul F. McGouldrick, Economist 
13,321 
14,217 
Cornelia J. Motheral, Economist (5-hour day) 
7,305 
8,014 
Janice Peskin, Economist 
10,927 
12,064 
Bernard Shull, Chief, Banking Markets Section 
21,192 
21,799 
Alfred J. Telia, Economist 
12,873 
14,217 
Thomas D. Thomson, Economist 
12,064 
13,580 
Peter Ault Tinsley, Economist 
12,064 
13,769 
International Finance 
Ralph C. Bryant, Assistant to the Director 
13,769 
14,665 
Robert M. Dunn, Jr., Economist 
10,796 
12,064 
W. Karcz, Economist 
9,851 
10,481 
Henry F. Lee, Economist 
12,064 
12,822 
°avid C. Redding, Economist 
11,685 
12,443 
Fred B. Ruckdeschel, Economist 
9,536 
10,796 

o 0 1 9 
5/19/67 
>- 
-11-
Salary increases, effective May 21, 1967 (continued) 
Name and title 
Division 
Administrative Services 
Basic annual salary 
William R. Howell, Supply Clerk 
Walter Lee, Laborer 
Charlie H. Ward, Lead Laborer 
Data Processing 
Adeline R. Tweed, General Assistant 
Transfers 
From 
$3,925 
3,609 
5,158 
7,957 
To 
$4,058 
3,731 
5,408 
8,218 
Rexanne E. Byard, Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
to another budget position in the Financial Statistics Section, with no 
change in basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective May 22, 
1967. 
Willie Ruth Rutledge, Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
Services, from a part-time position to a full-time position, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective May 21, 1967. 
paternity leave 
Joyce Jamison, Librarian, Division of Research and Statistics, 
Postponement of the beginning of maternity leave from the close of 
business May 24, 1967, to the close of business June 7, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Thomas M. Klein, Economist, Division of International Finance, 
effective the close of business May 15, 1967. 
Alvin Milton, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business May 26, 1967. 
H. Allan Tomkinson, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business May 26, 1967. 
Helen Cooke, Digital Computer Programmer, Division of Research 
aad Statistics, effective the close of business June 16, 1967. 

2020 
jeS&fc. 
BOARD OF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/19/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
San Francisco, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to November 22, 1967, the time within 
which Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, California, may 
establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection 
of State Park Drive and State Highway No. 1 adjacent to 
Aptos, Santa Cruz County, California. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 0 2 1 
mm^o:. 
BOARD D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
5/19/67 
A D O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers and Merchants Bank of 
Long Beach, 
Long Beach, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approved the establishment of a branch by Farmers 
and Merchants Bank of Long Beach, Long Beach, California, 
in the vicinity of the intersection of Woodruff and 
Rosecrans Avenues, Bellflower, California, on April 27, 
1965, provided it was established within one year. The 
Board subsequently extended the time within which the 
branch could be established to April 27, 1967. 
The Board understands that your plans to 
establish the branch are indefinite at this time and that 
the State Banking Department's approval of this branch 
expires on July 8, 1967. Under the circumstances, the 
Board extends to July 8, 1967, the time within which 
Farmers and Merchants Bank of Long Beach, Long Beach, 
California, may establish a branch in the vicinity of 
the intersection of Woodruff and Rosecrans Avenues, 
Bellflower, California, at which time the Board expects 
definite plans as to the establishment of the branch 
will be formulated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
5/19/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 0. C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
Hay 19, 1967 
Mr. R. F. Sanders, President 
Board of Directors 
F.R.B. Federal Credit Union 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Mr. Sanders: 
I am glad to take the opportunity presented by 
your letter of Hay 11, 1967 to comment on the general 
question of the extent to which the Board of Governors 
views the Credit Union as fulfilling an employee benefit 
that it is willing to support indirectly and to indicate 
the application of that view to specific matters. 
Clearly the Credit Union represents an employee 
benefit that the Board of Governors may appropriately 
support. Even if the Credit Union operated only for the 
purposes of (1) promoting thrift among its members by af-
fording them an opportunity to accumulate their savings, 
and (2) creating for them a source of credit for provident 
or productive purposes, some measure of support by the 
Board of Governors would be appropriate. The fact that 
the Credit Union performs other services of value to the 
Board - particularly a check cashing facility for its mem-
bers and, on occasion, for visitors and students at schools 
conducted by the Board, as well as providing employees with 
means of working out of financial difficulties in an or-
derly way - justifies more than a minimum amount of support 
The appropriate form of that support is for the 
Board of Governors to furnish the Credit Union with facil-
ities and services in order that it may operate with maxi-
mum effectiveness and efficiency. As the Credit Union has 
grown, support by the Board through making its personnel 
available to perform operating activities of the Credit 
Union during office hours of the Board has become less ap-
propriate . 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M |>i 202 
2023 
Mr. R. F. Sanders:--#2 
Although the Credit Union membership voted against 
hiring an "outside manager11 at its annual meeting in Janu-
ary, the Credit Union has reached the size where, in fair-
ness to the Board, it should shift into that type of oper-
ation. Accordingly, I urge the board of directors to renew 
consideration of this matter. If the board considers that 
its hiring a manager would be inappropriate in the circum-
stances, I suggest that the board call a special meeting 
of the membership, at which your board would favorably 
recommend adoption of a proposal for hiring an outside 
manager. 
In this connection, it is my understanding that 
earnings for 1967 are running in excess of those for 1966, 
despite a $110 per month increase in salary expenses. Since 
the present amount of shares appears sufficient to main-
tain the current monthly salary expense of $350 without 
any change in the dividend or interest rate, and assuming 
that the monthly salary expense under a manager-type opera-
tion could be held to $470 ($400 for the manager; $70 for 
a spare-time assistant), removing the limitation on the 
purchase of shares could conceivably be sufficient to sus-
tain the cost of such operation. This would result if 
shares increased 10 per cent (approximately $25,000) and 
the proceeds were invested (either in loans or other per-
missible obligations) to return an average of 6 per cent 
($1,500). 
Certainly there are other considerations involved, 
such as required transfers to reserves based on the amount 
of shares and the psychological reactions of members caused 
by the substantial change in the type of operation involved, 
but the change must be made some time and, all circumstances 
considered, the present seems as favorable as any0 The 
Board of Governors simply cannot permit the Credit Union 
to continue to grow year after year - which it must to ful-
fill its purposes as the size of the staff of the Board of 
Governors inevitably increases - under the present mode of 
operation with its unduly large drain on the time of Board 
employees. 
To encourage and facilitate the change in opera-
tion and to support the Credit Union in an appropriate 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
| > i 
2 0 2 
Mr, R. F. Sanders:--#3 
^manner, the Board of Governors will no longer assess 
the Credit Union with charges for local telephone ser-
vice, stationery and other office supplies (excluding 
postage), mimeographing or other reproduction service, 
and will permit Board facilities to be used for a trip 
to the bank each day of operation. 
Further, the Board will approve the development 
and implementation of a pay roll deduction program (mu-
tually acceptable to the Controller, the Credit Union, 
and members thereof), under which a Credit Union member 
may authorize the Controllers Office to make regular 
deductions from his pay for the purpose of (1) purchas-
ing shares, or (2) repaying a loan. Although such a pro-
gram must be delayed until the current United States sav-
ings bond drive will have ended and conversion to the IBM 
360 pay roll program will have been accomplished, it seems 
Reasonable to set January 1, 1968 as the target date for 
implementation of the pay roll deduction program for the 
Credit Union. 
I. must emphasize that the Board of Governors ex-
pects that the increase in facilities and services fur-
nished by it to the Credit Union will be accompanied by 
a change in the Credit Union*s type of operation. As with 
the pay roll deduction program, it seems reasonable to 
set January 1, 1968 as the target date for conversion to 
an "outside manager" type of operation. In the interim, 
the time devoted by members of the Board*s staff in ful-
filling the duties of paid personnel of the Credit Union 
should be held to a reasonable minimum. 
By this I mean that the time during Board office 
hours that is devoted by the assistant treasurers to per-
forming Credit Union functions should not exceed the cur-
rent hours the Credit Union is open for operation by more 
than fifteen minutes per day of operation. (I understand 
that those hours are from 12:15 p 0m 0 to 1:00 p.m. Monday, 
Wednesday, and Friday, except that on paydays the hours 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M |>i 202 
2025 
Mr. R. p. Sanders:--#4 
are from 11:00 a.m. to 2:00 p.m.) The Board time used by 
the treasurer to perform Credit Union functions should not 
exceed that necessary to perform those functions that can 
only be performed during such hours. It is understood that 
these time schedules reflect the practice contemplated in 
connection with the recent salary increases. 
Board personnel qualified for the nonpaying positions 
on the board of directors and various committees required to 
fulfill the requirements of the Credit Union's bylaws should 
be encouraged to accept such positions and may perform the 
duties involved during Board time, within reasonable limits, 
unless that will interfere with the performance of duties 
as Board personnel or involve acting in a way that might 
reflect unfavorably on the Board of Governors. 
In my judgment, the appearance in court by a member 
of the Board's Legal Division on behalf of the Credit Union 
is an example of the kind of activity that may place the 
Board in an undesirable posture. It seems probable that 
the lawyer's employment with the Board would come to the 
court's attention and that such employment would have an ef-
fect on the court despite any efforts by the lawyer to as-
sure the court of lack of interest on the part of the Board. 
Accordingly, such court appearances are discouraged. This 
does not mean that a member of the Board's Legal Division 
^ho is also an officer of the Credit Union is prohibited 
from calling a debtor on behalf of the Credit Union, indi-
cating that he is a lawyer, and outlining the Credit Union's 
rights, including possible legal action and the prospective 
results of such action. Nor does this mean that the Board 
^ould object to the treasurer (or manager) filing suit in 
local courts that do not require representation by a li-
censed attorneyo Also, if the board of directors considers 
that the circumstances surrounding a particular delinquent 
loan can be appropriately handled only by a lawyer appear-
ing in court, and if the board assures me that members of 
legal divisions of other federal agencies have appeared on 
behalf of their respective credit union in similar circum-
stances, a single authorization would be considered. In 
the event such an authorization is granted, it should not 
^e considered a precedent, but merely exploratory, and would 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M |>i 202 
Mr. R. F. Sanders:--#5 
have to be followed by a detailed report to me of the na-
ture and extent of the lawyer*s participation. 
* 
Underlying much of this letter is the conviction 
that the F.R0B. Federal Credit Union should be a model op-
eration. Because it is associated with the Board, which 
has bank supervisory responsibilities, the Credit Union 
should be particularly responsive to criticism by Federal 
Credit Union examiners in their Supervisory Examination 
Reports and to recommendations by the organizations Super-
visory Committee. 
Thank you for offering me this opportunity to as-
sist in the resolution of Credit Union problems. I hope 
that this letter will serve to clarify the Board of Gov-
ernors* view on the appropriate relationship between it 
and the Credit Union, and, if the board of directors should 
have further questions about the application of the general 
view expressed herein, I would be glad to consider them at 
any time. 
Sincerely, 

B D A R D OF G D V E R N D R S 
_ 
„ 
, 
Item No. 4 
D F T H E 
5/19/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 18, 1967 
Mr. George D. Royer, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64106 
Dear Mr. Royer: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of May 15, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Roger Alan Rieger as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Please advise the salary rate and the effective date 
of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2028 
BOARD D F G D V E R N • RS 
Item No. 5 
S<S>iio'vV'. 
' 
D F T H E 
5/19/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Edwin Hyde, 
^airman of the Board and 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
ederal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Hyde: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1967 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
y 11, 1967, the Board of Governors approves the appointment of 
James Walter Cloud as a Federal Reserve Agent's Representative at the 
altimore Branch to succeed Mr. George A. Ferris, Jr. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Cloud 
Z u l be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
vernors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, during 
e absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in that 
fice, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve Agent 
t-u 
crie Board of Governors. 
^ 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Federal 
p Serve Agent's Representative, Mr. Cloud may, with the approval of the 
^deral Reserve Agent and the Vice President in charge of the Baltimore 
^anch, perform such work for the Branch as will not be inconsistent with 
s duties as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative. 
j 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Cloud is fully informed of the 
Importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the Federal 
0
 S e r ve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from the 
erations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
a 
^ 
It is noted from your letter that, with the approval of Mr. Cloud's 
O i n t m e n t by the Board of Governors, he will execute the usual Oath of 
e££Ice which will be forwarded to the Board together with advice of the 
ective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
of THE 
5/19/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C (J R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1967 
Franklin J. Lunding, 
Chairman of the Board 
and Federal Reserve Agent, 
ederal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
^icago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Lunding: 
In accordance with the request in your letter of May 10, 1967, 
e Board of Governors approves the appointment of Mr. John E. Ryan as an 
ternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. 
k 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Ryan will 
solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
tv/ern°rs 
P r oP e r performance of his duties, except that, during 
* absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in that 
Ice, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve Agent 
the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
p Slstant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Ryan may, with the approval of the 
e r al Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the Bank as 
£ ^ not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant Federal 
eserve Agent. 
j 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Ryan is fully informed of the 
Importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the Federal 
0
 Serve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from the 
Nations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
b 
It is noted that upon receipt of the approval of the appointment 
* the Board of Governors, Mr. Ryan will execute the usual Oath of Office 
ch will be forwarded to the Board. It is also noted that Mr. Ryan's 
..POintment is for use only in case of emergencies and with the understanding 
the' 
— • w u i c u l 
it> 
i u r 
u s e oniy 
jlii Cci&t: 
u j l 
e r n e L g t : i l e x e s ariu w i l c 
L u e 
u u u e i a l c l u u . 
tK^ 
n o t examine banks which are designated cash agent banks under 
Wartime Emergency Operations Procedure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
