^ 609 
. 
<., 
Minutes for 
May 26. 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
;
 0 u-

1753 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 26, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherri11 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Ormsby, and Miss Eaton of 
the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, T. Smith, 
Williams, Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Shull, 
Weiner, Baker, Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, 
Wetzel, and Zeisel, and Mrs. Smelker of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Irvine, Pizer, Altmann, 
Emery, Gekker, Karcz, Maroni, and R. Smith 
of the Division of International Finance 
Economic review. Preparatory to tomorrow's meeting of the 
Fed 
eral Open Market Committee, members of the Division of Research 
anc
* Statistics and the Division of International Finance reviewed for 
Board economic and financial developments both at home and abroad. 
H^g Y* 
reports were based to some extent on materials prepared for the 

1754 
5/26/69 
-2-
Committee meeting, and copies of the relevant documentation have been 
placed in the Committee's files. 
Following the review, members of the research divisions other 
than Messrs. Partee, Tynan Smith, and Shull withdrew, as did Messrs. 
Sherman, Broida, Bernard, and Morgan, and Miss Eaton, and the follow-
ing entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Re serve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, Mertz, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Schweitzer and Wiles and Miss Wickstead of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, and Kline of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Millea of the Office of the Controller 
Application of Bankers Trust New York Corporation. 
There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and 
R e
gulation dated May 16, 1969, concerning the application of Bankers 
rp 
U s t
 
York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire the voting 
eU . 
r e s
 °f the Bank of Jamestown, Jamestown, New York. The recommenda-
tions were favorable. 

X / bo 
5/26/69 
-3-
Following a summary of the case by Mr. Kline, Governor Mitchell 
asked who had originated the proposal, which he felt did not represent 
the most advantageous way for Bankers Trust to enter the Jamestown 
market. Mr. Kline reported that this information had been contained 
in the application but that he did not have it presently at hand. 
He 
noted, however, that Bankers Trust had previously attempted entry into 
the Ninth Banking District through acquisition of the third largest 
bank located there, but that that application had been denied. 
Governor Brimmer 
noted that an argument for approval was the 
fact that consummation would remove the home office protection presently 
Provided in the city of Jamestown by the independent status of Bank of 
Jamestown. Under New York banking laws such protection precluded de 
novo branch entry and its removal could lead to some deconcentration 
through the establishment of new offices by the large banks in the 
Ninth Banking District. 
The application of Bankers Trust New York Corporation to 
acquire the voting shares of the Bank of Jamestown was then approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement would 
R a f t e d for the Board's consideration. 
Applications of Atlantic Bancorporation and Atlantic National 
— — T h e r e had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated May 9, 1969, concerning the applica-
11 
ns of Atlantic Bancorporation (a registered bank holding company) 

1756 
5/26/69 
-4-
and The Atlant ic National Bank of Jacksonville (a subsidiary of Atlantic 
Bancorporation and itself a registered bank holding company), both of 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Normandy Atlantic Bank. 
The Florida State Commissioner of Banking had recommended approval, as 
had the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation. No recommendation had been received from the Comptrol-
ler of the Currency. 
Mr. Lyon summarized the contents of the memorandum and reported 
that, since its preparation, the Comptroller of the Currency had also 
recommended approval. 
The applications of Atlantic Bancorporation and The Atlantic 
National Bank of Jacksonville to acquire shares of Normandy Atlantic 
Bank, a proposed new bank to be located in Jacksonville, were approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Mid America Bancorporation. 
There had been 
distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion dated May 16, 1969, concerning the application of Mid America 
Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, presently a one-bank holding 
company holding 92 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of High-
land park State Bank, St. Paul, to become a registered bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
s t
o c k of Valley National Bank of Eagan Township, St. Paul, Minnesota, 
h » , , 

/ 
i. 
5/26/69 
-5-
in exchange for its own shares. The Commissioner of Banks for the 
State of Minnesota had expressed no objection to the application, and 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis and the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had recommended approval. No recommendation had been 
received from the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Mr. Lyon summarized the contents of the memorandum and noted 
that applicant planned to retire the acquisition debt arising out of 
its earlier purchase of Highland Park State Bank from the proceeds of 
the sale of 150,000 shares of its stock. He suggested that the letter 
notifying applicant of Board approval of the present application should 
specifically cite these plans. 
The application of Mid America Bancorporation to become a bank 
holding company was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
a n
 order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Interpretation of Regulation Z. There had been distributed a 
d r a
f t interpretation of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, regarding 
n 
ustomers" and joint owners of property under the right of rescission. 
The interpretation was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that it would be released with the eight interpretations of 
Regulation Z approved by the Board on May 23, 1969. 
(Note: 
Copies 
O £ ».l . 
n
e interpretations issued later in the day are attached to the 
m i
^ t e s of May 23.) 
Proposal for redesign of the discount mechanism. 
At its meet-
i n
8 on April 2, 1969, the Board had deferred for further consideration 

1758 
5/26/69 
-6-
a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated March 14, 1969. 
That memorandum had identified and discussed changes in the proposal 
for redesign of the discount mechanism published in July 1968 which, 
in the view of the System Steering Committee, were warranted by 
comments received since that time. There had recently been distributed 
a memorandum dated May 21, 1969, from Governor Mitchell, to which were 
attached: 
a draft of a revised Regulation A; a draft notice of pro-
Posed rule making for publication in the Federal Register; and a draft 
press release announcing the proposed revision. Each of these docu-
ments had been revised somewhat since it was last submitted to the 
Board. 
Governor Mitchell directed the Board's attention to the final 
Paragraph of the draft press release, which discussed probable timing 
o f
 implementation of the proposal for redesign of the discount mecha-
nism. He noted that the Steering Committee had assumed, although he 
WflQ r» 4-
not sure it had said so explicitly, that the implementation would 
take place in a relatively neutral monetary atmosphere. 
This was 
because it would necessitate adjustments on the part of commercial 
banks and of the Federal Reserve itself, which probably should not be 
Pyramided on top of difficulties already facing them as a direct 
r e S U l t 
o f
 stringent monetary conditions. On the other hand, Governor 
Mitchell reported that he saw inconsistencies in administration of the 
iscount window developing in the present atmosphere which, if allowed 

1759 
5/26/69 
-7-
to grow unchecked, could drive banks from the discount window and 
force them to exert excessive pressures on other avenues of adjustment, 
perhaps causing problems such as had arisen in the municipal bond 
market in 1966. He felt that implementation of the proposal in the 
near future would serve to mitigate these inconsistencies. 
Governor Mitchell therefore felt that the revised Regulation A 
should be published, with a 60-day period for receipt of comments, and 
then held in abeyance until circumstances warranted its implementation. 
He suggested that such a decision should be made in light of both the 
benefits and the frictions likely to arise from the introduction of a 
redesigned window at any given time. 
Chairman Martin expressed himself as agreeing with the merits 
°f the proposal, but stressed the importance of timing. He preferred 
to see publication as well as implementation delayed beyond the pres-
sures on banks likely to arise in June, chiefly from the June 15 tax 
date. Governor Daane agreed, suggesting that the very need for a 
caveat in the press release demonstrated the untimeliness of such an 
innovative step in present conditions. He noted that a later publica-
tion date might permit the announcement to be more forthcoming with 
r e
gard to implementation. 
Governor Sherrill added that to introduce 
it 
now would, in addition to forcing possible destabilizing adjustments 
0 r i
 the banking system, cloud the meaning of indicators on which the 
federal Reserve relied at the very time when a maximum of intelligence 
r e
garding monetary conditions was imperative. 

1760 
5/26/69 
- 8-
Governor Brimmer remarked that he still had a number of ques-
tions regarding the merits of the general proposal for redesign of the 
discount mechanism. Governor Robertson also reiterated his doubts, 
especially with regard to the provision of "no-question-asked" credit, 
as proposed under the basic borrowing privilege. 
Both agreed with the 
comments made earlier with regard to the inappropriateness of any major 
innovative actions in the face of current monetary conditions, regard-
less of the long-run merits of the proposal. 
It was therefore agreed that no action would be taken at this 
time with regard to the proposal to redesign the discount mechanism, 
a
nd that both the merits of the proposal and the question of timing 
would be reconsidered at a later date as monetary conditions eased. 
Proposed symposium. 
There had been distributed memoranda from 
the Division of Research and Statistics (May 20, 1969) and the Office 
o f
 the Controller (May 22, 1969) regarding a proposed symposium on the 
tonometries of price determination. 
The Board's Consultant Committee 
0 n
 Price Measurement, in cooperation with the Social Science Research 
Council, had requested authorization to schedule such a symposium for 
t W
°
 d a
y
s
 in October 1970, at an estimated cost of $30,000-$35,000. 
It 
w
°uld bring together scholars currently doing research in this and in 
E l a t e d areas. 
The proposal was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
