FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 9, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
•V. >b |. ' 
• . 
r, 
if ' v I , 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
t. > 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
i / .; 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2 8 2 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Friday, October 9, 1970. 
The Board met in the Board Room at 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherri11 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics JL/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance JL/ 
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Ryon, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Economic and financial review. The regular weekly economic and 
financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical charts and 
U.J & ! • 1 . . . 
J 
• 
.. 
tables prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the individual briefings; these were also made 
available to all Board members. 
Members of the staff involved in the presentation of the fore-
going review then withdrew from the meeting. Mr. O'Connell, General 
r* • 
j \ > 
• .... ,.. ' 
• 
; 
;
 ; 
; 
. 
: i • 
i' -' : : 
Counsel, Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel, and Miss Hart, 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2 8 2 4 
10/9/70 
-2 
Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation, entered, 
together with other members of the staff interested in the following 
subjects. 
Questions regarding census. Attached to an October 7, 1970, 
memorandum from the Office of the Secretary was a draft of a proposed 
reply by Chairman Burns to the Secretary of Commerce presenting views 
°n the usefulness of conducting a census of population and housing 
every five years. 
There were n<3 adverse comments on the draft reply, and the 
letter was thereafter sent by the Chairman (copy attached as Item No.1). 
Loans on bank stock. With a memorandum dated October 8, 1970, 
the Office of the Secretary transmitted a letter and recent study 
received by Governor Robertson from President Coldwell of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
The letter expressed concern about the increasing 
use of loans secured by bank stock to finance ownership changes, as 
reflected in the study. 
During discussion it was generally agreed that the study tended 
to exaggerate the perils to the banking system posed by this method of 
financing, but that a significant problem existed to which attention 
should be given and solutions considered. 
It was suggested that the 
three Federal bank supervisory agencies should confer on the matter 

2 8 2 5 
10/9/70 
-3-
in light of the need for uniform supervisory attitudes, and that the 
staff should develop additional material for the Board's consideration. 
New York Stock Exchange proposal. 
Discussion followed with 
respect to a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and the Division of Research and Statistics dated October 8, 1970, which 
submitted a draft of a proposed letter to the New York Stock Exchange. 
The NYSE had proposed a series of rule changes designed to tighten cap-
ital requirements for its member firms. 
One of these proposals would 
raise the "haircut" requirements (used to determine member firms' net 
capital positions) for stocks that were registered on the American Stock 
Exchange or that appeared on the Board's list of over-the-counter margin 
stocks. 
As described in the draft, the proposed changes would differen-
tiate between OTC stocks on the Board's list and all other OTC stocks, 
which the staff believed undesirable. 
Suggestions were made for some clarifying revisions in the draft 
letter, and changes were made in it to reflect these suggestions. 
The 
let ter was then approved in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Bank taxation study. 
Pursuant to the requirement for a Board 
report embodied in tax legislation enacted last December, the Board had 
Previously approved the appointment of an advisory panel to aid in the 
Planning of the project (to study State taxation of banks). 
In a 
Memorandum dated October 8, 1970, the Division of Research and Statistics 

10/9/70 
-4-
preserited the panel's list of proposed study topics and a request for 
$15 ,500 to contract with outside experts to conduct this research. 
The Board approved this request for funds and the resulting 
budget overexpenditure. 
The Research Division's memorandum also noted that, in addition 
to the five projects specifically proposed, there were several other 
studies remaining to be arranged. 
The Division indicated that it was 
seeking help within the System to reduce the need for dependence on 
outside consultants. However, to the extent that such help could not 
be obtained within the System, the Division would request an additional 
outlay of up to $15,000 to finance the outside studies. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he would like to study this matter 
further, and the Board indicated that it would concur with his decision 
on whether or not to authorize the additional outlay and resulting budget 
overexpenditure. 
Discount rates. 
The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas 
City, and Dallas on October 8, 1970, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Credit union insurance. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter 
responding to a request of the Office of Management and Budget for the 

10/9/70 
-5-
Board's views regarding enrolled bill S. 3822, providing for insurance 
of member accounts in State and Federally chartered credit unions. 
A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Request from Senator Proxmire. 
Mr. Holland noted receipt of a 
letter dated October 6, 1970, in which Senator Proxmire, writing as 
Vice Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, presented several questions 
growing out of an enclosed memorandum on economic developments that had 
been prepared for the Senate Democratic Policy Committee by Professors 
Ackley, Heller, and Okun. 
The Senator's letter had been acknowledged, 
with indication that his request for comments would be given prompt 
attention. 
It was understood that the incoming material would be made 
available to the members of the Board and that the staff would proceed 
with the drafting of a reply. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
10/9/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
October 28, 1970 
The Honorable Maurice H. Stans 
Secretary of Commerce 
Washington, D.G. 
20230 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
Thank you for your letter of September 14 asking about the usefulness 
to the Federal Reserve System of a census of population and housing 
to be conducted every 5 years rather than decennially, as at present. 
The Federal Reserve System has made continuing use of information 
provided by the decennial population and housing censuses. 
Among 
varied direct uses, it employs these census data in studying local 
banking markets, in interpreting developments in housing and 
mortgage markets, in analyzing per capita trends in certain 
economic indicators within Federal Reserve Districts and States, 
and in establishing benchmarks for our flow of funds accounts. 
Our indirect use is extensive, in light of our analysis of many 
economic series, published by others, which depend on decennial 
census findings for adequate benchmarks. 
For all these reasons, we. feel that the background data from the 
population and housing census represent a vital component of our 
over-all system of economic intelligence about developments in 
regional, State, and metropolitan areas as well as about trends 
in the nation as a whole. 
In order to benchmark such changes 
within an economy that is as dynamic as ours, we believe that a 
quinquennial census of population and housing has now become 
essential. 
A 1975 census would be most useful to the Federal Reserve System 
if it could provide benchmarks for essentially the same broad 
categories covered in the 1970 census, particularly to undergird 
the special annual sample survey of housing and its occupants 
which has already been proposed as a means of documenting yearly 
progress made toward meeting our nation's housing goals. 
Over 
the longer run, we urge that periodic censuses eventually be 
broadened to cover the stock and use of nonresidential as well 
as residential real estate facilities, which together comprise 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2829 
Honorable Maurice H. Stans 
- 2 -
the product of one of our largest industries ana account for important 
shares of the nation's total new capital formation, physical wealth, 
loan collateral, rental income, and property taxes. A census of 
nonresidential real estate would be of direct usefulness to the Federal 
Reserve in preparing estimates of capacity utilization in industry and 
in improving measures of output in the construction sector. 
More 
broadly, it could help to document certain physical environmental 
influences affecting the housing stock, at a time of growing interest 
in, and concern about, policies and programs relating to the growth 
and quality of all urban areas. 
The interest of the Federal Reserve System in census data focuses 
largely at national, State, and metropolitan-area levels. 
For our 
own operating purposes, therefore, 1975 census coverage of census 
tracts would not be necessary, although we recognize the need by 
many other users for such detailed local real estate market 
information. 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur F. Burns 

2 8 3 0 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
10/9/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS QrriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 9, 1970 
Mr. Robert M. Bishop 
Vice President 
Department of Member Firms 
New York Stock Exchange 
11 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Bishop: 
It is understood that the New York Stock Exchange is 
presently considering a series of proposed rule changes designed 
to tighten capital requirements for its member firms. One of these 
proposals, the Board of Governors has been informed, would raise 
the "haircut" requirement on stocks that are registered on the 
American Stock Exchange (AMEX), or that appear on the Board's List 
of OTC Margin Stocks, to 30 per cent for trading positions and AO 
per cent for other positions. Other over-the-counter (OTC) stocks 
would be subject to a still higher (50 per cent) "haircut." 
You have indicated that your sole criterion for making 
such a differentiation is that the proposed rule is directed at the 
marketability of issues. 
The Board favors the objective of strength-
ening the capital requirements for your member firms and has no 
objection to your distinguishing between different categories of 
OTC stocks for this purpose. However, the Board believes it would 
be inappropriate to make such a differentiation on the basis of 
presence on, or absence from, the Board's OTC Margin List. 
One requisite for appearance on the Board's List, of course, 
is "the depth and breadth of the market" in the stock. 
It should be 
pointed out, however, that many OTC stocks with greater marketability 
than those appearing on the Board's list are not selected because 
they fail other requirements not necessarily affecting their market-
ability (see section 207.2(f) of Regulation G, section 220.2(e) of 
Regulation T, and section 221.3(d) of Regulation U; 12 CFR 207.2(f), 
220.2(e), and 221.3(d)). 
In addition, the use of preferential "haircuts" among OTC 
issues only for those appearing on the Board's List of OTC Margin 
Stocks would tend to encourage investors to infer that the Board's 

Mr. Robert M. Bishop 
- 2 -
2831 
list represents a selection of quality issues. The Board has sought 
to avoid any such inference. 
The ciriteria used in selecting stocks 
for the list are designed to measure certain market characteristics— 
of which liquidity and depth of market are one, but only one—and the 
Board has provided that "it is unlawful for any representation to be 
made that the inclusion of a security on such list . . . is evidence 
that the Board or the Securities and Exchange Commission has in any 
way passed upon the merits of, or given approval to, such security 
or any transaction therein" (see sections cited above). 
For the reasons stated above, the Board believes that the 
proposed use of the Board's OTC Margin List would be inappropriate 
because it would not be effective for the intended purpose and could 
have undesirable consequences. 
It would be appreciated if you would 
communicate the Board's views to the appropriate Committee of the 
Exchange for its consideration in reaching a decision on this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

2 8 3 2 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
10/9/70 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 9, 1970. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assist ant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of October 7 for 
the Board's views and recommendations on the enrolled bill, 
S. 3822, which provides insurance for member accounts in State 
and federally chartered credit unions and for other purposes. 
The Board recommends Presidential approval of the 
bill. 
Sincerely, 
