Minutes for February 12, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 
Reduction in discount rate. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

40 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 12, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Miss Ryon of the 
Office of the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for the review have 
been placed in the Board's files along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
The meeting continued from this point with the following staff 
attendance: Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Broida, Solomon, Hackley, Molony, 
Cardon, Coyne, O'Brien, and Axilrod. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

414 
2/12/71 
-2-
Discount rate. 
The directors of all of the Federal Reserve 
Banks except New York and Kansas City had now acted, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, to establish the following 
rates: 
4-3/4 per cent (rather than 5 per cent) on advances and dis-
counts to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve 
Act; 5-1/4 per cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of 
the Act; and 6-3/4 per cent (except 7 per cent in the case of Richmond) 
on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
The 
directors of the Kansas City Bank had established a discount rate of 
4-1/2 per cent, but had indicated that they alternatively would establish 
a rate of 4-3/4 per cent. 
A table had been furnished to the Board members showing the 
current relationship of the discount rate to short-term market interest 
i • 
, j . 
rates. 
The table revealed that there had been a general widening of the 
spreads. 
In discussion, the Chairman noted that the Board had recently 
had a rather thorough discussion of the subject, that although a number 
of the members were then disposed to act on the discount rate it had been 
decided to wait for the Open Market Committee meeting and receive the 
views of the Reserve Bank Presidents, that the sentiments of the Presi-
dents had been heard, and that the rate proposals from 11 of the Reserve 
Banks were now before the Board. 
Among other considerations, this 

4 0 S 
2/12/71 
-3-
created the risk that a leak might occur if the Board did not act 
promptly. 
The Chairman also stated that he had talked with Mr. Volcker, 
Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary Affairs, who appreciated 
the factors favoring a discount rate change even though he was a bit 
concerned about the prospective foreign reaction, and with Mr. Holmes, 
the Manager of the System Open Market Account, who felt that a rate 
change of the magnitude involved would not have any significant influence 
on markets here. 
In terms of timing, consideration was given to whether or not it 
would be advisable to defer action until after the Chairman's forthcoming 
testimony before the Joint Economic Committee, scheduled for next Friday. 
An argument advanced for deferment was that action prior to the testi-
mony might lead to interim misunderstandings regarding the posture of 
System policy, which presumably would be spelled out fully in the testi-
mony. 
However, it was the prevailing view that discount rate action in 
advance of the testimony would be preferable for several reasons, 
including the fact that the possibility of questions arising during the 
testimony concerning the prospect of such action would be eliminated. 
Also, the discount rate action could be explained on technical grounds 
and its announcement in that context prior to the forthcoming long week-
end should help to keep the matter in low key. 
Further, the rate move, 
although fairly insignificant in itself, might be regarded as reflecting 

2/12/71 
-4-
an awareness on the part of the Federal Reserve to Administration 
thinking with regard to measures needed to deal with current domestic 
economic problems. 
On the substantive question, a majority of the Board members 
present concluded that the proposed discount rate reduction was in 
order. 
It was believed that the existing rates spreads justified such 
a move as an action to bring the discount rate into better alignment 
with short-term market rates, that the action would be in keeping with 
the System's efforts in recent months toward achieving more flexibility 
through smaller and more frequent changes in the rate, that failure to 
announce a rate change in the present circumstances might be regarded 
by the market as a tightening factor, with a consequent back-up in 
market rates, and that there were no compelling reasons not to go along 
with the judgment that had been expressed by the directors of 11 of the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
Two members of the Board (Governors Daane and Brimmer) expressed 
their inclination to dissent from approval of a discount rate reduction 
at this time, but on somewhat different grounds. 
Governor Daane's 
reservations were based primarily on international considerations, 
including recognition of the problems that countries abroad were 
experiencing with their own economies and their own rates. 
Although he 
had never been enthusiastic about adopting the practice of more flexi-
bility in discount rate adjustments, at least to the point that they 

414 
2/12/71 
-5-
approached automaticity, he felt that in all the circumstances there 
was probably little alternative in practical terms to approval of the 
rate change that had been proposed by 11 of the Reserve Banks. 
Never-
theless, he believed that something might be said for the registering 
of his dissenting vote as evidence of the 
concern that in his opinion 
should be attached to international considerations. 
Governor Brimmer's view reflected principally his belief that 
the advantages of a discount rate reduction at this time were not 
entirely persuasive, that short-term interest rates had already moved 
down too far too rapidly, and that the discount rate change would be 
interpreted as meaning that the Federal Reserve was anxious to see rates 
continue to fall at an accelerated pace. 
The question was debated further in the light of the several 
considerations that had been advanced pro and con, and a tentative vote 
was then taken which showed that four Board members were prepared to 
approve the discount rate reduction today while two members were not so 
inclined. 
An opinion was expressed that the absent Board member (Governor 
Sherrill) probably would favor the proposed change, although that had not 
been verified. 
The discussion then turned to the likely consequences if approval 
of the lower discount rate were announced and it was made known that 
there had been one or more dissenting votes. 
A view was stated that it 
probably would become necessary, either in Congressional testimony or 

414 
2/12/71 
-6-
otherwise, to explain the reasons for a dissenting vote in some detail 
and that there might be efforts in some quarters to escalate the matter 
to the level of a purported policy split within the Board. 
It was also 
suggested that indication that a dissenting vote had been cast on the 
basis of international considerations might serve to give prominence 
to international problems and create further speculation as to the 
delicacy of the situation. 
Governor Daane then expressed his desire to confer briefly by 
telephone with Under Secretary Volcker, and he withdrew from the room 
for that purpose. 
During Governor Daane's absence, there was a brief discussion 
of possibilities for moving forward to a decision on the problem of 
Nassau shell branches, and comments were made on staff work now in 
process. 
It was suggested that the Board might want to act without 
) 
further delay on pending applications from individual banks, with indi-
cation to the banks concerned, if their applications were approved, that 
the broad question of Nassau branch operations was under searching study 
and that the groundrules might be changed. 
Governor Daane then returned to the room and said it now appeared 
to him that the recording of a dissenting vote on a discount rate reduction 
out of international considerations might tend to soften the adverse 
reaction that could be anticipated abroad, but that the result would be 
less clear on the domestic side in view of the possible implications of 
a division of opinion on Federal Reserve policy. 
Although he still 

414 
2/12/71 
-7-
considered a discount rate move at this time unfortunate from the inter-
national point of view, Governor Daane recognized the points that had 
been made in favor of a unified Board position. 
Therefore, he would 
reluctantly join the other members of the Board in voting for approval. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the issues had been debated 
at some length and seemed to be rather narrowly drawn, and that he 
also would therefore vote reluctantly to approve the discount rate 
reduction. 
Accordingly, the Board approved unanimously the establishment 
of the following rates by all of the Federal Reserve Banks except New 
York, effective February 13, 1971: 
4-3/4 per cent on advances and 
discounts to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 
Reserve Act; 5-1/4 per cent on advances to member banks under section 
10(b) of the Act; and 6-3/4 per cent (except in the case of the Richmond 
Bank, which remained at 7 per cent) on advances to individuals, partner-
ships, and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph 
of section 13 of the Act. 
It was reported that the retention by the Richmond Bank of the 
7 per cent rate reflected a misunderstanding, and the Secretary was 
authorized to advise the Richmond Bank of approval of a rate of 6-3/4 
per cent if such rate should be established by the directors of that Bank. 
(Note: 
That rate was subsequently approved, effective February 26, 1971.) 

414 
2/12/71 
-8-
The Secretary was also authorized to advise the New York Reserve 
Bank of the Board's approval of the establishment of a 4-3/4 per cent 
discount rate for that Bank, along with corresponding subsidiary rates, 
if the directors of the Bank should establish such rates. 
(Note: 
Such 
rates were subsequently established and were approved effective 
February 19, 1971.) 
01 ) O 
l 
:' i > j ' \ 
. • 
I •• V • ' ..« 
, 
• ; 
* 
• • 
j 
In the case of the Kansas City Bank, as noted previously the 
directors had established a discount rate of 4-1/2 per cent, but with 
indication that they would alternatively establish a rate of 4-3/4 per 
cent. 
It was understood that prior to Board announcement of the discount 
rate action the necessary steps would be taken to place the Kansas City 
directors on record as establishing the 4-3/4 per cent rate. 
The text of the press release that would be issued by the Board 
on the discount rate change was discussed, and the issuance of a press 
release in the form attached as Item No. 1 was authorized. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

# 
415 
^P® liil w'7 
i;> '4 :" 
' 
! 
-f^LRf^' 
Item No. 1 
2/12/71 
For immediate release. 
February 12, 1971. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of Boston, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
reducing the discount rate of those banks from 5 per cent to 4-3/4 
per cent, effective Saturday, February 13. 
The reduction accords with the System's recent practice 
of making small changes in the discount rate from time to time to 
keep it in closer alignment with short-term market rates. 
The discount rate is the rate charged member banks on 
borrowings from their district Federal Reserve Banks. 
-0-
