FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 18, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. (Meeting with Federal Advisory Council) 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
\ 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchel1 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

1540 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C. , at 10:30 a.m. 
on Friday, June 18, 1971. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Meyer, Dorrance, Fangboner, 
Barr, Bassett, Freeman, Morgan, Reardon, 
Miller, and Gray, Members of the Federal 
Advisory Council from the First, Second, 
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, 
Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
Mr. Clausen, Member of the Council from the Twelfth Federal 
Reserve District, was unable to be present, and in his absence the 
District was represented by Mr. Frederick G. Larkin, Jr., Chairman 
of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, Security Pacific National 
Bank, Los Angeles, California. 
1. Economic and financial developments and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity and resource use over 
the balance of the year? In particular, how do 

1541 
6/18/71 
-2-
Council members assess consumer attitudes 
toward spending and current and prospective 
developments in retail trade? What is the 
outlook for business spending for plant 
and equipment and for inventories over the 
remaining months of 1971? 
Although the improvement in business has so far been somewhat 
spotty, the members of the Council anticipate a continued gradual rise 
in the level of business activity over the balance of the year. Business 
in the first half of the year was aided initially by the accelerated rise 
in automobile production as manufacturers attempted to make up for time 
lost by the strike last fall. In more recent months, the stockpiling of 
steel, in expectation of a strike in that industry, has contributed to 
the accelerating pace of business. 
The anticipated rising level of business activity will require 
some greater use of the nations's productive resources, but a significant 
proportion of plant capacity is likely still to be idle at year-end, and 
about 5-1/2 per cent of the labor force unemployed. The sharp increase 
in housing starts in 1971 over 1970 is one of the encouraging aspects in 
the economy. 
Consumers seem to continue somewhat apprehensive about the 
future, but there is increasing evidence that they are stepping up their 
spending plans. This is confirmed by some improvement in retail sales. 
Only a moderate rise in business spending for plant and equip-
ment is anticipated over the remaining months of 1971. This will reflect 
the continuance of considerable unused productive capacity notwithstanding 
the modest rise in demand now under way. Business spending for inventories 
is likely to increase. The published inventory sales ratios have dropped 
in recent months, and there have been occasional reports indicating that 
inventories are at low levels. Inventory growth in the first quarter was 
also quite modest. Accordingly, some step-up in overall inventory accumu-
lation is widely anticipated notwithstanding the liquidation of steel 
stocks in the third quarter. 
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
B. How do Council members appraise the current and 
prospective state of business loan demand? To 
what extent are business borrowers making use 
of the capital markets to repay business loans 

±548 
6/18/71 
-3-
or to meet financing needs that might otherwise 
be accommodated through term loans? Are there 
significant changes occurring, or in prospect, 
with respect to overall bank lending policies? 
There is at present a wide variation in loan demand over the 
country. In general, the members of the Council expect loan demand to 
rise more than seasonal in the months ahead as economic recovery con-
tinues. This would be characteristic of loan behavior during this stage 
of the business cycle. 
Moreover, most members of the Council report an increased volume 
of loan commitment requests, which also may result later in a rise in 
business loan demand. Many of the major corporate borrowers have used 
proceeds obtained in the capital markets to repay business loans or to 
meet financing needs that might otherwise be accommodated through term 
loans. However, it is impossible to quantify this in any precise way. 
The members of the Council reported no significant changes have 
occurred or are in prospect with respect to overall bank lending policies. 
Many of the money center banks are aggressively seeking additional good 
quality business loans. 
In response to questions regarding the extent to which banks 
had to compete with the capital markets or with insurance companies in 
making term loans, Council members indicated that banks were mainly in 
competition with each other at the present time in the market for 
intermediate-term business credit. It was noted that bank term loans 
normally were extended for periods of one to seven years, and occasionally 
eight years, while publicly offered capital market issues usually had 
maturities of 15 to 25 years and insurance companies were inclined to 
extend credit for longer terms than banks at current interest rate levels. 
Bank term loans were presently being made at considerably lower rates 
than were available in the capital markets and involved a good deal of 

1543 
6/18/71 
-4-
negotiation and variation with regard to terms. One Council member 
noted that term loans at his bank were at an all-time high and loan 
commitments were increasing constantly. 
Governor Mitchell said he was somewhat puzzled by the extent 
to which business corporations were resorting to capital market issues 
and thus putting upward pressure on long-term interest rates generally. 
It seemed to him that the prospective volume of business spending for 
plant and equipment did not justify such pressure on long-term debt 
markets, especially when term loans were readily available. 
President Meyer responded that there were several reasons why 
corporations wanted to sell long-term debt under present circumstances. 
One reason was to fund bank loans that were of too long standing or 
too large in size. A second, and perhaps more important, reason was 
the existence of Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits). After their 
experience in 1966 and ensuing years, corporations were concerned about 
the continuing ability of banks to take care of their legitimate needs 
because of uncertainties relating to possible future Regulation Q 
constraints on bank access to funds. In order to provide insurance 
against a drying up of bank funds, corporations were resorting to the 
capital markets to improve their liquidity. However, they were also 
maintaining their claims on banks through paid loan commitments. The 
fee paid, which resulted in a contractual obligation to a bank, made 
the loan commitment a relatively inexpensive form of insurance that 

1544 
6/18/71 
-5-
facilitated planning for what corporations deemed to be legitimate 
future financing needs, including anti-pollution projects that were 
increasingly being required by law or social pressure. 
Governor Brimmer inquired how banks, with increasing fee-paid 
loan commitments, expected to be able to meet the resulting obligations 
in the future. Responses indicated that usage of lines of credit and 
even of paid loan commitments was typically far below 100 per cent. 
A bank could obtain funds in various ways when called upon to honor 
commitments, including the sale of assets if necessary, but basically 
banks expected to be able to borrow the needed funds. 
Members of the Board expressed concern that banks might at 
some point find themselves unable to borrow enough funds to honor their 
commitments if the latter continued to rise. However, one member 
observed that if banks had not expanded their commitments substantially, 
corporations probably would have gone into the capital market on an even 
larger scale and the run-up in long-term interest rates might have 
been sharper. 
Council members commented that at some point, of course, 
uncertainty about obtaining funds in the future could serve to curb bank 
loan commitment policies. However, that point had not been reached 
and if the economy was to continue moving forward, businesses had to 
have assurances that they would have access to funds when needed. 

1515 
l 
1 
6/18/71 
-6-
Moreover, the ability of the Federal Reserve to influence the timing 
and cost of business borrowing would be greater if the funds came from 
the banking system than if they came from other sources. 
Chairman Burns and Governor Brimmer spoke of the danger that 
banks might overextend themselves and then expect the Federal Reserve 
to bail them out. While the System might be forced to such a course, 
A 
it would be at the expense of control over the volume of money and 
bank credit. The danger did not lie so much with overextension by any 
individual bank but in the collective effect. 
There ensued comments regarding the data that banks had begun 
j I 
to compile recently on total credit lines and commitments. The figures 
were large, but Council members suggested they had to be viewed in the 
perspective of total balance sheets and of the historical ability of 
banks to meet their commitments through various means. 
One member of the Council suggested that it was a remote but 
nevertheless real possibility that drawings on bank commitments could 
reach such aggregate amounts that the Federal Reserve might have to 
provide liquidity to a significant number of banks. In his view such 
a possibility had actually existed for some years. Banks could not 
afford to carry extra billions of Treasury bills to bridge the potential 
gap between funds they would be able to borrow and the amounts they might 
need to honor commitments in unusual periods of extremely tight money. 
I 
- 
i 

1516 
6/18/71 
-7-
Bankers were assuming that the Federal Reserve would help them if 
necessary, but also that any such assistance might be accompanied by 
restrictions or penalties, including curbs against further loan increases. 
Chairman Burns said that, speaking for himself, he was not 
prepared to say that the Federal Reserve would or should validate 
whatever volume of commitments banks might choose to incur; it was 
incumbent upon banks to observe the rule of prudence. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the level of bank 
commitments should be higher in the light of current economic circum-
stances. He did not think the issue should be the potential necessity 
of having the Federal Reserve bail out the banks so long as the latter 
were allowed continued access to the markets. In 1966 and again in 
1969 the Federal Reserve had cut off such access, partly because of 
the condition of savings and loan associations, but in his view such 
access should not be denied in the future. The question then became 
whether or not the banking system would be willing to bail itself out, 
and he thought it would. 
The view was expressed that Governor Mitchell's thesis was 
sound on the assumption that commitments were not made at a fixed rate. 
Ensuing comments brought out that most commitments currently were made 
at a floating rate, with the prime rate as a base. 
Members of the Board observed that loan commitments were made 
primarily to business corporations. It followed that in a period of 

154' 
6/18/71 
-8-
monetary restraint funds would tend to be cut off for other bank 
customers as corporations drew on their commitments. The problem had 
strong political overtones and needed to be solved if unwise legislation 
was to be avoided. 
Responding comments by members of the Council emphasized that 
the problem had been alleviated to some extent in recent years by the 
growth of Government lending agencies whose function was to raise funds 
in the market for relending especially in the housing and farm sectors 
of the economy. It was also noted that banks were unlikely to curb 
their consumer loan activities in a period of tight money. It was 
conceded, however, that the availability of funds for housing remained 
a real potential problem. Council members indicated that banks were 
giving increased attention to mortgage loans, either through efforts 
to make money available directly or through acquisition of mortgage 
companies and participation in real estate investment trusts. However, 
factors other than availability of mortgage money affected the housing 
market, such as rising costs of construction and bankruptcies among 
contractors, and accordingly there were no readily apparent solutions 
to this politically sensitive problem. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that in the present political 
climate bankers would be well advised to increase their efforts to make 
funds available to the residential mortgage market. He noted that 
politicians had repeatedly drawn unfavorable attention to the mortgage 

±548 
6/18/71 
-9-
1ending record of commercial banks, and suggested that the FAC members, 
as individuals or through their associations, exert their influence to 
help alleviate the problem. 
C. How do Council members view recent international 
monetary developments, including the changes in 
foreign countries' exchange rates? What measures, 
if any, would they recommend for adoption by the 
U.S. Government? 
There are widely varying views regarding measures which the 
U.S. Government should adopt relative to the international monetary 
situation. 
While recent developments were aggravated by the massive movement 
of short-term funds in response to interest rate differentials and views 
as to currency values, the basic problem reflects the persistent deficit 
in the U.S. balance of payments and the resulting growth in foreign hold-
ings of U.S. dollars. The deficit is a result in large part of a deteri-
oration in the competitive position of U.S. products in international 
markets.' 
The members of the Council strongly believe that the thrust of 
U.S. policies should be threefold. First, it is important to lessen the 
rate of inflation in the United States, thus bringing our costs under 
better control and making our prices more competitive in world markets. 
Second, it is essential to pursue a "hard line" in negotiations with our 
overseas trading partners in an effort to lower and/or dismantle present 
barriers to U.S. products and investment. Third, it is imperative that 
the United States examine critically all governmental outlays overseas 
with the objective of reducing them as far as possible consistent with 
our own security. 
The members of the Council support the program outlined by 
the Chairman of the Board on various occasions, including his address at 
the International Banking Conference in Munich. The Council believes the 
proposed incomes policy aggressively pursued should be helpful in reduc-
ing the present rate of inflation. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Council members had any 
special impressions regarding the behavior of corporations in moving 
funds abroad during late April and early May. 

6/18/71 
-10-
Members of the Council indicated that they had no special 
knowledge of purely speculative activity, but they noted that corpora-
tions doing business in international markets normally tried to cover 
their positions as a matter of prudent business practice when they 
anticipated a foreign exchange market crisis. The members cited some 
specific examples that had come to their attention, including covering 
purchases of foreign exchange by American firms that had sold bonds 
denominated in foreign currencies. There appeared to have been little 
activity by American banks for their own accounts, but many banks 
apparently had felt it was their responsibility to advise customers to 
cover open-ended positions. 
D. Have the sales of securities by the Export-Import 
Bank and the U.S. Treasury to foreign branches 
of American banks helped significantly to change 
the attitudes of U.S. banks toward the mainte-
nance of their remaining Eurodollar borrowings? 
The sales of securities by the Export-Import Bank and the U.S. 
Treasury to foreign branches of American banks were constructive. However, 
these sales have not significantly changed the attitudes of American banks 
toward the maintenance of their remaining Eurodollar base. The reluctance 
to maintain borrowings probably has been strengthened in recent weeks with 
the rise in Eurodollar rates resulting from the recent disturbance that 
marked the foreign exchange markets in Europe. 
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
2. Regulatory matters. 
A. What are the views of the Council regarding H.R. 8181, 
the "Export Expansion Finance Act of 1971," which 
would require Federal Reserve Banks to discount 
certain commercial paper endorsed by Federally 
insured banks and used to finance U.S. exports? 

1550 
6/18/71 
-11-
The members of the Council do not believe it is advisable for 
a central bank to function as an allocator of credit to specific indus-
tries and/or activities. The commercial banks functioning in the market 
place should continue to play this role while the central bank determines 
and implements general monetary policy. 
The Council therefore does not favor H.R. 8181 which would 
require Federal Reserve Banks to discount certain commercial paper endorsed 
by Federally insured banks and used to finance exports. 
It was noted in the discussion that the Bankers Association for 
Foreign Trade had given strong support to the proposed legislation, but 
the Association represented only the position of bank officials immedi-
ately concerned with the financing of foreign trade and not the position 
of the banking industry as a whole. Members of the Board commented that 
the efforts of the group had caused confusion in that it was not generally 
understood that they spoke only for a specialized segment of the banking 
industry. Suggestion was made that the members of the Council use what-
ever means they thought proper to express the over-all banking industry 
viewpoint, because the outcome of the proposed legislation was uncertain. 
One member of the Council noted that while bankers in his district 
concerned with the financing of foreign business had strongly endorsed 
proposals to assist export financing, they did not believe that the 
Federal Reserve should be used as a vehicle. 
B. Would the Council undertake to convey to the Board, 
at this meeting or subsequently, views of the mem-
bers with regard to the present structure of reserve 
requirements and the direction in which such require-
ments might be changed in the interests of achieving 
a more equitable structure that would also be con-
sistent with effective implementation of monetary 
policy? 

1551 
6/18/71 
-12-
The members of the Council believe that the all-important func-
tion of reserve requirements is to provide an appropriate fulcrum for 
general monetary policy and that the best system of reserve requirements 
is one that performs that function most efficiently and equitably. Of 
the various proposals which have been made over the years, the same 
reserve requirements extended to all commercial banks seem to us to serve 
the purposes set forth above better than other alternatives. At present, 
monetary policy is effected by pressure on a declining share of the total 
deposit base of the nation. This could be corrected in part at least by 
requiring that reserve requirements apply uniformly to all banks. 
The members of the Council also suggest that consideration 
might be given to making reserve requirements a more flexible instrument 
of monetary policy, possibly through small and more frequent changes over 
a wider range. 
The Council believes that recent proposals to employ varying 
reserve requirements related to asset holdings or asset acquisitions of 
member banks are misguided. Such a system of asset reserves might alter 
bank credit flows in the intended direction. But it is also evident 
that there would be a reciprocal modification of the flow of non-bank 
credit. It is not realistic to assume that a large prime credit business 
corporation can be forced to modify expenditure plans which it has 
otherwise determined to be both profitable and appropriate by making 
bank loans less readily available and/or more expensive than other forms 
of credit. The idea that economic activity can be regulated at all 
efficiently by selectively penalizing a single group of financial 
intermediaries is not supportable. 
The long run adverse implications are serious. Over a period 
of time this sort of interference, or induced inefficiency, in the flow 
of credit through banks to businesses could easily result in the substan-
tial removal of banks from the channels through which business finances 
itself. Businesses could turn to direct market financing, to existing 
non-bank financial intermediaries and, perhaps more importantly, to new 
finance companies that would be organized specifically for the purpose 
of providing a channel through which businesses might raise the funds 
they require. Quite apart from the negative implications of such a 
development for commercial banking, this has obvious adverse implica-
tions for the financial system, for monetary policy, and for the economy. 
The present system of reserve requirements might also function 
more smoothly if the allowance for the carryover of surplus reserves 
were increased from 2 per cent to 10 per cent. 

1552 
6/18/71 
-13-
The 2 per cent allowance is insufficient to prevent rather 
wide fluctuations in the Federal funds rate which sometimes require size-
able defensive operations. An increase in the allowance to 10 per cent 
might substantially reduce these disruptive and often misleading gyra-
tions in the funds rate without in any way lessening the effectiveness 
of monetary policy, either in the current period or in a subsequent 
period when a more restrictive monetary policy might be appropriate. 
In addition, many bankers believe that the requirement of reserves 
on time deposits tends to discriminate against intermediation within the 
banking system in contrast to intermediation through non-bank intermedi-
aries and direct market transactions. 
In response to a question, President Meyer verified that the 
Council advocated a reduction and eventual elimination of reserve 
requirements against time deposits. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that allowing a 2 per cent 
carryover of excess reserves and a two-week lag in the computation of 
reserves had been a mistake. He agreed that banks might now have more 
leeway in their operations, but he thought the management of monetary 
. 
i 
• f 
< 
V • 7 - 
* 
policy had been made more difficult as a result. 
Discussion brought out that the Council's view regarding a 
larger reserve carryover stemmed from problems inherent in day-to-day 
operations. With a substantial volume of transactions and inadequate 
communications and mail, it was difficult for a bank to know precisely 
what its current reserve position was. As a result, the Federal funds 
rate tended to fluctuate fairly sharply, especially around the end of 
the statement week, as banks were forced to make unexpected reserve 
adjustments, and borrowings at the discount window also tended to be 

1553 
6/18/71 
-14-
higher than necessary. In the Council's view a larger carryover 
privilege would significantly reduce gyrations in the Federal funds 
rate. 
Chairman Burns said he had been concerned about the two-week 
lag in reserves from the viewpoint of the difficulties created for the 
interpretation of the reserve statistics. He urged the Council members, 
after consulting with the staffs of their banks, to convey their views 
to him regarding whether the lagged reserves procedure should be 
continued or abandoned. 
3. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under present circumstances? 
In preparing its response to this question, the Council found 
that its conclusions now are substantially in accord with those expressed 
in the joint meeting with the Board on February 5, 1971. 
The members of the Council are unanimous in their view that 
the Regulation Q ceilings should be suspended on large-denomination 
money market instruments ($100,000 and above) and that this is the 
opportune time to take such action. 
The Council recognizes the pressures for expansionary monetary 
and credit policies and urges nothing more than a moderately expansive 
policy under current circumstances. As indicated in the first paragraph 
of this section, we should like to reiterate the concern we expressed in 
February that an overly aggressive policy of expansion in the months 
ahead will accelerate inflation, threaten renewed pressure on our gold 
and international reserve assets, and lay the foundations for major 
dislocations in the economy. 
In further amplification of their views, members of the Council 
suggested that because interest rates were not currently under upward 
pressure, the present was a good time to suspend Regulation Q ceilings 

1.554 
6/18/71 
-15-
on large denomination certificates of deposit. Moreover, since current 
rates on such certificates were below Regulation Q ceilings, there 
would not be any immediate impact on the availability of CD funds to 
banks and probably also no adverse impact on expectations regarding 
the course of monetary policy. Council members also felt that the 
suspension would tend to moderate current borrowing pressures and 
interest rates in the bond markets, since corporations would become 
more optimistic about the future ability of banks to meet their finan-
cing needs. The Council members were of the opinion that, once sus-
pended, the ceilings should not be reimposed except for the most 
compelling reasons. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the Council's judgment about 
the present expansiveness of monetary policy was based on money supply 
statistics or some other measures. Ensuing comments emphasized that 
in the effort to simplify a complex subject there was a temptation to 
stress one or another measure. However, the view was expressed that 
monetary aggregates had been receiving greater attention than their 
\ » 
v 
• • 
1 '*: 
>"j 
. k - ' 
•. i 
• 
. -
significance justified. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the inadequacies of money supply 
statistics had prompted the Board to indicate that it would like to 
discuss with the members of the Council the advisability of moving 
in timely fashion to place U.S. bank payments in settlement of inter-
national transactions on a "Federal funds" (i.e., same-day) payment basis. 

1555 
6/18/71 
-16-
In continuing comments he described the difficulties that current 
clearing practices had created for the estimation of money supply 
statistics, and the substantial adjustments which had been required 
in those statistics. The settlement of international transactions 
in immediately available funds seemed to hold promise of obviating some 
of the difficulties and making the statistics both more easily compiled 
and more reliable. 
Several members of the Council expressed the view that the 
change would be a valuable step forward, and others expressed no objection 
to the arrangement. President Meyer outlined the difficulties which 
the Clearing House Interbank Payments System (CHIPS) group was encoun-
tering in preparing for the shift to a Federal funds basis, including 
the involvement of both domestic and foreign banks and the large volume 
of transactions that were affected. 
4. Members of the Council would like to discuss further 
the subject of ineligible bankers acceptances. 
(This 
topic was previously discussed at the meeting of 
November 6, 1970.) 
The Council would like to take the occasion of this meeting to 
suggest again that the Board give further consideration to the subject 
of ineligible bankers acceptances as a money market instrument that 
might prove exceptionally useful. 
There was agreement with a suggestion by President Meyer that 
the staff of his bank, which had given a great deal of attention to 
the possibility of increasing the role of ineligible acceptances, 
work with the staffs of the Board and the Reserve Banks in an effort 

1556 
6/18/71 
-17-
to resolve certain questions, especially those relating to difference 
of treatment between national banks and State banks. 
In further discussion, Messrs. Bassett and Barr spoke of the 
desirability of a single class of reserve requirements rather than the 
present system based on banks in reserve cities and those located 
elsewhere. As the new payments mechanism became effective, the theo-
retical justification for the reserve city classification would be 
virtually eliminated because interbank deposits would greatly diminish. 
Also contributing to the same result was the development of regional 
clearing facilities by the Federal Reserve. Members of the Board 
called attention to the Board's recommendations to Congress regarding 
reserve requirements, which included the discontinuance of location 
categories and the extension of reserve requirements to all institutions 
that accepted demand deposits. Council members indicated that they 
would like to report to the Board more fully after additional study. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council would be 
held on September 16-17, 1971, instead of on September 2-3, 1971, as 
provided for in the Council's by-laws. 
\ 
„ 
, " 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
