Minutes for 
April 25 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the S ecretary s Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

1397 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
f 
System on Friday, April 25, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman!/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Winkler of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Sigel, Williams, 
Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Weiner, Baker, 
Beck, Burns, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and 
Kichline, and Miss Stockwell of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Irvine, 
Norwood, Gemmill, Pizer, Bradshaw, 
Bryant, Gekker, Maroni, and Stem, and 
Mrs. Junz of the Division of International 
Finanee 
- 
• 
? ! 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports by Mr. Keir on the Government securities market, by Mr. Eckert 
on bank credit developments, by Mr. Ettin on the corporate and munic-
ipal bond markets, and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
markets. Copies of the documentation prepared for the purpose of 
II 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
; if

1338 
4/25/69 
-2-
The following then entered: 
Messrs. Fisher, Gehman, Trueblood, Wendel, Wetzel, 
and Zeisel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Kohn, Mills, and Roxon, and Mrs. MacDonald 
of the Division of International Finance 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of international 
developments and domestic business and financial conditions of the kind 
customarily given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. The reports were based to some extent on materials that had 
been prepared for Tuesday's Committee meeting, and copies of the relevant 
documentation have been placed in the Committee's files. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting during the course of 
the review to keep another commitment. Following the economic review 
members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Molony, Coyne, 
Nichols, and Reynolds, and Mrs. Winkler withdrew and the following entered 
Messrs. Hexter and Shay of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Leavitt, Egertson, Maguire, and Shantz, and 
Miss Hart of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and Statistics 
The following actions were taken subject to ratification at the 
next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present: 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on April 22 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas 
City, and Dallas on April 24, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances 

1399 
4/25/69 
-3-
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Laconia National Bank, 
Laconia, New Hampshire, and The Peoples National Bank of Laconia. As 
drafted, the conclusion would state that the overall effect of the 
merger would be substantially adverse. 
During discussion of the report Governor Mitchell stated reasons 
why he believed the conclusion should be changed from substantially 
adverse to adverse. He suggested language along the following lines: 
Consummation of the merger would eliminate the 
substantial direct competition between the two banks, 
and the competitive effect of the merger would there-
fore be adverse. However, since there are four other 
commercial banks and six savings banks in the area, 
the adverse competitive effect may be, relative to the 
service and banking considerations, a minor factor. 
Governor Sherrill commented that he thought Governor Mitchell 
had stated the situation accurately. 
Governor Maisel said that he would like more information con-
cerning the area in question, and Governor Mitchell then suggested that 
action on the report be deferred with the understanding that it would 
be revised along the lines suggested and resubmitted with additional 
information of the kind requested by Governor Maisel. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made available 

• 
4/25/69 
to the Board 
indicated. 
- 4 -
Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
Item No 
Letter to the New York State Banking 
Department interposing no objection to 
the establishment of an agency in New 
York City by Bank Melli Iran, Tehran, 
Iran. 
Letters to the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Boston and Atlanta requesting those 
Banks to ascertain why B. C. Morton 
Financial Organization, Inc., Bankers 
Financial Equity Company, and Sumner 
Financial Corporation had not registered 
under Regulation G (Credit by Persons 
other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Equity Securities). 
The meeting then adjourned. 
2-3 
Secretary 

1401 
BOARD CDF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/25/69 
Mr. James P. Gargan, 
Assistant Deputy Superintendent, 
State of New York Banking Department, 
100 Church Street, 
New York, New York. 
10007 
Dear Mr. Gargan: 
This refers, to your letter of April 15, 1969, 
requesting the views of the Board of Governors regarding 
the application of Bank Melli Iran, Tehran, Iran, for a 
license to establish an agency in New York. 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection 
to establishment of the proposed agency. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
April 25, 1969 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

14G2 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OVGOV;- 
O F T H E 
I t e m No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/25/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1969. 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone, 
Vice President and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts, 
02106. 
Dear Mr. Stone: 
During an inspection in October 1968, of Nationwide Investment 
Corporation ("N.I.C."), a registered "G" lender with offices in Beverly 
Hills, California, our staff obtained information that B.C. Morton 
Financial Organization, Inc., ("B.C. Morton") and Bankers Financial 
Equity Company ("Bankers") were arranging loans for N.I.C. with banks 
in your District. 
Section 207.1(a) of Regulation G provides that every person 
who, in the ordinary course of his business, in any calendar quarter 
ending after October 20, 1967, arranges for the extension of a total of 
$50,000 or more in credit that is secured, directly or indirectly, by 
any registered equity securities (or if there is outstanding during the 
quarter $100,000 in such credit which such person has so arranged), must 
register with the Board of Governors within 30 days following the end of 
the quarter by filing Federal Reserve Form G-l with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of the district in which the person's principal office is located. 
Available materials indicated that B.C. Morton and Bankers have arranged 
such credit in the amounts stated, but it does not appear from the records 
°f the Board that they have so registered. 
In the same connection, advertisements in the Eastern and 
Pacific Coast Editions of the Wall Street Journal announce that "Harry 
Magazine has joined our firm as Vice President of our Boston Office 
specializing in Bank Time Deposits and Commercial Paper." The firm is 
identified as 
Nationwide Securities Corporation, 
111 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts, 
Subsidiary of 
Nationwide Investment Corporation. 

1403 
J. 
Mr. Laurence H. Stone 
-2-
You have been furnished with all information relating to the 
N.I.C. inspection and chronologies of subsequent developments. It 
would be appreciated if you could arrange to have members of your staff 
visit B.C. Morton and Harry Magazine to determine why they have not 
registered pursuant to section 207.4(a) and what constitutes Mr. Magazine's 
function in the N.I.C. operation. In addition, it would be helpful if 
your staff could determine the extent of loans arranged by B.C. Morton 
and Bankers for Nationwide Investment Corporation, North American 
Investment Company, and Eastern Investment Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1404 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
4/25/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1969. 
Mr. Robert E. Heck, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Heck: 
During an inspection in October 1968 of Nationwide Investment 
Corporation ("N.I.C."), a registered "G" lender with offices in Beverly 
Hills, California, our staff obtained information that Sumner Financial 
Corporation in Jacksonville, Florida ("Sumner"), was arranging loans for 
N.I.C. with institutions in your District. 
Enclosed are copies of letters and forms showing the arrange-
ments and the fees paid by N.I.C. to Sumner. Also enclosed is a photo 
copy of an ad of Sumners appearing in the Pacific Coast Edition of the 
Wall Street Journal. 
Section 207.1(a) of Regulation G provides that every person 
who, in the ordinary course of his business, in any calendar quarter 
ending after October 20, 1967, arranges for the extension of a total 
of $50,000 or more in credit that is secured, directly or indirectly, 
by any registered equity securities (or if there is outstanding during 
the quarter $100,000 in such credit which such persons has so arranged), 
must register with the Board of Governors within 30 days following the 
end of the quarter by filing Federal Reserve Form G-l with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of the district in which the person's principal office is 
located. The enclosed materials indicate that Sumner has arranged such 
credit in the amounts stated, but it does not appear from the records 
of the Board that they have so registered. Accordingly, it would be 
appreciated if you could arrange to have members of your staff visit 
Sumner to determine why they have not registered, and to ascertain the 
extent of loans arranged by Sumner for N.I.C., Eastern Investment 
Corporation, and North American Investment Company. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosures 
