Minutes for February 28, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 10 
Reduction in reserve requirements against 
savings deposits, Christmas and vacation 
club accounts, and certain time deposits. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

744 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 28, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
iniii 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. 0'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, and Robinson, 
Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
i/ Attended afternoon session only. 

745 
2/28/67 
-10-
Item No. 
Letters to The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, 
1-2 
Hartford, Connecticut, approving the establishment 
of branches (1) at Market and Water Streets, and 
(2) at Main Street and Rose Alley, both in Norwich. 
Letter to Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia, 
3 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
Letter to Potomac Valley Bank, Petersburg, West 
4 
Virginia, approving an investment in bank premises. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta approv- 
5 
ing the payment of salary to George H. Gaffney as 
Assistant Cashier at the Jacksonville Branch at the 
rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
6 
interposing no objection to the Bank's taking an 
option on real estate adjoining the Omaha Branch 
building. 
In connection with Item No. 6, it was noted that the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City desired to take a 30-day option for $500 
(with an agreement to renew the option for two additional 30-day 
periods at $500 each) on property adjoining the Omaha Branch, and to 
make a comprehensive study of the feasibility of using the property 
for construction of a security court and to provide parking facilities. 
The option would enable the purchase of the property for a total price 
of $186,170. The taking of an option for purchase of real estate does 
not require prior approval by the Board. However, the Reserve Bank 
was asking for approval in this instance because it had not previously 
informed the Board of the general proposal to acquire the property for 
bank premises purposes. 

746 
2/28/67 
-3-
Bank of the Commonwealth (Item No. 7). By order dated 
September 23, 1966, the Board approved the application of Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, to acquire the assets and assume the 
deposit liabilities of Public Bank, also of Detroit. The statement 
accompanying the Board's order indicated that the anticompetitive 
effects of the transaction would be clearly outweighed in the public 
interest. 
Subsequently, a suit was instituted in the United States 
District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan by a stockholder-
director of Public Bank seeking damages pursuant to a provision of the 
Clayton Act. Among the defendants named were the two banks involved, 
the Commissioner of Banking for the State of Michigan, and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Counsel representing one or more of the defendants contemplated 
filing motions to dismiss and for summary judgment, and had inquired 
whether the Board would be willing to execute an affidavit reflecting 
support of the position that the acquisition of assets of Public Bank 
by Bank of the Commonwealth not only did not eliminate competition but 
actually strengthened banking competition in the Detroit area. 
In a circulated memorandum dated February 21, 1967, the Legal 
Division noted that such an affidavit would be in conflict with the 
statement accompanying the Board's order. Attached to the memorandum 
was a draft of letter that would decline to execute the suggested 
affidavit. 

747 
2/28/67 
-10-
Following summary comments by Mr. O'Connell, unanimous approval 
was given to the letter, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 7. 
Messrs. O'Connell, Shay, and Egertson withdrew from the meet-
ing at this point. 
Proposed silver leg islation (Item No. 8). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 27, 1967, from the Legal Divi-
sion relating to a request from the Bureau of the Budget for the Board's 
views on a proposed bill prepared by the Treasury "To authorize adjust-
ments in the amount of outstanding silver certificates." The proposed 
leg 
islation would (1) allow the Secretary of the Treasury to write off 
such outstanding silver certificates as he determined had been lost, 
destroyed, or held in collections and would never be presented for 
Ademption; and (2) require that any exchange of silver certificates 
silver bullion be made within one year after enactment of the bill. 
The draft bill represented a further step in the direction of confining 
the role of silver in the U.S. monetary system to that of material for 
coinage. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed reply to the Bureau 
°f the Budget that would endorse the proposed legislation. 
Summary comments by Mr. Forrestal were followed by staff 
Responses to questions from members of the Board regarding certain fea-
tures of the proposed legislation. 
In response to a question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Forrestal 
said that at the end of the one-year period during which silver certif-
icates could be exchanged for silver bullion, the silver certificates 

748 
2/28/67 
-5-
that remained outstanding would not cease to be legal tender. In 
response to another question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Forrestal said 
the Treasury was taking the position that Federal Reserve notes would 
not have to be issued to replace the silver certificates that would be 
written off pursuant to the provisions of the bill, estimated at $100-
150 million, on the theory that replacements for the lost currency had 
already been effected. To the extent that silver certificates were 
turned in for silver bullion, those certificates presumably would have 
to be replaced by Federal Reserve notes. However, the Treasury esti-
mated that less than 30 per cent of the outstanding certificates (about 
$570 million at the end of 1966) would be turned in during the one-year 
period. If half of the certificates not written off by the Treasury 
were turned in and replacement was made by Federal Reserve notes, a 
gold reserve would be required in the amount of approximately $50 million. 
In reply to questions by Governors Shepardson and Maisel, Mr. 
Daniels said he understood that silver certificates reaching the Reserve 
Banks from circulation were not being sorted out and retired unless they 
were in unfit condition. Question was raised whether that should not 
be done in order to free the silver required as backing for the currency, 
and Mr. Daniels said the Treasury had thus far not requested the Reserve 
Banks to sort out fit silver certificates and retire them. Board mem-
bers suggested that the matter be discussed with the Treasury, and it 
Was understood that that would be done. 

749 
2/28/67 
-10-
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Bureau of 
the Budget in the form attached as Item No. 8. 
Secretary's Note: Mr. Daniels subsequently 
informed the Board by memorandum dated 
March 2, 1967, that all Reserve Banks were 
now following the practice of retiring and 
destroying silver certificates received in 
deposits, regardless of their fitness for 
further circulation. Few fit certificates 
reportedly were being received by the 
Reserve Banks. 
Membership on State Health Planning Council. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 27, 1967, from the Legal Divi-
sion relating to an inquiry from the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
a s to whether it would be appropriate for President Hickman to serve on 
the Ohio State Health Planning Council in view of the Board's 1915 reso-
lution against holding of political or public office by Reserve Bank 
directors or officers. 
It was understood that the Governor of the State of Ohio would 
appoint the members of the Council, which was in the process of being 
formed, for purposes of advising the State Health Department on activi-
ties to be undertaken pursuant to provisions of the recently-enacted 
Public Law 89-749 authorizing grants to States for comprehensive health 
Planning at the State level. No salary would be involved. 
The memorandum noted that there was no indication of the amount 
°f time the duties of membership would entailj that the Council was to 
represent largely "consumer interests"; and that the allocation of grants 

750 
2/28/67 
-10-
under the Federal law to welfare and health services might conceivably 
involve political considerations. However, it appeared that the ques-
tion was purely one of policy. 
After explanatory remarks by Mr. Robinson, Governor Brimmer 
expressed the view that no conflict of interest would be involved in 
President Hickman's membership on the State Health Planning Council. 
He noted that President Hickman was now a member of the Health Planning 
and Development Commission of Cleveland, which dealt with problems of 
recreation, health, and welfare in the area. The State Council would 
appear to be largely a counterpart, and he (Governor Brimmer) was grati-
fied that a Reserve Bank President should be held in such high regard 
as to be considered for appointment to a key group of that kind. 
Governor Shepardson noted the question that had been raised in 
the memorandum about the amount of time that might be required but 
indicated that he could see no other objection. Governor Maisel remarked 
that the President of a Federal Reserve Bank had responsibility for allo-
cating his time in such manner that he would be able to discharge the 
functions of his office satisfactorily; he felt that questions of allo-
cation of time should properly be left for decision by the individual 
President concerned. Governor Brimmer commented that he was rather 
Pleasantly surprised that a Reserve Bank President would have sufficient 
interest to take a post of the type in question. 
Chairman Martin asked Mr. Hackley whether there appeared to be 
any legal question involved, and the latter replied that the question 

751 
2/28/67 
-10-
was purely one of policy. The Legal Division's memorandum, he added, 
was not intended to make a recommendation but merely to point out some 
of the factors that the Board might want to have in mind in reaching a 
decision, particularly since there did not seem to have been previous 
cases of exactly the same character. 
After further discussion it was agreed unanimously that service 
by President Hickman on the State Health Planning Council would be 
appropriate, and it was understood that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland would be advised of the Board's view. 
Messrs. Hart, Forrestal, and Robinson then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Foreign travel. Pursuant to the recommendation contained in a 
memorandum dated February 27, 1967, from the Division of Research and 
Statistics, the Board authorized Normand Bernard, Economist in the 
Government Finance Section of that Division, to spend from one to two 
weeks in London, England, probably in early April, to participate in a 
study of the progress made by the British Government in automating its 
Government securities market, including the development of a book entry 
system. 
Annex building. Governor Shepardson recalled having reported 
Previously to the Board the interest of the Secretary of the Interior 
in working out some arrangement whereby that Department would be able 
to participate in the so-called underground north garage project that 

752 
2/28/67 
-10-
had been considered in connection with the construction of the Board's 
proposed annex building. Governor Shepardson had now received from the 
Secretary a copy of a letter written by the latter to the General Ser-
vices Administrator, which letter was worded in such a way that it 
seemed to contemplate a separate construction project by the Interior 
Department. It seemed to Governor Shepardson that it would be desirable, 
in acknowledging receipt of the copy of the letter, to point out that a 
single construction project would appear to be more efficient and eco-
nomical for both the Board and the Interior Department; in other words, 
that the Board would consider going ahead with the north garage as part 
of the annex building project if the Interior Department could work out 
some basis for a sharing of the cost. 
Governor Shepardson also mentioned that the Board's decision 
not to include a tennis court in the annex building meant that the 
Board would not need as much space in the north garage to obtain the 
total number of parking spaces originally contemplated. He proposed 
suggesting to the Secretary of the Interior that the Board would be 
able to allocate more parking space in the north garage to the use of 
the Interior Department than earlier envisaged. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he hoped the financing problem 
with which the Interior Department was confronted would not be compli-
cated by the offer of additional space in the north garage. Governor 
Shepardson replied that he did not have in mind pressing anything on 

753 
2/28/67 
-10-
the Interior Department. However, almost every agency would like to 
have additional parking facilities and the Secretary of the Interior 
might be glad to know that the Board would be willing to release more 
space in the north garage than originally stated, if that facility were 
constructed. 
After further discussion it was agreed that Governor Shepardson 
would advise the Secretary of the Interior along the lines he had 
suggested. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 2:15 p.m. in the 
Board Room with the following in attendance: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Fry, Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Reserve requirements (Items 9-10). Further consideration was 
given to the proposal that had been discussed yesterday for a reduction 

754 
2/28/67 
-10-
in member bank reserve requirements. As the proposal was now formulated, 
the requirement against savings deposits (and Christmas and vacation club 
accounts) and the first $5 million of time deposits at each member bank 
would be reduced from 4 per cent to 3-1/2 per cent effective March 2, 
1967, and then from 3-1/2 per cent to 3 per cent effective March 16, 
1967. 
Chairman Martin turned first to Governor Mitchell, who had not 
been present for the discussion by the Board yesterday. 
Governor Mitchell said he would have no quarrel with taking some 
such action. He had been assured by staff that the market situation had 
turned around and that the objective was simply to keep it in that pos-
ture. His earlier impression had been that the contemplated move might 
be something of an attempt to bring about a turning around of the market. 
However, since that had already occurred and the objective of an action 
by the Board would be to assure continuation, he would be in favor of 
such a move. 
His only other reservation, Governor Mitchell said, had had to 
do with the method of effecting a reduction of reserve requirements. 
The memorandum distributed to the Board on the subject contained a rather 
complicated and involved statistical analysis. He doubted whether some 
of the statements therein could properly be inferred from the available 
data. One could not be sure that the present environment was such as 
to enable predicting with confidence what banks of various size groups 

755 
2/28/67 
-10-
would do with available reserves, given today's opportunities, as 
against June 1965 and June 1966. It seemed questionable whether a 
sufficient basis existed for making a good judgment. 
Having said that, Governor Mitchell continued, if the rest of 
the members of the Board were satisfied with the appropriateness of the 
contemplated action, he would have no objection. 
The Chairman then turned to Governor Robertson, who commented 
that if the Board were simply to undo the actions taken last summer in 
respect to reserve requirements against time deposits, reserves would 
be released principally to the larger banks, and those banks might be 
inclined to use them to pay off borrowings from their foreign branches, 
with adverse effect on the U.S. balance of payments. 
Governor Mitchell replied that it must be borne in mind, of 
course, that the top 2 per cent of the member banks held the major part 
of those funds and there was no way of changing that situation. 
Governor Robertson noted that none of the formulas that might 
be considered were perfect and that the effort had been to pick out one 
that seemed to go as nearly in the right direction as possible. 
Governor Mitchell said his first reaction would have been to do 
something about reversing the actions taken last summer. However, he 
had not had a sufficient opportunity to consider all of the ramifica-
tions. His second impulse would have been to move in the direction of 
a graduated reserve requirement system. However, he gathered from the 

756 
2/28/67 
-13-
memorandum that such a move was not considered advisable at the moment 
because it would be better to give the Congress another opportunity to 
act on the graduated reserve requirement legislation currently being 
recommended by the Board. 
Governor Brimmer said he shared Governor Robertson's views from 
the standpoint of balance of payments considerations. Any substantial 
increment to the liquidity position of the large banks would enhance 
the likelihood of repayment by those banks of funds borrowed through 
their foreign branches. For that reason he would prefer not to retrace 
the steps taken by the Board last summer. 
Governor Maisel said originally he had felt, like Governor 
Mitchell, that the preferable course would be to move in the direction 
of graduated reserve requirements. Upon further reflection, however, 
he would favor proceeding in the manner now proposed. 
Governor Brimmer then referred to the revised draft of press 
release that had been distributed and noted that certain modifications 
had been made in line with suggestions he had offered concerning the 
previous draft. However, there was the question whether the Board 
wished to highlight the prospect of additional stimulus to the housing 
industry by concentrating the release of reserves in the smaller banks. 
He had assumed from the earlier discussion that the Board had such an 
objective in mind, but it was not reflected in the revised draft of 
press release. 

757 
2/28/67 
-10-
Governor Mitchell questioned whether the statement in the ear-
lier draft was borne out by the facts. Governor Robertson commented 
that if stimulation of the housing industry was set out as an objective, 
but if that objective was not accomplished, the Board's reasoning would 
be subject to question. Governor Brimmer said he was not advocating 
that the press release be so fashioned; he had simply noted the change 
from the first draft. 
At this point Governor Shepardson, who had expressed some reser-
vations yesterday regarding the proposed action on reserve requirements, 
said that all things considered he now felt that such action would be 
appropriate. As to the possibility of moving in the direction of 
graduated reserve requirements, there was the aspect that Governor 
Mitchell had mentioned in relation to the prospect of obtaining the 
legislation currently being recommended. Also, the Board's earlier 
discussions of methods of adjusting reserve requirements in a move to-
ward a graduated reserve requirement system had pointed up the difficulty 
involved in the application of various formulas to different classes of 
banks. A piecemeal approach to graduated reserves might simply compli-
cate the problem, particularly in terms of smaller banks. 
Governor Shepardson said he thought there was validity in a 
move at this time focused on savings accounts and the first $5 million 
of time deposits, as opposed to reversing the actions taken by the Board 
last summer, particularly from the standpoint of the balance of payments. 
Consequently, he would favor going ahead with the current proposal. 

758 
2/28/67 
-10-
Accordingly, unanimous approval 
was given to a reduction 
from 4 per cent to 3-1/2 per cent in the reserve requirement against 
savings deposits (and Christmas and vacation club accounts) and the 
first $5 million of time deposits at each member bank effective March 2, 
1967, and to a further reduction in the reserve requirement to 3 per 
cent effective March 16, 1967. Approval also was given to a press 
release in the form attached as Item No. 9 for issuance this afternoon 
at about 4:00 p.m. EST. Attached as Item No. 10 is a copy of the 
notice sent to the Federal Register. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Sherman then withdrew. 
Salaries at Chicago Reserve Bank (Item No. 11). Governor 
Mitchell referred to the request of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
for authorization to pay 158 employees salaries in excess of the present 
maximum rates approved in the structure for that Bank, pending comple-
tion of a survey which was expected to result in a new structure level. 
Governor Mitchell said that, as requested by the Board, he had talked 
with President Scanlon about the Chicago situation, stating reasons why 
the granting of blanket salary increases was ordinarily not desirable. 
Mr. Scanlon had informed him that the Chicago Bank found its ability to 
recruit employees in certain grades seriously impaired under its present 
salary structure, that a large number of part-time employees were being 
1 7 The views of Governor Daane, as reported by Governor Brimmer, are 
recorded in the minutes of the meeting of the Board on February 27, 1967. 

759 
2/28/67 
-10-
engaged to assist in certain operations, and that at present the Chicago 
labor market was one of the tightest in history. Mr. Scanlon felt that 
the Bank had slipped behind the market as a result of having endeavored 
to hold down salary costs during the past two years, and the Bank was 
convinced that an across-the-board adjustment at the present time was 
needed. This would involve bringing salaries for 158 employees to 
figures above the maximum levels of their positions and, while the Bank 
could make the general increase effective except for these 158 employees 
at or near the tops of their grades, the Bank felt that as a matter of 
equity and good personnel policy the general increase should be made to 
include that. 
Governor Mitchell reported that two of the directors of the Bank 
had made studies of the Reserve Bank's salary levels in relation to 
experience in their own organizations and that they felt strongly that 
the blanket increase presently proposed was necessary. Governor Mitchell 
added the comment that Mr. Scanlon might be willing to omit for the 
present adjustments for the 158 employees who would be brought to levels 
above maximum rates for their grades under the planned blanket adjust-
ment. He also stated that the Board's Personnel Division had obtained 
information regarding blanket increases that had been given by other 
Federal Reserve Banks and found that a number of adjustments of that 
type in the 3 or 4 per cent range had been made effective during the 
past few years. Governor Mitchell felt that further study of the matter 

18 
2/28/67 
-10-
should be made for the System as a whole, with a view to giving the 
Federal Reserve Banks some general guidance as to the Board's views on 
salary administration, including blanket increases, but in the meantime 
Mr. Scanlon felt that action at the Chicago Bank was necessary. 
Governor Maisel stated that if the Board was going to approve 
the Chicago Bank's giving of an across-the-board salary adjustment he 
did not feel that it would be appropriate to exclude the 158 employees 
now at or near the tops of their ranges. He noted that these were prob-
ably longer-service employees who had moved to the tops of their grades 
and, in his judgment, both in terms of equity and in terms of good 
personnel management it would be a mistake to exclude them from a general 
increase that would be given by the Bank. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that the Board should approve 
the Chicago Bank's request, including authorization to pay salaries above 
the maximum of the grade in those instances cited, and other members of 
the Board expressed similar views. Accordingly, it was understood that 
Governor Mitchell would advise President Scanlon, who was in the Board's 
building today, of this action and that the usual letter advice would 
be transmitted. It was also understood that the Board's Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans would pursue the study 
of blanket salary increases with a view to submitting a proposal for a 
Policy to apply generally throughout the Federal Reserve System. A 
copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago is 
attached as Item No. 11. 

761 
2/28/67 
- 1 8 -
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board a 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond (copy attached as Item No. 12) 
approving the appointment of K. Frederick 
Lanier, Jr., as assistan 
M a / ^ 

762 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
2/28/67 
« OFGOb^ 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Connecticut Bank 
and Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by The 
Connecticut Bank and trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, 
at the corner of Market and Water Streets, Norwich, 
Connecticut, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter, and further 
provided branch operations now conducted at 16 Shetucket 
Street, Norwich, are discontinued simultaneously with 
the opening of the new branch. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

21 
'•f^ALVtif: 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
2/28/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C • R R E S P O N O E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Connecticut Bank 
and Trust Company, 
Hartford, Connecticut. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment of a branch by The 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, 
at the corner of Main Street and Rose Alley, Norwich, 
Connecticut, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

Trust Company of Georgia, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an additional investment 
in bank premises of $450,000 by Trust Company of Georgia, 
Atlanta, Georgia, for the purchase of property on 
Courtland Street, between Houston Street and Auburn Avenue, 
in Atlanta. It is understood that upon acquisition of 
the Court land Street property it will be exchanged for 
property at the intersection of Auburn Avenue and Equitable 
Place to be used for future expansion purposes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

765 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
2/28/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Potomac Valley Bank, 
Petersburg, West Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises by Potomac Valley Bank, Petersburg, West Virginia, 
of $10,600 for the purchase of a piece of property 
adjoining the bank's main office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

766 
BDARD OF GDVERNDRB 
Item No. 5 
• F THE 
2/28/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Harold T. Patterson, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Patterson: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary to 
Mr. George H. Gaffney as an Assistant Cashier at the Jacksonville 
Branch at the rate of $12,000 per annum for the period February 15 
through December 31, 1967. This is the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of February 10. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

7G7 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 12 
2/28/67 
February 28, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL CFR) 
Clay - Kansas City 
Board will interpose no objection to your Bank's taking 
option on real estate adjoining Qonaha Branch building 
in accordance with proposal contained in your letter 
of February 10, 1967. 
(Signed) Sherman 
SHERMAN 

768 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 12 
2/28/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967 
William H. Merrill, Esq.1, 
Emery, Parsons, Bahr, Tennent & Hogan, 
770 South Adams Road, 
Birmingham, Michigan. 48011 
R e : Harry Granader v. Public Bank, et al.« 
U.S.D^C. E.D. Mich., Civil No. 29240 
Dear Mr. Merrill: 
Further reference is made to your letter of February 7, 
1967, earlier acknowledged by our letter of February 16, wherein in 
relation to motions to dismiss and for summary judgment which you 
contemplate filing in the above case you inquire as to the possibility 
of there being executed on behalf of the Board an affidavit that would 
reflect Board support for the position that the acquisition of assets 
and assumption of liabilities of Public Bank, Detroit, by Bank of the 
Commonwealth, Detroit, pursuant to Order of the Board dated 
September 23, 1966, involved no elimination of competition, and 
actually resulted in the strengthening of banking competition in 
the Detroit area. 
Upon consideration of your request, the Board has declined 
to execute the suggested affidavit. This decision is premised in 
part upon the Board*s conclusion that the issue to which such affi-
davit would be directed is susceptible of resolution by the court in-
dependent of any statement that the Board might make thereon. Further, 
it appears to the Board that a portion of its Statement of September 23, 
1966, issued in connection with its approval Order of the same date, 
would be in direct conflict with any statement that the Board might now 
make to the effect that the subject acquisition did not involve elimin-
ation of, and actually strengthened, competition. Your attention is 
directed to page 2 of the enclosed copy of the Board's Order and 
Statement of September 23, 1966, and to the statement that "The anti-
competitive effects attributable to effectuation of the transaction 

769 
William H. Merrill, Esq. 
-?.-
would be clearly outweighed in the public interest by the considerations 
supporting and requiring the aforementioned finding". Implicit in 
this statement, it would appear, is the conclusion that the transac-
tion in question did in fact involve "anticompetitive effects". Such 
conclusion is, of course, incompatible with the position urged by your 
request. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

770 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
Item No 
2/28/67 
A O O R C S S O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your Legislative Referral 
Memorandum of February 21, 1967, requesting the views of the 
Board with respect to a Treasury draft bill "To authorize 
adjustments in the amount of outstanding silver certificates, 
and for other purposes.k' 
The Board is in favor of the proposed legislation 
and recommends that it be submitted to the Congress for 
consideration. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 9 
2/28/67 
For immediate release. 
February 28, 1967. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a reduction in m e m b e r bank reserve requirements. 
The action is intended to assist in meeting developing credit 
needs throughout the country in a manner consistent with the Federal 
Reserved policy objectives of assuring that the availability of credit is 
adequate to provide for orderly economic growth. 
Reserve requirements are being reduced from 4 per cent to 
3 per cent against savings deposits, Christmas and vacation club 
accounts, and the first $5 million of other time deposits at each m e m b e r 
bank. The reduction will be m a d e in two equal steps: the first, from 
4 to 3-1/2 per cent, will become effective with the reserve computation 
period beginning March 2, 1967; and the second, from 3-1/2 to 3 per cent, 
will become effective with the reserve computation period beginning 
M a r c h 16, 1967.. 
It is estimated that the combined effect of these changes will be 
to reduce required reserves at m e m b e r banks by about $850 million--
approximately $500 million at country banks and $350 million at reserve 
city banks. 
Attached is the text of the revised Supplement to the Board's 
Regulation D, Reserves of M e m b e r Banks, which implements this action. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 10 
2/28/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204 - RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Reserve Percentages 
1. Section 204,5 (Supplement to Regulation D) is amended to 
read as follows: 
S 204.5 Supplement. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of section 19 
of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to paragraph (b) of 
this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System hereby 
prescribes the following reserve balances which each member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System is required to maintain on deposit with the Federal 
Reserve bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city--
(i) 4 per cent of the following deposits until the opening 
of business on March 2, 1967, 3-1/2 per cent of such deposits from March 2, 
1967, to March 15, 1967, inclusive, and 3 per cent of such deposits there-
after: (A) savings deposits and (B) time deposits, open account, that con-
stitute deposits of individuals, such as Christmas club accounts and vacation 
club accounts, that are made under written contracts providing that no with-
drawal shall be made until a certain number of periodic deposits have been 
made during a period of not less than 3 months; plus 
(ii) 4 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million 
until the opening of business on March 2, 1967, 3-1/2 per cent of such deposits 

•773 
-2-
from March 2, 1967, to March 15, 1967, inclusive, and 3 per cent of such 
deposits thereafter; plus 6 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million; 
plus 
(iii) 12 per cent of its net demand deposits. 
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in such 
a city which is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves specified in 
subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)--
(i) 4 per cent of the following deposits until the opening of 
business on March 2, 1967, 3-1/2 per cent of such deposits from March 2, 1967, 
to March 15, 1967, inclusive, and 3 per cent of such deposits thereafter! 
(A) savings deposits and (B) time deposits, open account, that constitute 
deposits of individuals, such as Christmas club accounts and vacation club 
accounts, that are made under written contracts providing that no withdrawal 
shall be made until a certain number of periodic deposits have been made 
during a period of not less than 3 months; plus 
(ii) 4 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 million 
until the opening of business on March 2, 1967, 3-1/2 per cent of such deposits 
from March 2, 1967, to March 15, 1967, inclusive, and 3 per cent of such 
deposits thereafter; plus 6 per cent of such deposits in excess of $5 million; 
plus 
(iii) 16-1/2 per cent of its net demand deposits. 
( b ) Currency and coin- The amount of a member bank's currency and 
coin shall be counted as reserves in determining compliance with the reserve 
requirements of paragraph (a) of this section. 

3-
774 
2a, This amendment is issued pursuant to the authority granted to 
the Board of Governors by section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to set reserve 
ratios (12 U.S.C. 462), 
The change is to reduce from 4 per cent to 3 
per cent, in two steps, the reserves that must be maintained by a member bank 
against its savings deposits, Christmas and vacation club accounts, and first 
$5 million of other time deposits. 
b. There was no notice and public participation with respect to 
this amendment as such procedure would result in delay that would be contrary 
to the public interest and serve no useful purpose. The effective dates were 
deferred for less than the 30-day period referred to in section 553(d) of 
title 5, United States Code, because the action falls within the exception 
thereto with respect to granting relief from a restriction and because the 
Board found that the general credit situation and the public interest compelled 
it to make the action effective no later than the dates adopted. . 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 28th day of February, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
(SEAL) 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
775 
Item No. 12 
2/28/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
March 1, 1967 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
As requested in your letter of February 9, 
1967, and because of circumstances reported therein, 
the Board of Governors approves, effective February 
20, the payment of salaries to the 158 employees con-
cerned at rates which are above the maximums of the 
grades in which their positions are classified. The 
Board also approves an increase in the minimum range 
of salary Grade 1 of the employees1 salary structure 
from $2,830 to $2,912, retroactive to February 1. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

776 
v 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20351 
Item No. 12 
2/28/67 
a o o r c i i arriciAL c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
TO TMK 
B O A R D 
February 28, 1967. 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia 23213. 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
/ 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of February 24, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of K. Frederick Lanier, Jr., as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
