MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 22, 1969 

Z33 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 22, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
ijt.Xi X. d 
' „ ; i I ' 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
• or o 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

1/22/69 
-2-
The following letters were approved unanimously after consider-
ation of background information that had been made available to the 
Board. Copies are attached under the item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, 
1 
Illinois, approving the establishment of a branch 
in London, England. 
Letter to the Center for Latin American Monetary 
2 
Studies, Mexico City, Mexico, nominating two candi-
dates to attend the 1969 course on Central Banking. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
3 
approving the payment of salaries to 98 employees 
at rates below grade minimums for a temporary 
period. 
Letter to Farmers and Merchants Bank of Long Beach, 
4 
Long Beach, California, approving the establishment 
of a limited-service branch near the intersection of 
Atlantic Avenue and San Antonio Drive. 
With respect to Item No. 4, it was observed that nine other 
applications for limited-service branches had been filed by Farmers 
and Merchants Bank of Long Beach and that the proposed locations were 
quite concentrated. After discussion, a suggestion was made that the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco be instructed to process, under 
delegated authority, such of the applications as might be approved by 
the State except that if with respect to any of them the Reserve Bank 
should feel that the applicant was blanketing a particular area to an 
undesirable extent, the application should be forwarded to the Board 
for consideration. There was agreement with this suggestion. Attached 

VJ35 
1/22/69 
-3-
as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of assets 
and assumption of liabilities of National City Bank in Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, by The Manufacturers National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. The conclusion read as follows: 
While the proposed transaction would be unfortunate in 
that it would eliminate one of the few banking offices 
located on the Near West Side of Chicago, acquisition of 
National City Bank in Chicago by The Manufacturers National 
Bank of Chicago would eliminate only a small amount of com-
petition. The overall competitive effect would be slightly 
adverse. 
Fidelity-American Bankshares. There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's action on 
v,. 
U - 
I 
o j A 
' '•• .J ..a , 
January 2, 1969, approving the application of Fidelity-American 
Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisistion of shares of The Fidelity National Bank, Lynch-
burg, Virginia, and American National Bank, Portsmouth, Virginia. A 
concurring statement by Governor Robertson also had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached 
under Item No. 6, along with a copy of Governor Robertson's concurring 
statement. 

1/22/69 
-4-
Tennessee Financial Corporation. There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's action on 
December 20, 1968, approving the application of Tennessee Financial 
Corporation, Kingsport, Tennessee, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Carter County Bank of Elizabethton, 
Elizabethton, Tennessee, in addition to those of First Peoples Bank, 
Johnson City, Tennessee, already owned. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with a 
change in the statement suggested by Governor Maisel, the issuance of 
the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the documents, in 
the form in which they were issued, are attached under Item No. 7. 
Oregon Bank. A memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated January 13, 1969, and other pertinent papers had 
been distributed in connection with an application by The Oregon Bank, 
Portland, Oregon, to merge Citizens Bank of Oregon, Lake Oswego, Oregon. 
The Division's recommendation was favorable. 
Following comments by Mr. Egertson, there was a discussion 
during which Governor Mitchell addressed questions to the staff on the 
competitive aspects and suggested points that he felt the staff should 
bear in mind in preparing a statement. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this decision would 
be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

237 
1/22/69 
-8-
Insurance of loans by holding company subsidiary. Citizens 
and Southern National Bank, Atlanta, Georgia, a registered bank holding 
company, had inquired whether its wholly-owned subsidiary, Citizens 
and Southern Credit Service Corporation, could engage in the insuring 
of loans made by banks that were not affiliated with the holding com-
pany system. A draft of reply had been distributed that would take 
\ 
the position that the function at present performed by the subsidiary— 
holding pooled loan loss reserves of the holding company and its 
subsidiary banks—came within the exemption in section 4(c)(1)(C) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act, but that this exemption would cease to 
be applicable if the subsidiary's activities were expanded to include 
insurance of loans made by banks other than those in the holding com-
pany system. The draft letter would further hold that it did not 
appear that any other exemption would be applicable with the possible 
exception of section 4(c)(8), under which a determination would be 
required based on the record of a hearing. 
Governor Maisel said that he would like to have arguments 
developed for and against the availability of the exemption in 
section 4(c)(5), and after discussion the staff was requested to pre-
pare additional information bearing upon that point. 
Several members of the staff who had been present withdrew at 
this point and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Swan, President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco 
Mr. Merritt, First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 

238 
1/22/69 
-8-
Unionization activities. In a letter of January 18, 1969, 
President Swan had described recent efforts of unions to organize 
groups of employees of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. The 
Reserve Bank had taken the position that the National Labor Management 
Relations Act of 1947 excludes "any Federal Reserve Bank" from the 
definition of the term "employer" and that employees of the Bank are 
not Federal employees within the purview of Executive Order 10988, 
which defines the scope of permissible union activities with respect 
to employees of the Federal Government. 
President Swan expressed in his letter the view that there were 
basically only two alternative positions to be considered. One was to 
niaintain the position that in the absence of applicability of the 
National Labor Management Relations Act and Executive Order 10988, 
there was no basis for holding an election among Federal Reserve Bank 
employees. The alternative was to be prepared to agree to elections 
circumscribed by guidelines that would clearly limit the areas subject 
to collective bargaining and reflect the essential and uninterruptible 
nature of Reserve Bank operations, as well as the supervisory responsi-
bilities of the Board of Governors under the Federal Reserve Act. 
The first position would be difficult to maintain, in President 
Swan's judgment, in view of the fact that a choice through union elec-
tion was now accorded to employees of the Federal Government and 
Increasingly to employees of other governmental units. It was recog-
nized that the alternative position would have implications for all of 

1/22/69 
-8-
the Reserve Banks, and that the development of appropriate guidelines 
would not be a simple task. Nevertheless, he and other officers of 
the Reserve Bank believed that the attempt should be made. The unions 
might not be willing to accept the limitations that were believed 
necessary, but even if that should be the case the Reserve Banks would 
be in a stronger position than at present. 
Regardless of what position was taken, the Reserve Bank felt 
that the situation called for the establishment of a uniform System 
Position. 
At today's meeting President Swan said he had requested that 
the question of a System policy with respect to unionization efforts 
be placed on the agenda for the meeting of the Conference of Presidents 
early in February. With respect to the present situation, there was a 
need to give the union representatives some indication, not of what 
the decision might be, but of how long it might take to arrive at a 
decision whether or not the Reserve Bank would consider the possibility 
°f an election on some basis. Because of the implications of the 
Question for all of the Reserve Banks, the San Francisco Bank did not 
Want to take a unilateral position. 
There ensued a discussion that included comments on the cover-
aSe of the National Labor Management Relations Act and the scope and 
intent of Executive Order 10988. Mr. Johnson expressed doubt that the 
Reserve Banks would be satisfied with any guidelines patterned strictly 
according to the terms of the Executive Order. It seemed to him 

240 
1/22/69 
-8-
that a more appropriate approach would be for the Conference of Presi-
dents to formulate a System policy, with the help of an oustanding 
labor consultant. 
In further discussion, President Swan pointed out that even if 
the Conference of Presidents formulated a policy, it apparently would 
' •' i v C 
still have to be approved by the Board because of the responsibilities 
of the Board under the law. 
Favorable comments then were made on the suggestion that a 
consultant be engaged, if possible even before the meeting of the 
Conference of Presidents. 
Discussion of the question what indication President Swan might 
give to the union representatives regarding the time needed to arrive 
at a decision whether or not the Reserve Bank would consent to an 
election on some basis resulted in a consensus that two months would be 
a n appropriate period of time to mention. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, Governor Sherrill was 
•ggquestpd to develop information on the qualifications and possible 
availability of various labor relations experts who might be considered 
f°r the consultant post. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
^ 
Secretary 

9 1 I 
A*-* A. 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
OF GOy*., 
r r n r D A i •crc:tro\/CR c v C T C : M 
1/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 22, 1969 
Harris Trust and Savings Bank, 
111 West Monroe Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and 
°f Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before February 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
tal, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for 
Purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will 
be placed on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, 
it is understood that any investment required will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now 
in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your bank, and that due consideration is being given to the 
Priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B•ARn OF GOVERNORS 
Or T he 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5Y5TEM 
WA^HlNr-TON, C. ?D55I 
Item No. 11 
1/22/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
January 29, 1969 
Mr. Fernando Rivera, 
Acting Director, 
Centro de Estudios Monetarios 
Latinoamericanos, 
Durango 54, 
Mexico 7, D. F. 
Dear Mr. Rivera: 
We are pleased to be able to nominate two candidates 
from the System to attend the CEMLA course on Central Banking 
this year. They are Mr. John E. Liemone, economist in the Re-
search Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, and 
Mr. John K. Thompson, economist in the Latin American Unit of 
the Foreign Research Division of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. 
The completed forms introducing Mr. Leimone and 
Mr. Thompson and giving their personal histories are enclosed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures. 

• • » • 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E S 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 22, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Peter Fousek, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Fousek: 
As requested in your letter of December 30, 1968, 
the Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries to 
'V 
• 
i 
• • 
i 
98 employees below their respective grade minima until 
April 10, 1969, six months from the effective date of the 
present nonofficial salary structure. 
<W. i: \'.' 
:« 
i<: e., D'-'cy-? 
ik-
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
1/22/69 
of r.ni. •. 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 22, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers and Merchants Bank of Long Beach, 
Long Beach, California. 90812 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors approves the establishment by 
Farmers and Merchants Bank of Long Beach, Long Beach, California, 
of a branch in the vicinity of the intersection of Atlanta Avenue 
and San Antonio Drive, Long Beach, California, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that the proposed branch will serve better the convenience of 
the community and that establishment of the branch will not tend 
to create an undesirable competitive situation. It is understood 
activities of the proposed branch are to be limited to the pro-
cessing of Master Charge loans, paying and cashing of checks, 
commercial and savings deposit transactions, and issuance of 
cashier's checks. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
1/ Should have read "Atlantic Avenue." 

14 
B O A R D D F 
G • V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
1/22/69 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 22, 1969 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Re: Farmers and Merchants Bank of Long Beach, 
Long Beach, California. Branch in the 
vicinity of the intersection of Atlanta 
Avenue and San Antonio Drive, Long Beach, 
California. 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
Enclosed is a letter addressed to the member bank indicated 
above with reference to action by the Board of Governors of the 
federal Reserve System, on the subject noted. Please deliver the 
original to the member bank. 
The Board understands subject has filed with the State 
Banking Department and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
n i n e other similar branch applications. It is suggested that when, 
if, any of the other nine applications are approved by the 
otate Banking Department, the Reserve Bank process such applications 
uncier delegated authority, giving consideration to the merits of 
each individual case. If the Reserve Bank should feel that applicant 
as blanketing" a particular area to an undesirable extent, it is 
len suggested that the application be forwarded to the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Roberu P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^closure. 

246 
Item No. 7 
1/22/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIDELITY-AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC., 
Lynchburg, Virginia, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
folding company through the acquisition 
of more than 66-2/3 per cent of the 
voting shares of The Fidelity National 
Sank, Lynchburg, Virginia, and American 
National Bank, Portsmouth, Virginia. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Fidelity-American Bankshares, 
Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of more than 
/ 
66-2/3 per cent of the voting shares of The Fidelity National Bank, 
Lynchburg, Virginia, and American National Bank, Portsmouth, Virginia. 

217 
-7-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 19, 1968 (33 Federal Register 17156), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
ky the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority, 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 22nd day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

248 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIDELITY-AMERICAN EANKSHARES, INC., LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Fidelity-American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia 
("Applicant")has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
o f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
°f action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
m o r e than 66-2/3 per cent of the voting shares of The Fidelity National 
Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia ("Fidelity National"), and of American 
National Bank, Portsmouth Virginia ("American National"). Fidelity 
National, with 24 offices and total deposits of $162 million," is 
seventh largest bank and the ninth largest banking organization 
Virginia in terms of total deposits. American National, with nine 
offices, has $53 million in deposits. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
rGquired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 29, 1968. 

249 
-7-
was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
the Currency. The Comptroller recommended approval of the appli-
cation. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisi-
tion, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
B°ard finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
o f the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the com-
munity to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future pros-
Pects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
c°nvenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Assuming 
c°nsumniation of the subject proposal, Applicant \vould be the smallest 
o f six bank holding companies operating in Virginia. Its control of 
^15 million of deposits would rank it eighth in size with respect 
t o a U banking organizations in the State. Fidelity National presently 
8 ninth among the nine largest banking organizations, which, in 

250 
-7-
the aggregate, control 64,3 per cent of total deposits in Virginia. 
Fidelity National presently controls 2.6 per cent of total State 
deposits, and, if the proposed transaction is consummated, Applicant 
would control 3.4 per cent of such deposits. 
Fidelity National operates eight offices in the City of 
Lynchburg and 16 offices in 10 adjacent counties in central and 
south-central Virginia. Its service area encompasses the City of 
Lynchburg, the 10 counties in which it has offices, parts of five 
counties contiguous thereto, and the independent City of South Boston. 
With the exception of Lynchburg, this area is primarily agricultural 
in nature. Although Fidelity National is the dominant bank in five 
°f the 10 counties in which it has offices, it competes in various 
locations with the four largest banking organizations in Virginia, 
a s well as with a number of smaller banks. Much of its service area 
sparsely settled and produces a small dollar volume of deposits. 
American National's service area includes the Cities of 
Portsmouth, Chesapeake and Suffolk, and Nansemond County. While 
American National is the largest bank headquartered in this area, 
t*le four largest banking organizations in the State (which control, 
the aggregate, more than 40 per cent of the area's deposits) have 
°ffices in the area. The area, predominantly of a commercial and 
Industrial nature, is also served by several smaller banks. 
Consummation of this proposal will not, in the Board's 
•Jud8ment, have any significant competitive consequences in the service 
a r e a °f either of Applicant's proposed subsidiaries. 

251 
-7-
Neither of the proposed subsidiary banks derives a significant 
Portion of its loans or deposits from the service area of the other bank. 
As noted, the banks' service areas differ markedly in character. While 
there is little significant variation between the deposit structures 
°f the two banks, there is a wide difference in the emphasis given to 
types of loans made by each. Commercial and industrial loans are twice 
as large a percentage of American National's total loan portfolio as 
they are in the case of Fidelity National. On the other hand, loans 
to farmers constitute a significantly larger portion of Fidelity 
National's total loans than is the case at American National. The 
nearest offices of the two banks are located more than 100 miles apart, 
and numerous banks, including affiliates of some of the State's 
*argest banking organizations, have offices in the intervening terri-
tory. Although each of the banks conducts correspondent bank business, 
neither has a substantial volume of such accounts and the two banks 
<1° not carry balances with each other, nor do banks located in the 
service area of one have balances with the other institution. The 
distinctions in the emphasis that each bank gives to certain types 
business, the fundamental difference in the areas served by each, 
distance separating the two institutions, the presence of numerous 
intervening banks, and the circumstance that State law prohibits both 

| 252 
-5-
banks from branching de novo into the area served by the other, explain 
the negligible present competition between the two banks and, in the 
Board's judgment, make it unlikely that significant competition would 
develop between them in the foreseeable future. 
Consummation of the proposal would not significantly increase 
the present degree of State-wide concentration and would not increase 
present degree of concentration in the areas which the banks serve. 
The Board concludes, on the basis of the record before it, 
that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, 
0 r further any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area of the State, 
n°r would such consummation substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, or operate in restraint of trade in any relevant 
area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant has no financial or operating history. However, its pro forma 
f i ancial condition and its prospects are considered satisfactory in 
' e light of the satisfactory financial condition and prospects of 
pi , 
elity National and American National. 
Applicant's management will be composed of directors and 
°fficers of the two proposed subsidiary banks. The qualifications and 
e*Perience of the banks' managements offer reasonable assurance that 
applicant's management will be satisfactory and that the banks, under 
Applicant's control, will continue their records of sound operations. 

2 5 3 
-6-
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
considerations related to the banking factors are consistent with 
approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities Involved. - The 
record in this matter supports the conclusion that the major banking 
needs of the Lynchburg and Portsmouth areas are now being adequately 
served. Applicant proposes to expand certain of the services now 
offered by American National and Fidelity National. The resulting 
benefit to the public through increased competition to the large 
banking organizations which consummation of this proposal will likely 
Promote, is a result lending some weight toward approval of the 
aPPlication. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and In the light of the factors set 
f0rth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
fche a p p H c a t i o n should be approved. 
January 22, 1969. 

254 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I have concurred in the Board's approval of 
Fidelity-American Bankshares' formation for the sole reason that 
its entry into the Lynchburg-Portsmouth areas offers a potential 
for increased competition for the four much larger banking organ-
izations operating in these areas. In my judgment, the Board's 
action is warranted only in the light of the fact that the proposal 
approved involves the formation of a new holding company whose size, 
relative to existing bank holding companies in the State, is 
relatively small. 
Lest my action here be construed as a withdrawal from my 
Previously-published concern over further increase in the already 
high level of concentration of banking resources in the State of 
Virginia and my belief that realistic alternative courses for de-
concentration must be preserved, I repeat a fact that I recently 
noted in a statement of dissent from a Board approval of an addi-
tional bank acquisition by an existing bank holding company in 
Virginia - that from 1966 to 1968 the percentage of deposits in 
Virginia controlled by bank holding companies had increased from 
27 per cent to 37 per cent. The Fidelity-American Bankshares1 
formation will increase this concentration to nearly 42 per cent. 
Given the acute level of concentration of banking resources in 
Virginia, approval of further bank acquisitions should be 

255 
-
7
-
preraised in every case upon a clear showing of significant benefit 
to the communities involved - a showing not made in this case. 
Had this application involved either an existing bank holding com-
pany or the formation of a significantly more sizable organization 
than Applicant, a far greater showing of overweighing benefit 
would have been required to secure my approval. 
January 22, 1969. 

256 
Item No. 7 
1/22/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
TENNESSEE FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
Kingsport, Tennessee, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
o f 50.1 per cant or more of the voting 
shares of Carter County Bank of 
Elizabethton, Elizabethton, Tennessee. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Tennessee 
Financial Corporation, Kingsport, Tennessee, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
c°®pany through the acquisition of 50.1 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of Carter County Bank of Elizabethton, Elizabethton, 
Tennessee, Applicant presently owns 31.98 per cent of the voting 
shares of First Peoples Bank, Johnson City, Tennessee, 

257 
-7-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 18, 1968 (33 Federal Register 10294), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
its consideration. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Tennessee Super-
intendent of Banks and requested his views and recommendation thereon, 
In his reply, which was delayed due to illness, the Superintendent 
recommended that the application not be approved. Although such rec-
ommendation was received after the 30-day period provided by section 
making unnecessary the conduct of a public hearing on the appli-
cation, the Board, acting in its discretion, ordered that an oral 
Presentation of views be conducted before the Board, in order that all 
interested parties would have an opportunity to fully state and support 
their views. Notice of the oral presentation was published in the 
Federal Register (33 Federal Register 14091), and, in accordance there-
w*-th, an oral presentation was held at the Boardfs offices on October 9, 
1968, A n participants were afforded full opportunity to support their 
P°sitions by oral statement and documentary evidence, and were permit-
t e d an opportunity, following the oral presentation, for the filing of 
briefs. 

258 
-7-
Havlng considered all matters properly before the Board in 
this proceeding, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 22nd day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
• 4; 
• -
(Signed) Robert P. Forrcstal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

259 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
TENNESSEE FINANCIAL CORPORATION, KINGSPORT, TENNESSEE, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Tennessee Financial Corporation, Kingsport, Tennessee 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
50.1 per cent or more of the voting shares of Carter County Bank 
o f Elizabethton, Elizabethton, Tennessee ("Carter County Bank"). 
APPlicant now owns 31.98 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
o f First Peoples Bank, Johnson City, Tennessee ("First Peoples Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
aPPlication was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
Tennessee Superintendent of Banks. The Superintendent, due to 
illness, was unable to reply to the Board's notice within the 30-day 
Period provided for such reply by section 3(b) but later recommended 
the application not be approved. 

2G0 
-7-
Oral presentation. - Section 3(b) of the Act provides that, 
if the supervisor of a bank that is the subject of an application 
submits a written recommendation of disapproval within 30 days of 
receipt of notice of the application, the Board shall order a hear-
ing to be held. Since the recommendation of the Tennessee Superin-
tendent of Banks was made more than 30 days after his receipt of 
notice of the application, section 3(b) did not necessitate the 
conduct of a hearing. 
The Board nevertheless, acting in its discretion, ordered 
that an oral presentation of views be conducted before the Board, in 
°rder that all interested parties would have an opportunity to fully 
state and support their views. Notice of the oral presentation was 
Published in the Federal Register (33 Federal Register 14091), and, 
ifl accordance therewith, an oral presentation was held at the Board's 
°ffices on October 9, 1968. Representatives of the Tennessee Bankers 
Association and six banks, all located in the State of Tennessee, 
aPPeared at the presentation in opposition to the application. All 
ParticiPants were afforded full opportunity to support their positions 
b y °ral statement and documentary evidence, and were permitted an 
°Pportunity, following the oral presentation, for the filing of briefs. 
Objections of the State supervisory authority. - The 
Tennessee Superintendent of Banks, in his recommendation, indicated 
^at he opposed approval of the application for the reasons that the 

261 
-7-
proposal contravenes the intent of the State branch banking laws; that 
the proposed holding company could, subsequent to its formation, ac-
quire stock in other banks, thereby monopolizing the business of bank-
ing in Tennessee; and that approval of the present application could 
Impel numerous like applications in the future. 
The Board has considered these views, and finds that none of 
the reasons advanced in support of the Superintendent's recommendation 
°f disapproval of the application constitutes a bar to its approval, 
As the Board has held on several occasions, the restrictive provisions 
a Statefs branch banking laws do not, in light of the legislative 
history of the Act, provide guidance with respect to the Board's re-
3Ponsibilities in considering an application to form or expand a bank 
holding company in the State. In the Matter of the Application of 
Maimers anH M^h^nics Trust Company, Childress, Texas, 1960 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 14, 16; In the Matter of the Application of Denver 
^la_J*ancorporatlon, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 1963 Federal Reserve 
B u U e t i n 1518, 1527; In the Matter of the Application of First Colorado 
^fehares T Tnc-t EnRlewood, Colorado, 1963 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
1651. The assertions that Applicant could eventually monopolize 
inking in Tennessee and that approval of the present application 
c°uld encourage numerous other applications for holding company forma-
tions fail to take into consideration the fact that each proposal to 
e*Pand Applicant through acquisitions of additional banks, and each 
Proposal to form an additional holding company, must receive prior 

o r o 
-7-
Board approval and must meet statutory standards that are adequate not 
only to prevent monopolization of the State's banking resources by that 
means, but also to prevent any significant tendency toward such a 
monopolization. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
ac<luisitlon the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
8ubstantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
° r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a r e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
t h e transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
e served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the 
e financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of t-h 
tne community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - First Peoples 
Bank 
oo 
» Ji.98 p e r cent of whose stock is now owned by Applicant, operates 
t s main office and two branches in Johnson City (population about 
and one branch in Jonesboro, about eight miles southwest of 
Johnson City. First Peoples Bank has total deposits of $32.3 million.-^ 
y 
A n banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 

-5-
Carter County Bank has total deposits of $13.3 million. The 
bank operates its main office and one branch in Elizabethton (popu-
lation 
about 13,000) and one branch in Roan Mountain, which is about 
19 miles southeast of Elizabethton. 
Elizabethton, in Carter County, is located eight miles east 
Johnson City, in Washington County, both towns being in a mountainous 
area of Tennessee, Johnson City is the wholesale and retail trading 
center for a sizable surrounding area, including Elizabethton, 
Both First Peoples Bank and Carter County Bank were organized 
by the same individuals, a husband and wife, who retained working con-
trol of both banks throughout the years. In a series of transactions 
beginning 
in 1964, the controlling stock interest in Carter County Bank 
W as purchased by the Greene Investment Company, a company controlled by 
the Greene family. At or about the same time, the Greene family, along 
w*-th certain other individuals, formed Applicant, which purchased the 
controlling stock interest in First Peoples Bank. Thus, the two pro-
Posed subsidiary banks of Applicant have been affiliated since their 
formation, and the record indicates that such affiliation will likely 
c°ntinue regardless of the Board's action on the present application. 
The evidence of record indicates, and the banks opposing 
aPproval of the application at the oral presentation conducted by the 
Board recognized, that First Peoples Bank and Carter County Bank do 
n°t compete effectively with each other. Each bank originates only nominal 
amounts of deposits or loans from the county in which the other bank 

_ 
2 6 
"Is* 
operates, and their long-standing affiliation appears to have prevented 
the banks from becoming effective competitors, even for such limited 
amounts of business. In the light of all of the evidence, comments by 
representatives of Applicant indicating that the banks do compete are 
understood by the Board to refer to the intraorganizational rivalry 
that frequently occurs in large and diverse organizations, and not to 
denote that the subject banks are presently meaningful alternative 
sources of banking services. 
For the same reaons that have in the past prevented First 
Peoples Bank and Carter County Bank from becoming effective competitors, 
and for the further reason that neither bank can, under State law, 
establish branches in the county in which the other bank is located, the 
Possibility that the banks would become effective competitors in the 
future is remote. 
Concentration of commercial banking resources in the State of 
Tennessee would not be increased to any significant extent by consum-
®ation of the proposed acquisition. Applicant's two subsidiary banks 
would hold only .8 per cent of the State's total deposits held by 
commercial banks. At present, there is one registered bank holding 
company headquartered in Tennessee, whose subsidiary banks hold about 
two per cent of total deposits in the State. 
Approval of the application would have its most immediate 
effect on the concentration of banking resources in Washington and 
barter Counties. Six banks, the largest of which is a subsidiary of 

2 6 5 
-7-
the only registered bank holding company in the State, operate offices 
in that two-county area. First Peoples Bank ranks second in size in 
the area, and Carter County Bank ranks fourth; Applicant would be the 
largest of the area's banking organizations in terms of local deposits. 
Viewed in the light of the long-standing affiliation of the two banks, 
however, the banking structure of the two-county area would not be 
meaningfully affected by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or 
he in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopo-
lize the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the 
aPplication and consummation of the proposal would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in 
ax[y section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant is in sound financial condition, and its managerial resources 
n ^ 
j 
Prospects are satisfactory. The financial condition, managerial 
resources, and prospects of both First Peoples Bank and Carter County 
®ank are generally satisfactory. Considerations relating to the bank-
^actors are therefore consistent with approval of the application, 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, - The 
Propo3eci holding company formation would have little effect on the 
c°nvenience and needs of the two-county area. There is no evidence of 
a n y deficiency in the banking services already being provided in the 
area, -jhe principal benefits that Applicant alleges would result from 

| : 
2 6 6 
-8-
the proposal - more efficient use of personnel, provision of auditing 
and computer services to the banks and their customers, and provision 
°f trust services to customers of Carter County Bank through the 
facilities of First Peoples Bank - are of only indirect or relatively 
minor benefit to the community, and could be, and, in the case of 
trust services, are, made available through the existing affiliation, 
although perhaps with somewhat less facility and efficiency than would 
be the case if Applicant's proposal were consummated, 
• 
Although considerations under this factor add no significant 
weight toward approval of the application, they are consistent therewith. 
Summary and conclusion, - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 22, 1969. 
U >" 
, . 
' . 
