•t 
I ; 
\ 
m
: 
• # 
' 
• v 
• 
Minutes for 
July 31, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Cha i rma n 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Martin 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 31, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Noble of the Legal Division 
Mr. Lougee of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Burton and Goodfellow of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Bank credit card study (Items 1 and 2). Consideration was 
given to a revised draft of press release, proposed for issuance today, 
delating to the Federal Reserve study of bank credit card and check 

ZQ3S 
7/31/68 
-2-
credit plans. There had also been distributed a draft of letter that 
might be sent to the Chairmen of the Banking and Currency Committees. 
Governor Brimmer reviewed the principal points covered in the 
proposed press release and letter, noting that the recommendations 
being made were generally consistent with testimony that he had given 
before the House Banking and Currency Committee toward the end of last 
year. In response to questions, he explained why certain points had 
been dealt with in the press release in the manner that they had. 
With respect to changes in bank regulatory practices referred 
to in the press -release and the letter, there was general agreement 
with Governor Brimmer that the Federal Reserve should speak only for 
itself, since commitments to follow similar practices had not been 
received from the other bank supervisory agencies. However, it was 
understood that copies of the task force report and the press state-
ment would be sent to the other agencies. There was also agreement 
with Governor Brimmer's position that statements made in the press 
release and in the letter should not go beyond those that could be 
supported by the analysis contained in the underlying study. 
As a result of the discussion, several minor changes in the 
. 
draft documents were agreed upon, and unanimous approval then was given 
to the issuance of a press release in the form attached as Item No. 1, 
along with a letter to the Chairman of the House Banking and Currency 
v>' jt -X * t''\l „ 
Committee in the form attached as Item No. 2, it being understood 

289? 
7/31/68 
-3-
that a similar letter would be sent to the Chairman of the Senate 
Banking and Currency Committee. 
The Board also approved a recommendation by Governor Brimmer 
* 
that copies of the report on bank credit cards and check credit plans 
be ordered from an outside printer, at an approximate cost of $12,000, 
in order that a sufficient quantity might be available soon to meet 
anticipated demands. This action constituted approval of the resul-
tant overexpenditure in the pertinent account of the Board's budget. 
It was agreed that the importance of having copies of the report avail-
able promptly for interested parties justified the overexpenditure in 
this instance, and that some part of the expense would be recouped 
through sales of the report. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
wUiiv. \ 
Letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Willemstad, Curacao. 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank International Cor-
poration, New York, New York, granting consent 
t o the acquisition of shares of China Develop-
ment Corporation, Taipei, Taiwan, Republic of 
Ch ina. 
Item No, 

S o 
y j ^ 
7/31/68 
-4-
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
5 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting con-
sent to the acquisition of additional shares of 
Peruinvest-Compania de Fomento e Inversiones S.A., 
Lima, Peru. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, 
6 
New York, extending the time within which to 
acquire shares of First National City Bank 
(Maghreb), Casablanca, Morocco. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
7 
Banks advising of an amendment to the Board's 
Delegation of Certain Functions of a Nonstatu-
tory and Nonregulation Nature so as to autho-
rize the Reserve Banks to extend the time within 
which a member bank may consummate a purchase of 
stock in a foreign bank. 
Application of Valley Bancorporation. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
July 24, 1968, and other pertinent papers regarding the application of 
Valley Bancorporation, Appleton, Wisconsin, to acquire 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of Seymour State Bank, Seymour, Wisconsin. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial, 
while the recommendations of the Banking Markets Section and the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Chicago were favorable. The Commissioner of Banks 
the State of Wisconsin had indicated informally that he had no 
objection to the proposal. 
The Banking Markets Section recommended approval on the grounds 
that the proposal would have only slightly adverse effects on competi-
t l on, that there would be some improvement in the ability of the bank 

7/31/68 
-5-
to meet the convenience and needs of the community, particularly 
through increased lending services, and that the development of a 
regional bank organization might lead to increased competition in the 
future for the large Milwaukee-based holding companies. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago recommended approval on 
the basis that the transaction would have a favorable effect on com-
petition and on banking services in the Seymour trade area, and that 
the strengthening of competition and improvement of service in that 
area probably would more than offset any potential adverse competitive 
effects in the larger area of Outagamie County. 
In commenting on the proposal Mr. Lyon stated that the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation considered the case a close one. How-
ever, it concluded that the adverse competitive effects it perceived 
were not outweighed by positive findings with respect to other factors. 
There would be an increase in an already high level of concentration 
banking resources in rural Outagamie County. While at present very 
kittle competition existed between Bank of Black Creek, applicant's 
closest subsidiary to Seymour State Bank, the acquisition would effec-
tively foreclose the possibility that the two banks would compete 
a8gressively in the future under alternative new ownership of the 
Seymour Bank, which, because of the advanced age of the present manage-
ment, would appear likely if the application was denied. There appeared 
to be few banking needs in the community that were not presently met by 

7/31/68 
-6-
the local banks and by the larger institutions in Green Bay, which 
offered reasonably convenient alternatives. However, the proposed 
acquisition should strengthen Seymour Bank's competitive thrust against 
its larger local competitor, and the added convenience stemming from 
expansion of the bank's services would lend some weight toward approval. 
Mr. Lyon also pointed out that recent examination reports 
showed asset and/or capital deficiencies in four of Valley Bancorpora-
tion's six subsidiaries, and in at least two subsidiaries there had 
been an increase in the volume of criticized assets in the period since 
the banks came under the holding company's control. In addition, Valley 
Bancorporation had not yet retired $200,000 of the $300,000 debt incurred 
last year in connection with the acquisition of American State Bank, 
Grand Chute Township, Wisconsin. The applicant had proposed to acquire 
American State Bank through the sale of a new issue of common stock. 
Apparently, however, it felt that the market was not right for sale of 
the stock at that time and the debt route of financing was used. 
In response to a question, Mr. Lyon defined the relevant mar-
ket area as including Seymour and surrounding small towns. Mr. Shull 
agreed with this definition but added that he would not ignore the 
banks in Green Bay, which offered reasonably convenient alternatives 
to the residents of Seymour. He could see no economic justification 
choosing a wider area such as the county as the relevant market. 
On the capital position of Valley Bancorporation, Mr. Solomon 
observed that the present proposal would not result in a further 

O 
* 
7/31/68 
-7-
weakening since acquisition would be accomplished by means of an 
exchange of stock and no additional borrowing would be involved. 
Board members then stated their views, beginning with Governor 
Mitchell, who indicated that he would approve the application. It 
seemed to him that the effect of the acquisition would be pro-competi-
tive. The increased ability of Seymour State Bank to compete in its 
primary service area, and on the fringe of the Green Bay service area, 
would more than offset any disadvantages of increased concentration in 
the larger area of Outagamie County. In addition the entry of the 
smaller holding company into the Seymour area would be preferable to 
acquisition of the bank by one of the larger holding companies. The 
management problem could probably be resolved satisfactorily in other 
ways, but on grounds of competition alone he would favor approval. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would deny the application. It 
seemed to him that acquisition of the bank would clearly foreclose 
more possibilities for competition than it would open up. If the hold-
ing company was to expand, the more logical move would be into Green 
Bay, or into any area other than Seymour, where the bank proposed to 
be acquired was an actual and potential competitor with existing sub-
sidiary banks of the holding company, particularly the bank in Black 
Creek. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would approve the applica-
tion. The arguments advanced by the Banking Markets Section that the 

O r v ^ O 
/C. . ! ^ 
7/31/68 
-8-
effect on competition would be slightly adverse were in his opinion 
valid. Although banking alternatives would be available in Green Bay, 
that was not sufficient to consider the proposal pro-competitive. The 
prospect was that expanded and more aggressive services would improve 
the banking situation in the Seymour area somewhat, and Seymour State 
Bank apparently needed help in securing new management. However, he 
was disturbed by the holding company's capital position. Although there 
apparently would not be a further deterioration through the proposed 
exchange of stock, Valley Bancorporation had not conformed to the pre-
vious understanding relating to the acquisition of American State Bank, 
and he would make his favorable view on the present application con-
tingent upon improvement in the holding company's financial position. 
Governor Sherrill expressed agreement with the view that the 
case was a close one, but said he came out on balance in favor of 
approval. It seemed to him that the significant factor related to con-
venience and needs, for the proposed arrangement would add more life to 
the banking services offered the Seymour community. However, the fact 
that Valley Bancorporation had not met its previous commitments was 
almost an offsetting circumstance and he would condition his approval, 
if possible, on the fulfillment of those commitments. 
Governor Robertson stated that the competitive factors seemed 
to him almost neutral, but that he would oppose the application on the 
grounds that no holding company should be permitted to expand whose 

o o n 'i 
a a . : j t; k j 
7/31/68 
-9-
performance was not good. Valley Bancorporation had not fulfilled its 
commitment in connection with its previous acquisition. 
In addition 
its banks were not in good shape; in fact, several were not in as good 
shape as when they were acquired. In short, this particular holding 
company was not in position to expand at this time. 
Chairman Martin remarked that after debating the question back 
and forth he had finally come out on the side of approval on the basis 
that the overall banking situation would be somewhat improved. 
There followed a discussion of means by which the Board's con-
cern as to the Applicant's financial condition could be brought into 
focus, and there was agreement with a suggestion that the holding com-
pany be asked to supply a letter of intent with respect to its present 
Plans and progress towards retirement of its outstanding debt. 
The application of Valley Bancorporation to acquire 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Seymour State Bank was then approved, 
Governors Robertson and Maisel dissenting, subject to the receipt of a 
satisfactory expression of intent on the part of the applicant with 
respect to its financial position. It was understood that in the mean-
time an order and statement would be drafted to be available for the 
Board's consideration. 
Request for exemption from Regulation G (Items 8 and 9). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated July 30, 1968, from the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation relating to a request from the 

7/31/68 
-10-
National Association of Small Business Investment Companies for exemp-
tion of such companies from the registration and other requirements of 
Regula tion G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers 
for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities. 
Also before the Board was a similar request made by a small business 
investment company on its own behalf. 
The memorandum referred to conferences with staff of the Small 
Business Administration and summarized reasons why the Administration 
had determined not to request formally an exemption of small business 
investment companies from registration under Regulation G. The memo-
randum also brought out that although experience to date did not indi-
cate that the effectiveness of Regulation G would be diminished if 
small business investment companies were exempted, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation had concluded that it would not be advisable 
to make such an exemption, at least at this time, principally because 
consideration would then logically have to be given to exemptions for 
a number of other groups similarly situated. 
Following summary remarks by Miss Hart, comments by several 
members of the Board reflected general agreement with the staff conclu-
sion. However, Governor Mitchell expressed some reservations about 
denying the request. He doubted that the small amount of benefit that 
would be derived was worth the irritation that would be engendered. 
He would prefer to deal with any requests from other groups according 

7/31/68 
-11-
to the merits of their case. If the issue was thought to be important 
on grounds of general strategy, he would yield to the majority view, 
but only reluctantly. 
Governor Mitchell's reservations having been noted, a letter 
to the National Association of Small Business Investment Companies 
(copy attached as Item No. 8) was approved, along with a letter to the 
small business investment company that had petitioned (copy attached 
as Item No. 9). 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Transfer 
Janet E. Kazokas, from the position of Stenographer in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in 
the Division of International Finance, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $5,161, effective August 11, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Lindy Kay Sprague, Clerk-Typist, Division of Data Processing, 
effective the close of business July 30, 1968. 
On July 30 and 31, 1968, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as reflected in 
the following letters, copies of which 
are attached as indicated: 

230(3 
7/31/68 
-12-
On July 30, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
approving the appointment of Allan Y. Neale 
and Jesse L. Harris as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agents. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Central Trust Company, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Montgomery. 
Letter to The Toledo Trust Company, Toledo, 
Ohio, approving the establishment of an in-
town branch. 
On July 31, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letters to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding the applications of 
(1) Farmers State Bank of Yorkville, York-
ville, Illinois, (2) The Citizens State 
Bank, Hartford City, Indiana, and (3) Union 
Bank and Trust Company of Greensburg, Greens-
burg, Indiana, for continuation of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
By the Fpdpral Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to The Twin City Bank, North Little 
Rock, Arkansas, waiving the requirement of 
six months' notice of withdrawal from mem-
bership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Item No, 
10 
11 
12 
13-15 
16 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No. 3 3 G 7 
7/31/68 
For release in morning papers of 
Friday, August 2, 1968. 
july 31, 1 9 6 8 i 
A special staff study by a Federal Reserve System Task Group con-
cludes that credit-card and check-credit plans are natural extensions of the 
traditional credit-granting functions of commercial banks and require no new 
Federal supervisory legislation at this time. 
The report, entitled "Bank Credit-Cards and Check-Credit Plans: A 
Federal Reserve System Report," was made public today by the System's Board of 
Governors. 
The product of an intensive research project, launched by the Board 
in March 1967 as. one phase of its continuing interest in credit developments 
in all fields, the 211-page report presents: 
- A comprehensive assembly of information on the nature of the 
various credit-card and check-credit plans currently in use 
by banks. 
- An assessment of the implications of bank activities in this 
area for bank competition, bank supervision, and the banking 
structure. 
- A compilation of data on the amount of this type of credit in 
relation to the total volume of consumer credit. 
- An evaluation of the impact that further expansion of bank-
credit cards is likely to have on the financing of consumer 
expenditures by various grantors of consumer credit. 
The System Task Group that prepared the report was comprised of 15 
4 
t 
members of the staffs of the Board of Governors and the Federal Reserve Banks 
o f Cleveland, New York, San Francisco, Boston, Atlanta, and Chicago, under the 
chairmanship of J. Howard Craven. Throughout the period of the study, the Task 
Group worked closely with Governor Andrew F. Brimmer, who served as the Board's 
iiaison with the Group. Copies of the report will be furnished by the Board 
t 0 o t h e r Federal and State bank supervisory agencies. 

-2-
In letters transmitting copies of the report to the Chairmen of the 
Banking and Currency Committees of the Congress, the Board expressed belief that 
present supervisory powers are sufficient to deal with any unsound practices 
that may arise in the bank credit-card and check-credit fields. 
Moreover, the Board said, it has taken a number of steps in its exam-
ination processes to assure reasonable practices by State member banks in such 
areas as mass mailings of credit cards, further obviating the need for legisla-
tive action. 
j 
"In particular," the letters said, "the Board considers use of pur-
chased or unscreened lists for initial mailing of credit cards objectionable; 
Personnel of the examination departments of the Reserve Banks will be checking 
make sure that banks realize the importance of developing initial mailing 
lists from their own records and carefully screening them before use." 
With respect to limits on the total amount of credit available through 
credit-card and check-credit plans, the Board declared that "specific credit 
limits should be established and revealed to credit card customers." 
"A question is being added to the examination report for State member 
nks to determine whether customers are told their credit limits and if not, 
why not," the Board added. 
Figures on volume of credit extended, repaid and outstanding under the 
Plana are now being collected on a monthly basis at the suggestion of the Task 
Gr°up and will shortly be published for the first time with the Board's monthly 
rePort on consumer credit. 
The Task Group's report said that bank-credit cards have had little 
impact thus far on consumer spending habits or consumer attitudes toward debt, 
comprise only a minor part of total consumer credit, and have had little or no 
Impact on prices paid by consumers at retail stores. 

By the end of last September, the Group found, there were 197 bank 
credit-card plans operating across the nation with outstanding credit of $633 
Million among 
more than 5 million active accounts. 
At the same time, 599 check-credit plans were in operation with out-
standing credit of $483 million spread over almost 800,000 active accounts. 
Of the approximately 800 credit-card and check-credit plans in 
existence last September, more than half were formed since the beginning of 
1966, the report said. 
The report said check-credit plans-which always function through a 
decking account and involve no link with a merchant-pose fewer operating 
Problems than credit cards. Check-credit plans permit a customer, through pre-
a*rangement with his bank, to overdraw his checking account by a specified 
amount or to issue special checks through his bank and repay his account by the 
month. 
For banks offering credit-card service, the tie with the retailer 
involving discounting of sales slips, the monthly billing of credit-card 
holders, the potential for misuse of cards, and specialized processing require-
ments have meant new operating and control procedures, the report said. 
Credit-card losses during the first six months of 1967 equaled 1.97 
Per cent of the volume of credit outstanding at the end of September, while the 
rate for check-credit was 0.23 per cent. 
Losses under these operations were greatest in their earlier years 
»hen banks were gaining experience, the report added, but the deliquency rate 
compares favorably with other types of consumer instalment credit. 

2310 
-4-
Credit-card and check-credit programs are operated mainly by large 
banks but the report cited a definite role for the small-to-medium-sized banks 
this field. Recent innovations in the organization of credit-card plans pro-
vide expanded opportunities for entry by small banks, the report added. 
In many areas, a small bank has the alternative of joining a plan 
°ffered by a larger bank or a group of banks, the report said. 
It noted that of the 197 banks reporting credit-card plans in the 
September 1967 survey, almost one-third had deposits of less than $25 million 
and one*-fourth had deposits between $25 million and $100 million. 
Some 216 banks with deposits less than $25 million operated either 
credit-card or check-credit plans or both last September. 
The report pointed out that mass mailing of cards to potential sub-
bribers has posed some problems in the past but banks now seem to be exhibiting 
c°nsiderable caution in distributing cards. 
In concluding that legilation forbidding the unsolicited mailing of 
credit cards "would seem unnecessary and undesirable," the report said that, 
Respite some dangers, mass mailing seems to be the most effective way of 
generating within the period the volume of business necessary for a successful 
Credit-card operation." 
Indeed, the report continued, such legislation might well erect a 
barrier 
to the entry of new banks into the credit card field. 
The Task Group said the System's current examination practices are 
Efficient to insure that the banks involved follow reasonable credit practices 
and develop effective controls to prevent excessive losses from the plans. 
The report indicated that credit-card and check-credit plans should 
have little, if any impact on general credit conditions in the near 
future. 

2311 
-5-
, i 
Printed copies of the report will be available later and obtainable 
for $1.00 from Publications Services, Division of Administrative Services, 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551. 

O Q i v> 
BOARD OF GOVERN•R5 
O F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q. C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 2 
7/31/68 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 31, 1968 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am enclosing copies of a report entitled, Bank 
Credit-Card and Check-Credit Plans: A Federal Reserve System 
Report, which was prepared by a System Task Group appointed in 
March 1967. Throughout the period of this study, the Task 
Group worked closely with Governor Andrew F. Brimmer who served 
as the Board's liaison with the Group. Copies of the report 
have also been sent to the Chairman of the Senate Banking and 
Currency Committee. 
The Task Group has assembled information on the nature 
of the various credit-card and check-credit plans currently in 
use by banks; has assessed the implications of bank activities 
in this area for bank competition, bank supervision, and the 
banking structure; has compiled data on the amount of this type 
of credit in relation to the total volume of consumer credit; 
and has evaluated the impact that further expansion of bank 
credit cards is likely to have on the financing of consumer 
expenditures by various grantors of consumer credit. 
When Governor Brimmer testified last November before 
your Committee on bank credit-card legislation, several members 
of the Committee requested any recommendations that the Board 
might have concerning possible legislation to prohibit unsolici-
ted mailing of bank credit cards and to require that a credit 
limit be in force for each bank credit card. For reasons which 
are briefly discussed below, the Board is not recommending 
Federal legislation in these areas at this time. 
1. Unsolicited mailing of bank credit cards. While recog-
nizing the problems that have existed in the past in this regard, 
the Board believes that past abuses and difficulties have been 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
j O , 
Honorable Wright Patraan 
-2-
largely overcome and that the risks associated with mass mailings 
are likely to be minimal in the future. The Board also believes 
that present supervisory powers are sufficient to deal with any 
unsound practices that may arise, and the Board has instructed 
its examiners to watch procedures in this area closely. In 
particular, the Board considers the use of purchased or un-
screened lists for initial mailing of credit cards objection-
able; personnel of the examination departments of the Reserve 
Banks will be checking to insure that banks realize the 
importance of developing initial mailing lists from their own 
records and carefully screening them before use. For these 
reasons, legislation forbidding the unsolicited mailing of 
credit cards would seem unnecessary. Such legislation might 
even discriminate against new entrants into the field since 
mass mailing seems to be the most effective way of generating 
the volume of business within the period necessary for a 
successful credit-card operation. 
2. Specific credit limits. Although the vast majority 
of the banks surveyed for purposes of the report have specific 
credit limitations attached to their credit-card and check-
credit plans, it is clear that some banks have not been advis-
ing their customers of such limits, except upon direct request. 
The Board is of the opinion that specific credit limits should 
be established and revealed to credit-card customers. A ques-
tion is being added to the examination report for State member 
banks to determine whether customers are told their credit 
limits and if not, why not. We believe that this matter can 
be adequately dealt with through procedures of this kind, with-
out further legislation. 
As experience develops with credit-card and check-
credit plans, it will be possible to shed additional light on 
these and other problems discussed in the Task Group report. 
Evidence is already accumulating in examination reports 
concerning the financial aspects of credit-card and check-credit 
plans and their impact on the profit and loss statements for 
individual banks. Moreover, statistics on the volume of credit 
outstanding under the plans have become a regular feature of the 
June and December bank call reports. Finally, figures on volume 
of credit extended, repaid, and outstanding--initiated at the 
suggestion of the Task Group--are now being collected on a 

BOARD DT GOVERNORS 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
314 
Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
monthly basis by the Board's Consumer Credit and Finances Section. 
The first published summary of these data will be included with 
the Board's regular press release on consumer credit some time 
this summer--after the publication of the Task Group's report. 
These monthly figures will enable us to assess the rate of growth 
of bank credit-card and check-credit plans, in absolute terms 
and in relation to other forms of consumer credit. 
The Board hopes that the report will be useful to 
the members of your Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R 5 
• r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
7/31/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1968. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Bank of America National Trust and Savings Associa-
tion, San Francisco, California, pursuant to the provisions of Section 
25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Willemstad 
Curacao, the Netherlands Antilles, and to operate and maintain such 
branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before August 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Willemstad. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of for-
eign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form of 
allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as for-
eign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign in-
vestments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maxi-
roum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 

Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association 
-2-
* •*> " i 5 * ^ • 
• v and investment activities of your bank, Bank of America, New York, 
and Bamerical International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-' 
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
. Assistant Secretary. 

^CMr' 
j l 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 4 
• F THE 
7/31/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1968. 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 16, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold approximately 7,500 shares of the capi-
tal stock of China Development Corporation, Taipei, Taiwan, 
Republic of China, at a cost of approximately $350,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corpora-
tion and Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, California, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 5 
• F THE 
7/31/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 5 P Q N O E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1968. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 11, 1968, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold approximately 5,500 additional shares of 
Peruinvest-Compania de Fomento e Inversiones S.A., Lima, 
Peru, at a cost of approximately $178,750, provided such 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. In this connection, the Board also approves the 
purchase and holding of the above shares in excess of 10 
per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 
and Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2919 
•f*AL 
RESfr-
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m N o. 
6 
• F T H E 
7/31/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R e S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your request of July 2, 1968, the 
Board of Governors extends the time within which your bank 
may acquire the shares of First National City Bank (Maghreb), 
Casablanca, Morocco, as authorized in the Board's consent of 
March 29, 1967, to March 29, 1969. 
The foregoing extension is given with the under-
standing that the investment will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your bank, International Banking Corporation, 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, and First 
National City Bank (International) and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 7 
• F THE 
7/31/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
s_2062 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1, 1968. 
• iu-i 
-
Dear Sir: 
The Board has adopted an amendment to its letter of 
June 8, 1967 (S-2020; Loose-Leaf Service 9025.01) regarding 
delegation of authority. Effective immediately, paragraph (e)(4) 
of the enclosure to that letter (S-2020-b) and paragraph 
9025.01(e)(4) of the Loose-Leaf Service are amended to read as 
follows: 
"(4) To extend the time within which an 'Edge Act' 
or 'Agreement' corporation or a member bank 
may accomplish a purchase of stock that has 
been authorized by the Board pursuant to 
section 25 or 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, if no material change has occurred in the 
general condition of the corporation or the 
member bank since such authorization." 
The purpose of this amendment is to authorize Reserve 
Banks to extend the time within which a member bank may consum-
mate a purchase of stock in a foreign bank. 
for f 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
% . :: 
.! 
in h 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

/w 
^HTsf:. 
BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
7/31/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1, 1968 
Mr. Elliott Davis, President, 
National Association of Small 
Business Investment Companies, 
537 Washington Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20005 
Dear Mr. Davis: 
This is in response to your letter of March 19, 1968, 
requesting an exemption from the registration and other require-
ments of the Board of Governors' Regulation G for small business 
investment companies ("SBICs"). Your concern is appreciated, and 
it is regretted that the press of business has prevented an earlier 
response. The question you raised has been considered by the 
Board's staff, with the cooperation and assistance of staff of the 
Small Business Administration ("SBA"), and has been submitted to the 
Board for determination. 
Regulation G, "Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers 
°r Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities" imposes restrictions on loans made or arranged in 
the ordinary course of business by persons subject to the registra-
tion requirements of the regulation, if the loans are for the purpose 
purchasing or carrying registered equity securities ("purpose 
loans") and are secured, directly or indirectly, by any such securi-
ties. Since the purpose of a loan is determined ultimately by the 
subjective intent of the borrower, the regulation requires that lenders 
who make or arrange loans against such collateral in excess of certain 
minimum amounts must register, and must obtain statements as to the 
Purpose of the loan from borrowers whose loans are collateralized, 
directly or indirectly, by such securities. 
Your letter urges that since section 107.1001 of the regula-
tions of the SBA forbids an SBIC to lend funds to be invested, or relent 
f°r investment, in equity securities, it would be appropriate to 
exempt SBICs from the registration requirements of the regulation. 
Clearly it would not be in accord with the objectives of the governing 
statute, or in harmony with the spirit of the regulations of the SBA, 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Mr. Elliott Davis 
for an SBIC to make a "purpose loan" and it is assumed that an SBIC 
would not be likely intentionally to make such a loan. However it 
would be possible for a borrower from an SBIC to obtain funds for use 
m his business secured, for example, by a guaranty which in turn is 
supported by a pledge of registered equity securities and then use 
other funds released thereby to purchase registered equity securities. 
One of the principal purposes of the Board in adopting Regu-
lation G was to bring all credit extended for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying registered equity securities within the ambit of margin 
regulation. Since the regulation could be largely ineffective if it 
were left entirely to the lender to determine the purpose of the loans 
he made, it was believed essential to obtain comprehensive information 
as to all business loans secured by collateral that included registered 
equity securities. 
It: was recognized that in some instances business entities 
which only occasionally make loans secured in this way would be required 
to register, even though it might ultimately prove that they made no 
purpose" loans. For this reason, Form G-l, for registration was made 
as simple as possible, in order to provide essential information while 
minimizing the burden of complying with the regulation. However, in 
view of the wide variety of lenders who do, from time to time, make such 
loans, and since it would be incompatible with the regulatory scheme, 
and indeed, inequitable, to exempt one group and not another, the Board 
has not granted specific exemptions from the registration requirement. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that it would not be appropriate to 
grant your request. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No> 
9 
a F T H E 
7/31/68* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P O N D E N C I 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1, 1968 
Mr. Robert P. Perkaus, President, 
First Capital Corporation of Chicago, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Perkaus: 
Yolir letter of April 8, 1968, to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago regarding the Board of Governors' Regulation G has been 
referred to the Board for reply. It is regretted that the press of 
business has prevented an earlier response. 
You state that First Capital Corporation of Chicago 
("First Capital"), a wholly owned subsidiary of The First National 
Bank of Chicago, is a small business investment company (SBIC) 
licensed by the Small Business Administration (SBA). First Capital 
has filed a registration statement under Regulation G. You have 
requested that the company be granted an exemption from the reporting 
requirements of the regulation. 
Regulation G "Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers 
or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities," imposes restrictions on loans made or arranged 
in the ordinary course of business by persons subject to the regis-
tration requirements of the regulation, if the loans are for the pur-
pose of purchasing or carrying registered equity securities ("purpose 
loans") and are secured, directly or indirectly, by any such securities. 
Since the purpose of a loan is determined ultimately by the subjective 
intent of the borrower, the regulation requires that lenders who make 
or arrange loans against such collateral in excess of certain minimum 
amounts must register, and must obtain statements as to the purpose of 
the loan from borrowers whose loans are collateralized, directly or 
indirectly, by such securities. 
Your letter urges that since section 107.1001 of the regula-
tions of the SBA forbids an SBIC to lend funds to be invested, or relent 
for investment, in equity securities, it would be appropriate to exempt 
Ml Rt^f 

Mr. Robert P. Perkaus 
- 
2 
-
SBICs from the registration requirements of the regulation. Clearly 
it would not be in accord with the objectives of the governing statute, 
or in harmony with the spirit of the regulations of the SBA, for an 
SBIC to make a "purpose loan" and it is assumed that an SBIC would not 
be likely intentionally to make such a loan. However, it would be 
possible for a borrower from an SBIC to obtain funds for use in his 
business secured, for example, by a guaranty which in turn is supported 
by a pledge of registered equity securities and then use other funds 
released thereby to purchase registered equity securities. 
One of the principal purposes of the Board in adopting Regu-
lation G was to bring all credit extended for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying registered equity securities within the ambit of margin 
regulation. Since the regulation would be largely ineffective if it 
were left entirely to the lender to determine the purpose of the loans 
he made, it was believed essential to obtain comprehensive information 
as to all business loans secured by collateral that included registered 
equity securities. 
It was recognized that in some instances business entities 
which only occasionally make loans secured in this way would be required 
to register, even though it might ultimately prove that they made no 
'purpose" loans. For this reason, Form G-l, for registration was made 
as simple as possible, in order to provide essential information while 
minimizing the burden of complying with the regulation. However, in 
view of the wide variety of lenders who do, from time to time, make 
such loans, and since it would be incompatible with the regulatory 
scheme, and indeed inequitable, to exempt one group and not another, 
the Board has not granted specific exemptions from the registration 
requirement. Accordingly, the Board concludes that it would not be 
appropriate to grant your request. 
It is noted that the information you have submitted on 
Schedule A of Form G-l is to the effect that First Capital has no 
purpose" or "non-purpose" loans secured directly or indirectly by 
registered equity securities. However, a footnote to the schedule 
states that a guarantor of the obligation of a borrower has pledged 
registered equity securities belonging to the guarantor as security 
for payment of the borrower's obligation. From this it appears that 
this obligation is secured by registered equity securities and it 
should have been so indicated in the financial table. However, inasmuch 
as the facts appear to be sufficiently indicated in the footnote to 
this table, there will be no objection to the acceptance of Schedule A 
°f the registration statement in the form in which it has been submitted 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD • F G D V E R N D R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 10 
7/31/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 30, 1968 
Mr. Carl J. Thomsen, 
Chairman of the Board and 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Thomsen: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in your 
letter of July 24, 1968, for the appointment of Messrs. Allan Y. Neale 
and Jesse L. Harris as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents, to 
succeed Messrs. John S. Garrett and Carroll D. Blake. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Messrs. Neale 
and Harris will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the 
Board of Governors for the proper performance of their duties, except that, 
during the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy 
in that office, their responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agents and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of their duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agents, Messrs. Neale and Harris may, with the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such 
work for the Bank as will not be inconsistent with their duties as Alter-
nate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents. 
It will be appreciated if Messrs. Neale and Harris are fully 
informed of the importance of their responsibilities as members of the 
staff of the Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of inde-
pendence from the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these respon-
sibilities. 
Please have Messrs. Neale and Harris execute the usual Oaths of 
Office which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with 
notification of the effective date of their appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

£326 
COPY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 11 
7/31/68 
July 30, 1968 
M r . Fletcher E. Nyce, ft-esident 
rhe Central rrust rnrrnany 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
ij«ar M r . Nyce-
7'he application of your bank, dated K av !, 1968, for per-
mission to entablirh an n^t-of-town branch at 09QQ M o n t g o m e r y Road, in the 
M o n t g o m e r y Square -hoooing Center, Montgomery, Hamilton ' iountv, Chic, 
been reviewed by thin bank. Upon inve«tiprHon. the Federal p M e r v e 
*ank of Cleveland 'inds <-hat thf caoital of the hank in adequate, that its 
^ n a g e m e n t ts «atis factory, that the propone" >rarfh will erve thr con-
v*nience and need* of the community, and 
It wit.I not tend to creatr 
undesirable, competitive situation. Accordingly, on behalf of »ne 
r,°ard of Governors of the Federal Peserve System, acting under dele^ai**. 
Authority, the Federal Peserve Bank of Cleveland hereby approves the 
Establishment of a branch by your bank at 9909 M o n t g o m e r y Poad, pro-
vided the branch is established within one year from the date of this 
l«tter. 
O n the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
f-hat the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
A 
H. W . Hunlng 
Vice President 

2927 
Item No. 12 
7/31/68 
July 30, 1968 
Mr. Donald M. Dresser, 
President 
ihe Toledo Trust Company 
Toledo, Ohio 
i^ear Mr. Dresser 
The application of your bank, dated May 9, 1968, for per-
mission to establish an in-town branch at the northeast corner of 
Laskey Road and Selma Avenue, Toledo, Lucas County, Ohio, has 
been reviewed by this bank. 
Upon investigation, the Federal Peserve 
Bank of Cleveland finds that the capital of the bank is adequate, that 
its management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch will serve the 
convenience and needs of the community, and that it will not tend to 
create an undesirable, competitive situation. 
Accordingly, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, acting under 
delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland hereby 
approves the establishment of an in-town branch by your bank at che 
northeast corner of Laskey Road and Selma Avenue, provided the branch 
ia established within one year from the date of this letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
that the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H . W . Huning 
Vice President 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 13 
7/31/68 
rif COl/^ • . 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of July 25, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Farmers State Bank of Yorkville, Yorkville, 
Illinois, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation has stated, on behalf of 
the Board of Governors, that there have been no corrective programs 
urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully 
consummated, and there are no programs that the Acting Director 
would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank 
to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

..•'of GOW-. 
; co/ 
:or 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 14 
7/31/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of July 26, 1968, con-
cerning the application of The Citizens State Bank, Hartford City, 
Indiana, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation has stated, on behalf of 
the Board of Governors, that there have been no corrective pro-
grams urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not 
been fully consummated, and there are no programs that the Acting 
Director would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting 
the bank to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assi stant Secretary. 

BDARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 15 
7/31/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
«AL Rfc^ 
August 1, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of July 22, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Union Bank and Trust Company of Greensburg, 
Greensburg, Indiana, for continuance of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation has stated, on behalf of 
the Board of Governors, that with the exception of the correction 
of the violations noted in the report of examination as of February 12, 
1968, and consideration of an increase in capital, there have been 
no corrective programs urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which 
have not been fully consummated, and there are no programs that the 
Acting Director would advise be incorporated as conditions of admit-
ting the bank to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS 
P. O. BOX 4 4 2 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 6 3 1 6 6 
Item No. 11 
7/31/68 
July 31, 19GC 
.Board of Directors 
The Twin City Dank 
P. 0. Box 5561 
North Little Rock, Arkansas 72119 
Gentlemen: 
- 
/ 
/ 
Tills will acknowledge * letter dated July 26, 1968, 
signed by President C. T. Wells, to^etfierydlth accorapanying 
resolution si^nifyin^ your inten^lost7 to Withdraw from oember-
shlp in the Federal &ioerve System, an4 requesting waiver of 
the six months' notice"of^^ch withdrawal. 
We, of oburse, regret your de&is^u. However, on 
behalf of the Doafrd of Cove r>i£ra,\ac ting under delegated author-
ity, this bank wa^ve* the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal. Under"the provisions o^ Section 
10(c) of the 
Board's Regulation U,\your institution may accomplish teruina-
tlon of pabtabe>ship at any time within eight months from ths 
date tfrfct notice of intention c6 withdraw from nembership was 
given, ppon surrender to tKls Federal Beserve Bank of the 
Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be canceled and appropriate refund will be tiade thereon. 
v \ 
) / 
\ 
Instructions in respect to effecting withdrawal of 
the bank from Mduborship are detailed in a letter addressed to 
your president. y 
Very truly yours, 
0. 0. Wyrick 
^Itww 
Vice President 
c c: Mr. Hollsnd, Secretary, Board of Governors, Washington, D. C. 
