MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 23, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 23, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
f 
t
) 
at 10:00 a.m. 
Moc- 
, 
• . . ., 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Ormsby, and Miss Eaton 
of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, 
Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Baker, Beck, 
Burns, Fry, Kelty, Kichline, and Taylor, 
and Miss Stockwell of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Solomon, Hersey, Gemmill, Altmann, 
Bradshaw, Gekker, and Stem, and Mrs. Junz 
of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Members of the staff presented the usual 
W e
ekly review, with reports on the Government securities market, bank 
credit developments, conditions in the corporate and municipal bond 
"^rkets, corporate finance, and the foreign exchange markets. 
Copies 
the several charts and tables distributed in connection with the 
• I x 
A „ : : . , 
Presentation have been placed in the Board's files. 

X / 
5/23/69 
-2-
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Partee and 
Gramley then withdrew, along with Messrs. Broida, Bernard, Sherman, and 
Morgan, and Miss Eaton, and the following entered, along with supporting 
staff: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
.'i r 
u J. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
' k 
Reserve Bank of Boston on May 19 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
t ; 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on May 22, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
j. 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
C a I 
• . • 
; ; . 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
fch • 
; 
. ;. ... 
' 
York Springs, York Springs, Pennsylvania, and Adams County National 
-U :• . • r 
Bank, Gettysburg, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Because there is a small amount of competition 
between The First National Bank of York Springs and 
Adams County National Bank, Gettysburg, the effect of 
the proposed merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 

i. y i. < ^ 
a 
5/23/69 
-3-
A draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
regarding the proposed merger of The Carolina Bank and Trust Company 
of Charleston, Charleston, South Carolina, into State Bank and Trust 
Company, Greenwood, South Carolina, was questioned by Governor Brimmer 
who noted that there was a difference of opinion within the Board's 
staff, the Division of Supervision and Regulation concluding that the 
effect of the merger on competition would be slightly adverse and the 
Banking Markets Section viewing it as adverse. In his judgment, the 
argument supporting an adverse report was the more convincing. 
Mr. Leavitt said that the slightly adverse conclusion had been 
based on the fact that, while a potential for de novo entry into the 
Charleston market on the part of State Bank and Trust did exist, the 
likelihood of such entry seemed quite remote. He noted that per capita 
deposits in Charleston were relatively low and that the distance of 
this market from Greenwood was substantial. 
Banking Markets stressed, on the other hand, that State Bank 
Was probably the only potential candidate for de novo entry. It was 
the fourth largest bank in South Carolina, and the three larger banks 
already had offices in Charleston. Thus, consummation of the proposed 
merger could effectively freeze the number of banking alternatives. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the report be modified along 
the lines of the Banking Markets memorandum, but Governor Mitchell 
indicated that he would be disposed to have the Board consider the 
report again if it were changed. Governor Daane expressed a preference 

17 
5/23/69 
-4-
for retaining the slightly adverse conclusion. He would not object, 
however, to including some parts of the Banking Markets memorandum. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the transmission to the 
Corporation of a report concluding that the effect of the proposed 
merger on competition would be adverse was approved, Governors Mitchell 
and Daane voting for a conclusion of slightly adverse. The conclusion 
of the report, as transmitted, read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing 
between State Bank and Trust Company, Greenwood, and 
The Carolina Bank and Trust Company of Charleston. 
However, State Bank and Trust Company appears to be 
the bank most likely to enter the Charleston market 
by de novo branching and thus potential competition 
would be eliminated upon consummation of the proposed 
merger. The overall competitive effect would be 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank and Trust Company in Steubenville, 
Steubenville, Ohio, with Second National Bank in Steubenville, 
Steubenville, Ohio, a transaction designed to facilitate acquisition 
^-U' li 
: 
.1 
°f the existing bank by a holding company, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion 
r
ead as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank and Trust Company in Steubenville, 
Steubenville, Ohio, with Second National Bank in 
Steubenville, Steubenville, Ohio, would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e
r g e r of First Security National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas, 

1721 
i 
5/23/69 
-5-
with Security National Bank, Beaumont, Texas, a transaction designed 
to facilitate acquisition of the existing bank by a holding company, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First Security 
National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas, with Security 
National Bank, Beaumont, Texas, would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
In connection with the last two of the above mentioned compet-
itive factor reports, each of which involved a merger to facilitate 
acquisition of an existing bank by a newly-formed holding company, 
Governor Mitchell raised the possibility of delegating authority for 
the transmittal of such reports. 
VI 
• , 
; . .... -
Governor Brimmer expressed a preference for not delegating but 
suggested that, since such reports were usually approved as a matter of 
course, it would be helpful if the staff memoranda would clearly indicate 
the type of transaction involved, thereby permitting the Board to act 
with a minimum of time investment. However, Governors Mitchell and 
Daane felt that even such a device was unnecessary. 
1 y; \ ? 
It was agreed that the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
would investigate the possibility of delegating authority for furnishing 
competitive factor reports of this nature and report back to the Board. 
Bank of Las Vegas. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated May 15, 1969, submitting a proposed order 
a n
d statement reflecting the Board's approval on May 5, 1969, of the 

5/23/69 
-6-
application of Bank of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada to merge with 
Valley Bank of Nevada, Reno, Nevada. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized; copies 
are attached under Item No. 1. 
First Virginia Bank of the Southwest. 
There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
May 8, 1969, and other pertinent papers relating to the application of 
First Virginia Bank of the Southwest, Christiansburg, Virginia, to 
merge with Bank of New River Valley, Radford, Virginia. 
Mr. Egertson summarized the factors surrounding the application, 
including the fact that the banks were both subsidiaries of First 
Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, a registered bank 
holding company. 
Mr. Egertson noted, however, that applicant had, through over-
sight, neglected until recently to publish the required notice of the 
Proposed merger. Under these circumstances, it would be necessary to 
delay the issuance of the Board's order and statement covering action 
°n the application for about one month. 
Following discussion, it was agreed that the Legal Division 
would draft a proposed order and statement, to be available in the 
e
vent of approval. However, a formal vote on the application would 
be deferred until after expiration of the statutory waiting period. 
Regulation Z interpretations. A package of seven interpreta-
tions of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, had been distributed, along 

5/23/69 
-7-
with a draft press release announcing these interpretations, which 
dealt with a variety of matters in the truth in lending area. 
There 
being no objection, the interpretations were approved unanimously. 
There had also been distributed a memorandum dated May 20, 
1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation regarding a 
proposed interpretation relating to "security interest," defined in 
Regulation Z to include confessed liens whether or not recorded and, 
In general, to include any interest in property which secures payment 
°r performance of an obligation. This definition was used in the 
regulation to effectuate the purpose of section 125 of the Truth in 
Lending Act, which provides a right of rescission in certain trans-
actions in which a security interest is retained or acquired in any 
real property that is used or is expected to be used as the principal 
residence of the customer. 
According to the memorandum, in some ten States confession of 
Judgment clauses or cognovit provisions apply. Such clauses and 
Provisions in notes give a third party power of attorney to confess or 
enter judgment against an obligor or to record a lien upon the real and 
Personal property of the obligor. The proposed interpretation would 
have the effect of excluding from the definition of "security interest" 
confession of judgment clauses and cognovit provisions only in those 
States where the obligor is entitled to notice of the pending action 
a
nd is afforded an opportunity to enter defenses before a lien may be 
recorded on his property. 

5/23/69 
-8-
The rationale for such an interpretation was discussed, 
together with certain complications that might result from it, 
following which Governor Robertson expressed the view that any con-
fession of judgment clause should be required to carry with it the 
right to a 3-day rescission period unless a lien on the residence of 
the customer was specifically excluded. He suggested that this would 
seem closest to the statutory intent and that the only feasible 
alternative might be to require amendments to State laws, a course 
which would probably entail greater problems. Governor Robertson 
recognized that certain States might encounter administrative diffi-
culties initially, but in his view those could be solved. 
It was agreed that it would be appropriate to issue an inter-
pretation along the lines mentioned by Governor Robertson. The issu-
ance of such an interpretation, along with the other seven interpreta-
tions approved earlier in the meeting, was authorized by unanimous vote. 
Attached under Item No. 2 are copies of the eight interpreta-
tions and an additional one regarding "customers" and joint owners of 
property in relation to the right of rescission that was approved on 
M
a y 26, 1969. 
In connection with the foregoing discussion of interpretations 
°f Regulation Z, Governor Brimmer asked whether the Board had not 
delegated the authority to make such interpretations to Governor 
Robertson or, in his absence, M r . Solomon. Mr. Holland replied that, 
while such delegation had been considered, the Legal Division had felt 

1 
/ ^ O 
5/23/69 
-9-
that problems existed in that regard. It was agreed, however, that 
the possibility should be reexamined by the Legal Division and again 
presented to the Board. 
Foreign subsidiaries. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated May 16, 1969, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and the Legal Division. This memorandum dealt with the question (a) 
whether a foreign subsidiary of a U.S. bank or Edge corporation may 
purchase and hold "rights" to acquire shares in a U.S. company or a 
company doing business in the United States and (b) if so, whether the 
Board's prior consent is necessary to the acquisition of such "rights". 
This question had arisen out of requests made in early January 
by Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, New York, New York, 
National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan, and Security First National 
Corporation, Los Angeles, California, for certain changes in the con-
ditions attached to the Board's consent of December 4, 1968, with regard 
to their additional investments in Western American Bank (Europe) 
Limited, London, England. 
The memorandum concluded that the acquisition of "rights" to 
shares in companies doing business in the United States, as opposed to 
the exercise of such "rights," did not seem in conflict with any 
statutory prohibitions or with any considerations of regulatory policy, 
and that the request for relief seemed justified and reasonable. 
It 
further suggested that, since there was reason to believe that the issue 
raised by this request was of some concern generally, it would seem 

X / 
' t 
5/23/69 
-10-
proper to extend any relief provided in this case to all foreign 
subsidiaries of member banks and of Edge and Agreement corporations. 
This general approach could be accomplished through a published Board 
interpretation, a draft of which was attached to the memorandum. 
There being no objection, the issuance of the proposed inter-
pretation was authorized. A copy is attached under Item No. 3. Also 
attached, under Item No. 4, is a copy of the letter sent to Wells Fargo 
Bank International Corporation. 
Similar letters were sent to National 
Bank of Detroit and Security First International Corporation. 
State and local taxes on national banks. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated May 22, 1969, regarding requests for 
reports on H.R. 7491, H.R. 3826, and H.R. 2182, bills that would autho-
rize the imposition of various State taxes on national banks. 
A hearing on these bills had been scheduled by the House 
Banking and Currency Committee for Monday, May 26, and the staff of 
that Committee had asked that the Board's views be presented at that 
time. However, Mr. Cardon understood that the need for a hearing had 
been based on reports that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
a
nd the Comptroller of the Currency disagreed on details of the bills; 
he had since learned that those two agencies had agreed on the follow-
ing 
wording of an amendment to section 5219 of the Revised Statutes 
that had been prepared by the Comptroller: 
"Par. 5. 
In addition to the other methods of 
taxation permitted herein, a state or political sub-
division thereof may impose sales taxes and use taxes 

1727 
5/23/69 
-li-
on a national bank having its principal office within 
such state in the same manner and to the same extent 
as such taxes are imposed upon a state chartered bank 
having its principal office within such state." 
This agreement apparently made the hearing unnecessary, and 
Mr. Cardon assumed that it would not be held. 
There was attached to the May 22 memorandum a draft of letter 
to Chairman Patman regarding the bills. It was understood that a 
letter would be acceptable in lieu of testimony even if plans for 
the hearing were carried out. This letter, in the form of a response 
to previous requests for a report on the bills involved, favored equal 
treatment of national and State banks in the matter of liability for 
taxes imposed by the State and local governments in the State where 
the principal office was located and recommended adoption of the 
language proposed by the Comptroller's Office. 
Governor Robertson obj ected to the Comptroller's language as 
be ing too narrow. He felt that the Board should express itself as 
favoring equality of taxation between national and State banks, and 
say that the Comptroller's proposal would represent one step in that 
direction. 
Governor Mitchell, on the other hand, felt that this was the 
most that it was reasonable to expect. He believed that national banks 
would oppose strongly any broader erosion of their tax advantages. 
Governor Maisel agreed with Governor Robertson's basic posi-
tion that, while its attainment might not be feasible at present, 
complete equality should be sought as a goal. 

1728 
5/23/69 
-12-
While differences of view remained on the broad issues 
involved, it was agreed unanimously to send a letter endorsing the 
proposed amendment as submitted by the Treasury Department. A copy 
of the letter sent to Chairman Patman is attached as Item No. 5. 
Memphis Branch building program. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated May 15, 1969, from the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations regarding the Memphis Branch building program. 
A 
letter had been received from President Francis of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis reporting that a review had been made of the Memphis 
Branch construction program as a result of the Board's letter of 
April 11, 1969. Based on that review, the Bank's directors and man-
agement continued to believe the project to be urgent and would not 
recommend deferring it. Therefore, the Bank had forwarded detailed 
plans and specifications, as well as current cost estimates. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of a telegram that would 
advise President Francis that the Board had no objection to the final 
Plans and specifications for the proposed Memphis Branch building. 
It 
would also refer to the Board's press release of April 9, 1969, regard-
ing the curtailment of Federal Reserve building programs and indicate 
that, if the St. Louis Bank directors decided to proceed with the 
Memphis project at this time, the Board of Governors would assume that 
the directors would be prepared to defend the priority accorded to it. 
Following comments by Governor Mitchell, the telegram was 
approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 

5/23/69 
-13-
Cincinnati Branch building program. There had been distributed 
copies of a letter dated May 15, 1969, which had been received from 
President Hickman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland regarding 
construction of the new Cincinnati Branch building. Attached to that 
letter was a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors of the 
Cleveland Reserve Bank in response to the Board's letter of May 7, 
1969, raising certain questions as to the cost and timing of the 
c < 
. 
building project. The resolution recommended that the Board authorize 
the Bank to proceed as rapidly as possible to receive bids on the 
basis of the present building plans. 
Also distributed was a memorandum dated May 22, 1969, from 
Mr. Mcintosh relating to the design and use of expansion space in 
new Reserve Bank buildings. 
Following remarks by Governor Mitchell, the Board's Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans was authorized to 
determine the priority that should be accorded this project and whether 
further revisions in the building plans should be required, having in 
mind the desirability of leasing any unused space. It was noted that 
the burden of proof should rest with the Reserve Bank, with the Board's 
Committee judging whether a strong enough case had been made. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

17 
Item N o . 
5/23/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
BANK OF LAS VEGAS
 
1 
for approval of mercer with
 
1 
Valley Bank of Nevada
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by the Bank 
of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
bank with Valley Bank of Nevada, Reno, Nevada, under the charter of 
the former and under the name, Valley Bank of Las Vegas. As an 
incident to the merger, the four offices of Valley Bank of Nevada 
would become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the pro-
posed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
pursuant to said A c t . 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said A c t , including reports furnished 
by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 

1731 
-2-
IT IG HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board
f
s Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is e::tended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 23th day of May, 1969, 
By order of the Board of Governors 
Voting for this action: Chairman Ilartin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane, 
(signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichcel 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

173° 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY BANK OF IAS VEGAS 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
VALLEY BANK OF NEVADA 
STATEMENT 
Bank of Las Vegas, Las Vegas, Nevada, with total deposits 
of $140 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the merger of 
that bank with Valley Bank of Nevada, Reno, Nevada ("Reno Bank"), 
which has deposits of $22 million."" 
The banks would merge under 
the charter of Bank of Las Vegas, a member of the Federal Reserve 
System, and under the name, Valley Bank of Las Vegas ("Las Vegas 
Bank"). As an incident to the merger, the four offices of Reno Bank 
would become branches of Las Vegas Bank, increasing the number of its 
offices to 15. 
Competition. - Las Vegas Bank operates its head office and 
two branches in Las Vegas (population 130,000); its other eight offices 
are in the Las Vegas Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, which is 
coterminous with Clark County (population 240,000), the southernmost 
county in Nevada, Las Vegas Bank, with 30 per cent of the deposits, 
is the second largest of the five commercial banks that operate offices 
in the Las Vegas SMSA and, with nearly 15 per cent of the deposits, it 
is also the second largest of Nevada's nine commercial banks. 
17 Figures are as of December 31, 1968. 

1733 
-2-
Reno Bank operates its head office and one branch in Reno 
(population 75,000), and has received approval to open an additional 
office there; its other office is about 36 miles southwest of Reno. 
All of Reno Bank's offices are in Washoe County (population 115,000), 
and are more than 400 miles northwest of Las Vegas. Reno Bank, with 
about 7 per cent of the deposits, is the fourth largest of the five 
commercial banks that operate offices in the Reno SMSA; it is the 
seventh largest bank in the State, with approximately 2 per cent of the 
total commercial bank deposits. 
There is no competition between Las Vegas Bank and Reno Bank 
and, although Nevada law permits State-wide branching, the development 
of competition between them appears unlikely. Reno Bank was organized 
in 1963 by the present management and substantial shareholders of 
Las Vegas Bank as an alternative to entering the Reno market through 
de novo branching. As of the end of 1968, shareholders owning 52 per 
cent of the stock of Las Vegas Bank also held 81 per cent of the stock 
of Reno Bank; each bank has nine directors, four of whom are directors 
°f both. 
The proposed merger would not have an adverse effect on 
competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
a
*e reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
Resulting bank. 

1734 
-2-
Convenience and needs of the communities, - The proposed 
merger is in essence a step to transform the offices of Reno Bank 
from de facto to dja jure branches of Las Vegas Bank, This change in 
corporate structure would make it simpler for the offices now opera-
ted under Reno Bank's charter to provide the wider range of banking 
services that are available from Las Vegas Bank, thus enhancing the 
banking convenience of the area served by Reno Bank. 
Summary and conclusion, - In the judgment of the Board, 
the proposed merger would benefit the banking convenience of the 
- 
• : -A - . 
.... 
.;... 
. 
' 
area served by Reno Bank, and would not have an adverse effect on 
banking competition. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
Way 23, 1969. 

1735 
Item No. 2 
5/23/69 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. Z) 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Interpretations 

1736 
-1-
t 
?22G. 202 Security interest--confessi.on of judgment--cognovit notes 
(a) Under § 226.2(z) "security interest" is defined to include 
laid •. • 
c
°nfessed liens whether or not recorded and, in general, to include any 
i M 
Merest in property which secures payment or performance of an obligation, 
certain transactions involving a security interest, under § 226.9 the 
c 
u
stotner has a right of rescission. 
(b) 
In some of the states, confession of judgment clauses or 
°8novit provisions are lawful and make it possible for the holder of an 
•
]
-gation containing such clause or provision to record a lien on property 
0 f
 the obligor simply by recordation entry of judgment; the obligor is afforded 
no 
°PPortunity to enter a defense against such action prior to entry of the 
J u d
Sment. 
(c) Since confession of judgment clauses and cognovit provisions 
s u
c h states have the effect of depriving the obligor of the right to be 
notif* i 
n e d of a pending action and to enter a defense in a judicial proceeding 
judgment may be entered or recorded against him, such clauses and 
Asians in those states are security interests under § 226.2(z) and for 
th 
0
 Purposes of § 226.7(a)(7), § 226.8(b)(5), and 5 226.9. This is the case 
v 
the judgment cannot be entered until after a default by the obligor. 
(d) Confession of judgment clauses and cognovit provisions which, 
by . j 
terms, exclude a lien on all real property which is used or is 
"tW ' 
e
cted to be used as the principal residence of the customer, would not 
2 a transaction under the provisions of 5 226.9. 
• 'V-'f 
. 
•' 
• • 
. 
V26/ 69 

1737 
- 2-
§ 226.203 Ooen end credit distinp.uished from other crcdit 
(a) The fundamental qualification for "open end credit" 
. 
' 
' 
• 
' 
" 
• 
. 
> ' 
' 
• 
• 
• 
under 3 226.2(r) is that consumer credit be extended on an account 
Pursuant to a plan under which (1) the creditor may permit the customer 
make purchases or obtain loans from time to time directly or indirectly 
from the creditor, as the plan may provide; (2) the customer has the 
Privilege of paying the balance in full or in instalments; and (3) a 
finance charge may be computed by the creditor from time to time on an 
Ci on ; 
• . 
• • • > ., 
°'
J
ts tanding 
unpaid balancc. Under an open end credit account plan, it 
s
 contemplated that there will or may be repetitive transactions on a 
revolving basis. 
(b) 
In certain cases, a form of contract or note relating to 
a
 single tranoaction provides that the finance charge will be computed 
fro 
on
* time to time by application of a rate to the unpaid balance and 
s
*"ipulates required minimum periodic payments. 
However, the obligor 
* 'hit the privilege of making larger and more frequent payments than 
tipulated or paying the obligation in full at any time without penalty. 
Tl 
e
 question arises as to whether the creditor should make disclosures in 
S U c
h circumstances under 5 226.7 for open end credit accounts or under 
J
 ^ 6 . 3 for credit other than open end. 
(c) Although the terms of such a contract or note meet the 
S G c
ond n n cj third requirements for such a plan, they do not meet the first 
Such requirements nor the basic qualification that consumer credit be 
t e n d e d on an account pursuant to a plan. Therefore, d isclosures in 
th-» 
s
 case are required to be made under 5 226.8. 
(Interprets and applies 15 USC 1602) 
.
 
5 /
26/69 

.."it .1o- 
. . 
S 226.301 A g r i c u l t u r a l purposes--when exempt from the Regulation 
(a) Under g 226.3(a), the Regulation does not apply to 
"Extensions of credit to organizations, including governments, or for 
business or commercial purposes, other than agricultural purposes." 
The definition of "organization" in § 226.2(s) includes a corporation, 
. i n L • u
, 
• 
. 
, . • 
; 
trust, estate, partnership, cooperative, or association as well as 
governmental entities. The question arises as to whether the Regula-
tion applies to extensions of credit to organizations, including 
governments, i
:
or agricultural purposes. 
"ill ; : • (b) Extensions of credit to organizations, including 
; 
. 'I 
- ! 
governments, for agricultural purposes are exempt from the Regulation. 
Vimtin 
. . .... 
• 
„ . 
,, 
r 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1603) 
•n 
. , 
5/26/69 

173S 
-4-
§ 226,502. Annual, percentage rate on single add-on rate transactions. 
I * 
, 2 2 : ; . . 
. - 
. 
' 
. ! 
(a) The application of a single add-on rate to transactions 
°f varying maturities, when converted to an annual percentage rate 
determined by the actuarial method, results in minor variations. Such 
Annual percentage rate variations on maturities up to sixty months are 
S o
 insignificant that separate computations are unwarranted. 
(b) The question arises as to whether a creditor may disclose 
single annual percentage rate on all such transactions based upon the 
highest rate which will arise from the application of the same single 
add-on rate to each of such transactions. 
> • 
(c) When the same add-on rate is applied to all transactions 
w
ithin a range of maturities up to 60 months, and provided that all pay-
nie
nts on each transaction are equal in amount and due at equal intervals 
time within the limits provided by § 226.5(d),a single annual percentage 
r
°te may be disclosed, in which case it shall be the highest annual per-
C e
ntage rate that may be applicable to any such transactions. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1606) 
- W
u
. . ? • 
- . a..•• 
• 
'••• ; 
' •• 
i 
5
/26/69 

1710 
H 
-2-
W Z n . : - ' - , /: 
. 
.. 
. 
: it 
i 
: 
. 
- ' 
§ 226.3C5 Series of sales as distinguished from refinancing, consolidating, 
or increasing 
(a) The question arises as to the distinction between the 
provisions of § 226.8(h), series of sales, and the provisions of § 226.8(j), 
refinancing, consolidating, or increasing. 
o y 
(b) Section 226.3(h) is applicable only when a credit sale is 
niade pursuant to an agreement which provides for the addition of a current 
(or new) sale to an existing outstanding balance. In such cases, and 
Provided that all of the requirements of § 226.8(h)(1) and (2) are met, the 
disclosures may be made at any time not later than the date the first 
Payment for that sale is due. 
(c) 
If there is no agreement, or if the agreement does not 
m
eet all of the requirements of § 2.26.8(h), the disclosures required in 
c
onnection with any subsequent sale, which is added to a previously out-
standing balance shall be made under the provisions of § 226.8(j). 
For 
e
xatnple, the fact that an agreement provides a method of computing an un-
e a
n i e d portion of the finance charge in the event of prepayment, but does not 
°therwise meet the requirements of § 226.8(h), will not qualify transactions 
m
ade pursuant to that agreement for disclosure under the terms of § 226.8(h). 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1633) 
5 /
26/69 

1741 
-6-
''•Jftjlp, 
5 226.806 Deposit: balances applied toward satisfaction of customer's 
obiireat ion 
(a) 
Section 2 2 6 . 3 ( e ) ( 2 ) provides that required deposit 
balances must be deducted under (J 2 2 6 . 8 ( c ) ( 6 ) and excluded under 
5 226.8(d)(1) in determining the amount financed. Subdivision (ii) 
§ 226.3(e)(2) provides an exception in the case of Morris Plan type 
transactions in which payments in the transaction are made and accu-
mulated in a deposit account which is then wholly applied to satisfy 
the obligation. 
(b) Unless the deposit balance account is created for the 
s
°le purpose of accumulating payments and then being applied 
t o
ward satisfaction of the customer's obligation in the transaction, 
S u c
h deposit balance does not fall within the exception provided in 
subdivision 
( i i ) . 
(c) 
In any case in which a deposit balance qualifies for 
exception, each deposit made into the account shall be considered 
t l l G
 same as a payment on the obligation for the purpose of computations 
a n d
 disclosures. 
• ?? -v 
-
(Interprets and applies 15 USC 1638 
and 15 USC 1639) 
1 <v««»». . 
• 
I . , J , 
. 
. . , 
. 
- 
\ 
U ' 
' 
' 
IV, ' ' ' .: : , 
• ' 
• v " ~ 7 ~ J '«• 
5
/26/ 6 9 
' ^ 
or.-. ; 
,,;v.i' : ; 
•r'-v-'^' 

I I, 
1742 
-7-
5§ 226.901 Waiver of security interests — effect on the ri^ht of rescission 
(a) Section 226.9(a) provides for a right of rescission 'in the 
C a
se of any [consumer] crc.lit; transaction in V7hich a security interest is or 
w
U l be retained or acquired in any real property which is used or is expected 
. jot 
. 
. 
i. 
to be used as the principal residence of the customer. "Under 5 226.2(z) 
security interests include mechanic's and materialmen's liens. If a creditor 
effectively waives his right to retain, or to acquire such a lien, he has not 
'jjU'.fc o f 
retained or acquired such security interest 
The question arises, however, 
** ch> 
o f
 whether waiver of a creditor's lien rights is effective to remove a trans-
a c
tion from the scope of rescission when lien rights which are not waived 
.^fcsJi tur 
a r
ise in favor of subcontractors, workmen, or others who are not creditors in 
t t l e
 transaction. 
re • • . 
(b) The fact that the creditor waives his lien rights does not, 
V - S ; • 
. 
t i 
l n
 itself, determine whether or not the transaction is rescindable. 
If all 
security interests are effectively waived, the transaction is not rescindable. 
°
n
 the other hand, if as a result of the transaction, a security interest is 
°
r
 will be retained or acquired by a subcontractor, workman, or other person, 
t h e
 transaction is rescindable. 
In the latter case the creditor would be 
r
esponstble for delivering the rescission notice as well as other applicable 
d l
sclosures, delaying performance as provided under § 226.9(c), and identifying 
hlltl
self a s 
t h e creditor on the rescission notice. The subcontractors, workmen, 
a n d
 others would not be r e s p o n s i b l e for delivering rescission notices to the 
^stomer. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1635) 
5
/26/69 

1743 
-8-
§ 2?6.902 
"Customers" and joint owners of property under the right of rescission 
(a) Section 226.9(f) provides that, for the purposes of the 
right of rescission, "customer" shall include two or more customers where 
• 
joint ownership is involved. The question arises of whether this means 
all joint owners of record, regardless of whether or not they are 
Pities to the transaction, are customers for this purpose, and whether 
en
c.h 0 f s u c h owners of record (1) must receive disclosures and a notice 
the right of rescission, (2) may exercise the right of rescission, and 
(3) 
fj • 
E d i t o r . 
must join in signing a waiver if one is appropriately taken by the 
It 
M 
: 
. .. . 
. . . . 
. 
. • 
. 
(b) Under § 226.9(f) where there are joint owners, the right 
to v 
receive disclosures and notice of the right of rescission, the right to 
» -I- " 
r c s
cind, and the need to sign a waiver of such right, apply only to those 
int 
& 2 
i Au 
n t
 owners who are parties to the transaction. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1635) 

_9_ 
1.7-14 
M 
§ 226.403 Disclosure of cost of property insurance when not obtainable 
froin or throtigh the creditor 
(a) In many cases a creditor requires insurance against loss 
°r damage to property or liability arising out jt its use but such insurance 
is not obtainable from or through him. The question arises under § 226.4(a)(6) 
a
s to whether such a creditor must make any disclosures to avoid having to 
include the insurance premium in the finance charge. 
(b) 
Irrespective of whether such insurance may be obtained from 
°
r
 through the creditor, if the creditor requires property insurance and wishes 
t o
 exclude the cost from the finance charge, he is required to state cleatly 
a
nd conspicuously to the customer that he may choose the person through which 
:•; <> C . y 
the insurance is to be obtained. However, if the insurance is not obtainable 
? J, 
from or through the creditor, he is not required to disclose the cost of that 
^surance, unless, of course, the premiums are included in the "amount financed, 
which case it would have to be disclosed under 5 226.8(c)(4) or (d)(1), as 
case may be. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 
Dated at Washington, D.C., The 26th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert Po Forrestal 
( s e a l ) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1745 
Of GOiV • 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item N o . 3 
5/23/69 
S-2091 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPDNDCNCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 13, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
'C^n't 
The Board recently considered whether foreign subsidiaries 
°f member banks and Edge and Agreement corporations should be per-
mitted to acquire, without Board consent, "rights" to acquire shares 
itt companies organized or doing business in the United States, in 
connection with extensions of credit to foreign affiliates of such 
companies. 
The Board concluded that section 25(a) does not require 
&oard consent in such cases. The Board, therefore, declared that, 
subject to certain specified conditions, Board consent is no longer 
n
ecessary for the acquisition of such "rights" incident to credit 
extensions or the purchase of debt obligations by such foreign 
subsidiaries. 
Enclosed is the interpretation under Regulations K and M 
reflecting these conclusions. 
The interpretation will be published 
shortly in the Federal Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
^Wtf • 
• 
' - 
a 
Very truly yours, 
-
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^ c l o s u r e 
T o
 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
PART 211 - CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN BANKING AND 
FINANCING UNDER THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
Acquisition of "Rights" 
S 211,104 Acquisition of rights to acquire shares incident to extensions 
of credit, 
(a) When the Board grants its specific consent for a member 
bank or a corporation organized under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (an "Edge" corporation) or operating pursuant to an agree-
-
ment with the Board under section 25 thereof (an "Agreement" corporation) 
to acquire a controlling stock interest in another corporation, the 
terms of such consent ordinarily condition the continued holding of 
such stock upon the requirement that the subsidiary limit its 
activities 
to those permissible for an Edge corporation^. Except for 
investments in the shares of "foreign corporations not doing business 
in the United States" to the limited extent authorized by the general 
consent in § 211.8(a) of this part or as otherwise permitted in 
5
 211.8(b) or § 211.8(c)(2), specific consent of the Board is required 
before an Edge corporation may acquire "shares" in another corporation. 
A c t i o n 211.8(c)(2) provides that "unless otherwise specified, 'shares' 
l
n this section includes any rights to acquire shares • • , 

-2-
1747 
(b) In borrowing abroad through affiliates to finance their 
overseas operations, United States corporations have made increasing 
use of obligations convertible into shares of the parent corporation 
or have offered rights to acquire such shares (both such convertible 
obligations and rights hereinafter being collectively referred to as 
"rights"). Since many foreign subsidiaries of member banks and Edge 
and Agreement corporations are important sources for such financing, 
the question has arisen whether the Board should permit such subsidiaries 
to acquire, without its consent, such "rights" to acquire shares of 
corporations which are organized or doing business in the United States. 
(c) Having concluded that such subsidiaries should in certain 
circumstances be permitted to acquire such "rights" without its consent 
and that section 25(a) does not require otherwise, the Board hereby 
specifies that, as used in § 211.8(b), the term "shares" does not include 
"tights" to acquire shares of other corporations, even those organized 
doing business in the United States; provided that such "rights" 
(1) are exercised only with specific consent of the Board, (2) are 
acquired incident to an extension of credit or the purchase of a debt 
°bligation, (3) have an investment value relatively small in relation 
to the obligation to which they pertain, and (4) will not cause the 
subsidiary to have invested more than $500,000 in the "rights" and 
shares of any corporation. 
(d) In this connection it is noted that section 25(a) prohibits 
purchase and holding of stock (including the exercise of "rights") 

1748 
I 
-2-
if the issuer is "engaged in the general business of buying or selling 
goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States [or 
transacts] any business in the United States except such as in the 
judgment of the Board • . . may be incidental to its international or 
foreign business • • . ." 
(12 UoS.C. 615. Interprets or applies 12 U.S.C, 615(c).) 
Dated at Washington, D . C . this 5th day of June 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1749 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
\W\H\-
ClIArTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. M] 
PART 213 - FOREIGN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
Acquisition of "Rights" 
J
 '13.102 Acquisition of rights to acquire shares incident to extensions 
of credit. 
• 
*'• -' i . .. .'i r, 
For text of this interpretation, see 5 211.104 of this 
subchapter, 
(12 U.S.C. 601. Interprets or applies 12 U.S.C. 601.) 
Dated at Washington, D , C., this 5th day of June, 1969. 
"I'Vir: 
. • 
.1 ; . • • . 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary* 
• • i; ...'.»." ; 
..,.'.. . . .... ;. 
(SEAL) 
••> i.1 L". L U J 
. • 
Jr. • j. -

B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1750 
Item No. 4 
5/23/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 17, 1969 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
Corporation, 
40 Wall Street, 
;
 New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
. i c 
This is in response to your letter of January 7, 1969 
regarding the acquisition, without prior Board consent, by 
Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, London, England, of 
conversion rights or warrants incidental to its medium-term 
extensions of credit. 
The Board has considered this subject and reached the 
conclusions set forth in an interpretation which will be published 
shortly in the Federal Register. A copy of the interpretation is 
enclosed for your information. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

1751 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
Item No. 5 
5/23/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 23, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your requests for the Board's 
views on H. R. 7491 and other bills to clarify the liability 
°f national banks for certain State and local taxes. 
The Board endorses the amendment to section 5219 of 
the Revised Statutes as submitted to your Committee by the 
Treasury Department to accomplish that purpose. 
Sincerely, 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
1752 
Item No. 6 
5/23/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
May 23, 1969 
FCo-. ^ 
0.. - J
j 
*_h - S 
.' i 
FRANCIS - ST. LOUIS 
Board has no objection to final plans and specifications on proposed 
Memphis Branch building which were forwarded with your letter of 
April 22. 
. 
With regard to timing question, Board is of the opinion that under 
current economic conditions all new construction except that of 
highest priority should be postponed. Board's basic position on this 
matter was stated in its press release of April 9 in which it announced 
- U - . 
i. • 
• 
: i 
.1 
. - v . - - 
• 
w • i 
that construction of Board's annex building was being postponed indefi-
I. 
• • - U h ... 
e 
"a I, 
• 
nitely and that Reserve Banks and branches were being asked to defer or 
reduce construction programs to maximum extent practicable. 
If, after careful consideration in light of Board's statement and 
.',*.:v rnui' K o b v t n o n 
views, your Directors decide to proceed with building program at this 
time, Board assumes they will be prepared to defend the priority 
Governs • ' -'•(".•• 
accorded to it. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
CARMICHAEL 
