MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 6, 1970 

zzrz 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 6, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York and San Francisco on July 30, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 

ItJJdV 3 
8/6/70 
-2-
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
First Financial Corporation. Drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's denial on July 30, 1970, of the application of 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank 
of Clearwater, Clearwater, Florida, had been distributed. 
After discussion that resulted in agreement with suggestions 
tor editorial and other relatively minor changes in the statement, the 
issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies of the docu-
ments, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
First Michigan Bank and Trust Company. In a memorandum dated 
July 29, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of First Michigan Bank and Trust Company, 
Zeeland, Michigan, to establish a branch in a suburb of Grand Rapids. 
The establishment of the branch had been approved by the State Commissioner 
for Banking, but the legality of that action was being contested in court. 
Accordingly, the Division suggested that a paragraph be included in the 
letter to applicant that would state that the Board's action should not 
be construed as a determination by the Board of the legality of the pro-
.- U.I ) r 
... i.i V • 
posed branch site under State law and confirm the understanding that the 
branch would not open for business unless the litigation was resolved in 
its favor. 

2274 
8/6/70 
-3-
During discussion alternative approaches were considered, in-
cluding a suggestion that no action be taken pending the outcome of the 
litigation and a suggestion that the Board act upon the application but 
not make known its decision until such time as applicant was in a posi-
tion to proceed with the establishment of the branch. 
After further discussion, however, the application was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that a paragraph along the lines 
suggested by the Division would be included in the letter to the appli-
cant. A copy of the letter subsequently sent is attached as Item No. 2. 
Other actions. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective item numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Security New York State Corporation, 
3 
Rochester, New York, prepared in the light of 
discussion at the meeting on August 4, 1970, 
relating to the scope of permissible activities 
°f an insurance agency subsidiary acquired in 
accordance with section 4(c)(5) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. 
Letter to First National City Bank (Inter- 
4 
national), San Francisco, California, (1) 
granting permission to issue and have out-
standing promissory notes of over one year 
payable to the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States, and (2) denying its request to 
exceed the limitations of section 211.9(b) of 
Regulation K and to have outstanding loans to 
individual borrowers of up to $5,000,000 within 
an overall limitation of $30,000,000. 

n o ^ t r 
8/6/70 
-4-
Eximbank Discount Loan Corporation. A request had been received 
from the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's views on the 
proposal of the Export-Import Bank to establish an Eximbank Discount Loan 
Corporation to provide a discount facility for export paper. In a mem-
orandum dated August 5, 1970, the Division of International Finance recom-
mended that the Board take the position that creation of such a facility 
at this time would not be desirable. Attached to the memorandum was a 
draft letter to such effect. Among the arguments advanced were that the 
operation of the Eximbank Discount Loan Corporation would interfere at 
times with the effective management of monetary policy and that the issue 
of financing Government activities outside the Federal budget should be 
resolved as a basic policy issue. 
During an exchange of views there was general agreement that 
the issue of financing Government activities outside the Federal budget 
was not a matter to which the Board need address itself in this context. 
Further, one Board member observed that it was not clear from the docu-
mentation just how the plan would work. If it was contemplated that the 
discount corporation would borrow in the market and lend at a lesser rate, 
a matter of subsidy was involved, and he would not be averse to stressing 
that point. Another member expressed the view that the proposed letter 
did not focus on what appeared to him to be the major area of concern. 
Because of the limited size of the agency market, access to it should 
be reserved for uses of highest priority. 

8/6/70 
_5_ 
It was pointed out that there was no persuasive evidence that 
the balance of payments had been adversely affected by lack of adequate 
export financing. Further, it was not entirely clear that the use of the 
discount facility would necessarily result in an expansion of exports. 
In this connection, it was noted that the top 20 banks were now up to 
their ceilings under the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. If 
they discounted export paper, they would be in a position to use those 
funds to make domestic loans, which could be a matter of concern from 
the standpoint of monetary policy. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
proposed letter would be rewritten in light of the views expressed and 
brought back 4for futher consideration at tomorrow's meeting. 
Silver coin as reserves. On July 9, 1970, the Board had extended 
until August 10 the time within which comments might be submitted on a 
proposed amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, which would 
revise the definition of "currency and coin" so as to preclude member banks 
from counting as reserves coin held principally for its bullion or numis-
matic value. A request had now been received from Senator Mansfield urging 
a further extension of time until September 10 
In a memorandum dated August 5, 1970, the staff recommended that 
the request be granted. 
V.'U^cI:' iM-r. . . 
Following discussion, an extension of time until September 10 for 
e submission of comments was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 

8/6/70 
-6-
sent to Senator Mansfield is attached as Item No. 5, and a copy of the 
notice published in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 6. 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending. In a memorandum dated 
July 9, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation had recommended 
(1) that section 2A of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending be amended so as to provide for 
current appointments to the Advisory Committee and for staggered terms 
of office; (2) that appointments be made to the Advisory Committee in 
accordance with the foregoing amendment; (3) that Dr. Richard H. Holton 
be reappointed as Chairman of the Advisory Committee; and (4) that each 
year a certificate of appreciation be issued to each of those persons 
V. 
terminating membership on the Advisory Committee. 
Actions on those recommendations had been taken at the meeting on 
July 16, 1970, except for the appointment of 10 new members of the Commit-
tee for two-year terms expiring June 30, 1972. The list of suggestions 
for new members was subsequently amended in a memorandum dated July 28, 
1970. 
After discussion, the following were appointed as members of the 
Advisory Committee for terms expiring June 30, 1972: 
Louis F. Del Duca 
Robert W. Pullen 
Barbara A. Curran 
Valerie Dickerson 
Faith K. Prior 
Peter R. Thompson 
Edwin B. Brooks, Jr. 
Harry R. Valas 
Douglas Allen 
Robert R. Masterson 

2 2 7 8 
8/6/70 
-7-
Nassau branch. A letter to Houston National Bank, Houston, 
Texas, approving its application to establish a branch in Nassau, 
Bahamas, was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 7. 
Officer appointment. The Board approved the appointment of 
Eugene A. Leonard as Assistant Secretary, Office of the Secretary, 
effective August 10, 1970, for the period of approximately one year 
while on loan from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant 
to arrangements agreed upon with that Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2279 
Item No. 1 
8/6/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
Tampa, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of not less 
tftan 80 per cent of the voting shares 
or Bank of Clearwater, Clearwater, 
Florida. 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR ACQUISITION 
OF BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of First Financial Corporation, 
Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
£ e Board's prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 
80 
Per cent of the voting shares of Bank of Clearwater, Clearwater, 
Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking for the Stage pf Florida and requested his views and recom-
mendation, The Deputy Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPPUcation. 

2250 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 2, 1970 (35 Federal Register 8521), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
i 
' v. •• 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 6, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, TAMPA, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
OF BANK OF CLEARWATER, CLEARWATER, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1342(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of not 
l G S S t h a n 8 0 P e r c e n t of the voting shares of Bank of Clearwater, 
Clearwater, Florida. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for the 
S ta t 
e of Florida and requested his views and recommendation. The 
deputy Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
h a t the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
onopoly or xjould be in furtherance of any combtiiati'o^ 
to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
ny Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

-2-
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
ition are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
off 
ect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
in to 
o consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
1 0 largest banking organizations in Florida, all bank holding companies, 
control close to 41 per cent of the total bank deposits in the State.-' 
Applicant, the seventh largest in the State, controls seven banks and 
$334 milli0n of deposits, which represent 2.7 per cent of the State 
ePOoit market. Acquisition of Clearwater Bank would make Applicant 
sixth largest banking organization and would increase its control 
3.5 per cent. Such increase in banking concentration at the State 
level -f o 
n o t regarded by itself as significant, 
^ S ^ e f L 0 ^ ^ 1 3 6 
n 0 t e d , a 1 1 b a n k i n S d a t a a re as of December 31, 
acquisiMn 
r i n s u r e d commercial banks, and reflect holding company 
for vwhich Board approvals have been issued to date. 

2 2 S 3 
-3-
Clearwater Bank's service area, with an estimated population of 
100,000, is located in the central portion of Pinellas County and is 
bounded by Tarpon Springs to the north, Old Tampa Bay to the east, and 
the Gulf of Mexico to the west. On its south side, the service area 
extends just beyond the City of Largo. Clearwater Bank, with approx-
imately $92.0 million of deposits, is the largest of 14 banks in the 
Clearwater banking market and holds over 23 per cent of the deposits 
in the area. The second largest bank, an independent, holds 17 per 
cent of the total deposits there. Two subsidiaries of holding 
companies are now located in Clearwater. Consummation of the pro-
posal herein would give holding companies control of 39.0 per cent 
of deposits in the Clearwater area. 
Clearwater is approximately 20 miles west of Tampa and is 
separated from it by Tampa Bay. A four-lane causeway links the two 
cities. Applicant is the largest banking organization in the Tampa 
market, which is the location of Applicant's lead bank as i;ell as 
two other subsidiary banks. 
Applicant claims that an insignificant amount of Clearwater 
Bank s deposit or loan business originates in the service area of 
Q n y o f Applicant's subsidiaries; and that a similar situation obtains 
x;ith respect to the business of Applicant's subsidiaries that origi-
nates i n Clearwater Bank's service area. However, the Tampa and 
Clearwater markets are neighbors and are part of the Tampa-St. Petersburg 
standard Metropolitan Statistical Area. As the metropolitan area 

- 2 -
continues to grow, which seems likely, Clearwater may be expected to 
become more closely linked financially with the Tampa area. Also, it 
appears that, in the past, loan demand in the Clearwater area has been 
substantially exceeded by available funds; and that Clearwater banks 
have become net exporters of credit. These circumstances suggest that 
Clearwater banks will be in a position to exert a more significant 
competitive influence in the neighboring Tampa market than has been 
exercised heretofore. More importantly, Applicant's dominance in 
the Tampa market makes Applicant a potential de novo entrant into the 
nearby Clearwater market. Entry therein through the acquisition by 
Applicant of a bank other than the largest bank in Clearwater is 
another alternative that would be more compatible with competitive 
considerations and the public interest than the current proposal. 
On the facts in the record, it appears that consummation of 
the proposal herein would foreclose significant potential competition 
between Applicant's system and Clearwater Bank; and would foreclose 
the possibility of alternative proposals for acquisition of 
Clearwater Bank that would be less anticompetitive than the cur-
r e n t Proposal and that might lead to an increase in competition. 
The Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
would have a significantly anticompetitive effect in the relevant local 
area; and that the proposed acquisition would not be in the public 

2285 
-2-
interest, unless such adverse effects are clearly outweighed by 
considerations related to the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served or the banking factors. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
TK 
e record indicates that Clearwater Bank is well managed and in sound 
condition. The prospects of the bank as an independent are favorable. 
Relative to this bank, the banking factors lend no weight toward 
approval of the application. 
In the light of planned capital improvement, the financial 
condition and prospects of Applicant are regarded as adequate. How-
ever, it appears that Applicant faces a shortage of management 
resources for dealing with management problems in certain of the 
banks already in the system. It is desirable that these deficiencies 
receive the full attention of the holding company personnel before 
the holding company system assumes the additional responsibilities 
t h a t further acquisitions would entail. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would have no effect on customers served 
b y ^PPlicant's present subsidiaries. 

/ 
-2-
The banking needs of the Clearuater area appear to be uell 
served by Clearuater Bank and 13 other banks, of which two are sub-
sidiaries of bank holding companies. Applicant states that "all 
services normally provided by commercial banks are available in the 
Bank's service area". 
Proposed benefits offered by Applicant for the Clearuater 
area include expanded data processing services and accommodation of 
larger loans for businesses located there. Houever, evidence of a 
need for larger loans in the area is lacking; rather the area appears 
oe one uith a surplus of funds. And Clearuater Bank is regarded 
as large enough to institute, or to achieve through correspondent 
relationships, the improvements Applicant contemplates. The benefits 
Proposed by Applicant fall short of constituting a compelling con-
sideration favoring approval of the application. The Board finds that 
the anti-competitive effects inherent in the proposal are not out-
weighed by the probable effects of the acquisition in meeting the 
,, . 
I'll | 
.•'•'.,•• 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
i n the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
t h e A c t> it: i s the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 

22 87 
-2-
uould have a significantly adverse effect on competition without 
offsetting benefits under the convenience and needs factors or the 
banking factors. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
proposal would not be in the public interest and that the application 
should be denied. 
August 6, 1970 

' . ^ l r e s ^ ; . -
O O t j Q 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • RS 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 2 
8/6/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
August 6, 1970 
Board of Directors, 
Birst Michigan Bank 
and Trust Company, 
Zeeland, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
Hie Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by First Michigan Bank 
and Trust Company, Zeeland, Michigan, at the Southwest corner 
Pf Baldwin Drive and School Road, Georgetown Township, Ottawa 
County, Michigan, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
In approving this branch, it has been determined 
tiat your bank's management is satisfactory and that establishment 
the branch will serve the convenience and needs of the 
community without creating an undesirable competitive situation. 
This letter is not to be taken as a determination by 
he Board of the legality of the proposed branch site under 
ate law. It is understood that the branch hereby approved 
will not open for business unless the litigation presently 
Pending i n the Kent County Circuit Court is resolved in your 
iavor. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2 2 8 9 
B D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No, 3 
8/6/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
I D THE BOAFiD 
August 6, 1970. 
Security New York State Corporation, 
One East Avenue, 
Rochester, New York. 
14604 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letters of November 13, 1969, January 6, 
and April. 2, 1970, concerning the scope of permissible activities of 
an insurance agency subsidiary acquired pursuant to § 4(c)(5) of the 
Holding Company Act. 
It: is understood that Security New York State Corporation, 
a registered bank holding company, has acquired all the shares of an 
insurance agency located in a town with a population of 5,000 or less, 
in which one of its banking subsidiaries has an office; that the 
agency is not presently located on the premises of the subsidiary bank; 
and that the Corporation intends to expand the operations of the agency 
by soliciting insurance throughout the region served by its subsidiary 
hanks. 
Section 4 of the Act generally prohibits a bank holding 
company from acquiring voting shares of any nonbanking company. However, 
§ 4(c)(5) exempts from that prohibition "shares which are of the kinds 
and amounts eligible for investment by national banking associations 
under the provisions of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes". 
The eleventh paragraph of § 13 of the Federal Reserve Act 
authorizes a national bank located in a town with a population not 
exceeding 5,000 to act as a general insurance agent. A national bank 
located in such a town may furnish such insurance services either 
directly, or through a wholly-owned operations subsidiary - that is 
a n organization designed to serve, in effect, as a separately incorporated 
department of the bank, performing, at locations at which the bank is 
authorized to engage in business, functions that the bank is empowered 
t o perform directly. 
(Published Interpretations 11 4215.) 

ZZ'JO 
Security New York 
State Corporation 
- 2 -
Under § 4(c)(5), the purchase of stock by a holding company 
is subject to the same restrictions as are applicable to the purchase 
of stock by a national bank (see Published. Interpretations % 7326). 
Accordingly, under § 4(c)(5), a holding company, without Board approval, 
may acquire all the shares of an agency to be operated in towns with 
a population of 5,000 or less, if a subsidiary has banking offices in 
such towns. 
It is not necessary that the insurance agency be located on 
the premises of the bank, as long as it is located within the town. 
1 ie aforementioned operations subsidiary ruling requires that the 
subsidiary operate "at locations at which the bank is authorized to 
engage in business." A national bank may perform off premises those 
activities which do not constitute branching within the meaning of 
§5155 of the Revised Statutes. Since insurance activities do not 
"appear to constitute "branching", the sole restriction on the location 
offices of the agency is that they must be located in towns with a 
Population of 5,000 or under in which the bank has offices. 
The Board has concluded, however, that § 13, paragraph 11 
tIle Federal Reserve Act was intended to authorize a national bank 
c°nduct only a local insurance agency business, to serve generally 
v. e s a m e respective areas as those served by banking offices located 
in toWng meeting the population standard of § 13. Accordingly, an 
agency acquired by a bank holding company pursuant to § 4(c)(5) is 
sub 
t 
ject to the same restrictions regarding the geographic scope of 
on 
les 
> 
- 
o 
o 
o 
r 
— 
i 
operations. Absent such restrictions, an insurance agency may 
"ot be acquired by a bank holding company except upon a determination 
y the Board, pursuant to § 4(c)(8) of the Act that all of the activit.i 
_ sucl1 agency are so closely related to the business of banking, or 
managing or controlling banks, as to be a proper incident thereto, 
n 
as to make it unnecessary for the prohibition of the Act to apply 
111 ° r d e r to carry out its purposes. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
. 
) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Z2<)± 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 4 
8/6/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
• C A R O 
August 6, 1970 
First National City Bank 
(International), 
44 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
Gentlemen: 
94104 
As requested in your letters of June 3, and July 3, 1970, 
the Board of Governors grants approval for your Corporation to 
issue and have outstanding, in accordance with Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.4 of Regulation K, promissory 
n°tes payable to the Export-Import Bank of the United States with 
maturities in excess of one year up to a total of $30,000,000. 
Your letter of July 3, 1970, also requested authorization 
to exceed the limitations of Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K and 
to have /outstanding loans to individual borrowers of up to $5,000,000 
thin an overall limitation of $30,000,000. Exemptions from the 
card s rules and regulations are granted only in exceptional cir-
cumstances. Absent such circumstances, the Board has concluded 
that this request should not be granted. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

V 
•J5 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 0. C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
Item No. 5 
8/6/70 
O F F I C E OF THE V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 6, 1970. 
The Honorable Mike Mansfield, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
» 
Dear Senator Mansfield: 
In Chairman Burns' absence, I am replying to your 
letter of July 31 regarding the Board's proposed amendment to 
Regulation D, which would prevent member banks from counting 
as part of their required reserves silver coin held for its 
bullion or numismatic value. 
The Board this morning agreed to extend the time for 
receipt of comments on this proposed amendment from August 10 
to September 10. We appreciate your comments, and your views 
will be given careful consideration by the Board in determining 
what action to take with regard to this proposal. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

Item No. 6 
8/6/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
[Regulation D] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Counting Silver Coin as Reserves; 
Extension of Time 
Notice of proposed rule making regarding an amendment to 
§ 204.1(3) 
(Regulation D) was published in the Federal Register on 
June 9, 1970 (35 F.R. 8892). The purpose of the proposed amendment 
was to exclude from the scope of the present definition of "currency 
and coin" any coin that is being held principally for its bullion 
value (or numismatic value). Under the new definition such coin 
could no longer be counted as reserves by member banks. Comments on 
the proposal were to have been received not later than July 13, 1970. 
On the basis of the response to the June 9 publication, the 
Board determined appropriate an extension of time until August 10, 1970, 
within which interested persons might further submit relevant data, 
views, or arguments regarding the proposal. Further comments received 
have satisfied the Board that the public interest would be served by 
again extending the time within which comments on this proposal may 
he submitted. Accordingly, the Board has extended until September 10, 
1970, the period within which comments, views, or recommendations 
regarding the proposal will be received. 

- 2 - 
• 
2
2
9
4 
This notice is published pursuant to section 553(b) of 
title 5, United States Code, and § 262.2(a) of the rules of procedure 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 262.2(a)). 
All material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 
20551. Such material will be made available for inspection and 
i'-pr 
copying upon request, except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's 
Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
• By order of the Board of Governors, August 6, 1970. 
.. . 
. ' " 
v» . . - ' 7 ; 
(SEAL) 
(signed) 
Kenneth A. 
Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

^ - ( J D 
Si 
'•f^LRfs^ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2C551 
Item No. 7 
8/6/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE DOARD 
August 6, 1970 
Houston National Bank, 
1010 Milam Street, 
Houston, Texas. 
77001 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
x ts permission to Houston National Bank,tHouston, Texas, pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish 
a branch at Norfolk House, Frederick Street and Trinity Place, Nassau, 
ahamas, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
wiil be used for developing new international business and not as a 
weans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
t is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
™ay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
n V x e w of the unusual character of this operation, the foregoing 
Permission is granted subject to continuing special observation and 
review by the Board and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified. 
1G foregoing permission is also granted on the condition that ade-
quate information covering the branch's operations will be maintained 
your head office and will be available to the Board and its ac-
credited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of 
ny modification in the branch's methods of operation, including 
anges in any contract under which services are supplied to the 
branch. 
A 
b 
. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
s h a n G S S ° n ° r b e f o r e SePtember 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
win 
b e d e e m e d t o l i a v e b e e n abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
iJ- automatically terminate on that date. 
R e 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
BoaG1iVe B a n k ° f D a l l a s > w h e n t he branch is opened for business. The 
tic^ ^ h o u l d a l s o b e promptly informed of any future change in loca-
o f the branch in Nassau. 

2 2 9 6 
Houston National Bank 
-2-
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
°f the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
xs to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
nitecl States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite} necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
'unds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capi-
al, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
B°r p^ rP° s e s 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
card s concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
°n the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the 
" frstanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
St
G 1 a n c e v i l 1 
placed on resources obtained outside the United 
Wi'neS* 
A c c o r d i n S 1 y J it is understood that any investment required 
Jill be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
-recit: restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
^ending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
1 e r a tion is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
v 
