Minutes for March 21, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1 0 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 21, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Cloth, Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Pounds tone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Waller, Supervisory Accountant, Office of 
the Controller 
T7—^ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1078 
3/21/67 
-17- 
. 
Request regarding Board expenditures (Item No. 1). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Kakalec dated March 17, 1967, 
submitting a draft of reply to a letter received under date of March 3, 
1967, from Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Cur-
rency requesting details of certain expenditures included in the Board's 
Statement of Assessments and Expenditures for the year ended December 31, 
1966. 
Transmittal of a response giving the requested information was 
authorized, in the form attached to these minutes as Item No. 1. 
Messrs. Kakalec and Waller then withdrew from the meeting. 
Sale of bank money orders off premises (Item No. 2). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated March 14, 
l 9 6?, reporting that on February 9, 1967, Mr. Paul L. Spooner, Jr., a 
lawyer from Minneapolis, had visited the Board's offices to discuss the 
Sale. of bank money orders off premises. He was accompanied by Mr. Moore, 
Resident of Travelers Express Co., Inc., a subsidiary of Greyhound 
Corporation. Mr. Spooner had submitted a petition addressed to the 
^°ard and to the Comptroller of the Currency requesting modification 
their published rulings that permitted member banks to engage in the 
i 
Practice, and to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation requesting 
issuance of a formal ruling forbidding State nonmember insured banks to 
d° so. 
Mr. Hooff noted that Mr. Spooner had contended the sale of money 
° r d e r s ^ s equivalent to the issuance of checks and drafts, was a regular 

1079 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
banking service, and, as such, could only be performed at the head 
office or legally established branch of the bank. This contention was 
premised upon the argument that the definition of "branch" contained 
in section 5155 of the Revised Statutes, applicable to national and 
member State banks, which refers to any office "at which deposits are 
received, or checks paid, or money lent" does not exclude an office 
Performing other banking functions even though it conducts none of the 
foregoing business. 
To support such conclusion, Mr. Spooner cited the 
collateral statutory provision authorizing banks to operate seasonal 
agencies in resort communities limited to "receiving and paying out 
deposits, issuing and cashing checks and drafts, and doing business 
incident thereto," and argued that reference to the function of issuing 
checks and drafts showed conclusively that an office offering this ser-
V lce must be considered a branch. 
Mr. Hooff recalled that a ruling by the Board in 1965 turned on 
conclusion that issuance of a bank's money orders by an authorized 
agent does not involve the receipt of deposits at a "branch place of 
business" and, accordingly, the Board's permission to establish a branch 
W as not required as a prior condition to the conduct of such business. 
added that the matter had been carefully considered by the Legal 
division before recommending the conclusion indicated, and recent dis-
C u s s i 0 n of the question with staff at the Federal Deposit Insurance 
CorPoration and the Comptroller's Office had elicited the information 

1080 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
that the respective agencies did not intend to respond affirmatively to 
Mr. Spooner's petition. 
In discussion, Governor Robertson said he had no feeling that 
the Board should be changing its position. However, he did not find 
anything in the current memorandum that could be used as a basis for 
justifying that position. He then asked Mr. Hooff to review the reason-
xng that had led to the conclusion reached by the Board in 1965. 
Mr. Hooff reviewed that reasoning in some detail and pointed 
0 ut that the question admittedly was debatable. 
Governor Robertson inquired of Mr. Hackley whether the latter 
would be prepared to defend the Board's position if the matter should 
8° to court. 
Mr. Hackley replied that the Legal Division would make the best 
defense it could, primarily on the ground that even if a deposit was 
actually received through the sale of money orders off premises, it was 
n°t received at a "branch place of business." He agreed with Mr. Hooff 
that the question was debatable. 
Governor Robertson then inquired if everyone agreed that the 
B°ard should stand firm in writing on its present position, and there 
W a s no indication to the contrary. He asked whether any reason was 
S e en to wait for the other bank supervisory agencies, who apparently 
h a d indicated that they were not going to take any action, to which he 
a d d e d that he could see no reason to wait. Other members of the Board 
agreed. 

1081 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the proposed letter 
to Mr. Spooner reaffirming the Board's 1965 ruling. A copy is attached 
to these minutes as Item No. 2. 
Governor Daane joined the meeting at this point and Messrs. 
Hooff and Cloth withdrew. 
Bill to authorize Federal mutual savings banks (Item No. 3). 
Under date of February 17, 1967, the Bureau of the Budget requested the 
Board's views on a bill drafted by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
"to authorize the establishment of Federal mutual savings banks." A 
Memorandum from the Legal Division dated March 16 pointed out that the 
draft bill was similar to previous proposals on the subject that had 
been considered by the Board at times in the past. On those occasions 
the Board had indicated essentially that it had no objection in prin-
ciple to legislation that would authorize Federal charters for mutual 
Savings banks. A draft of reply to the Budget Bureau was submitted 
^ t h the memorandum, and a revised draft had since been distributed. 
Governor Robertson noted that Governor Brimmer felt that the 
B°ard should shift from a position of "no objection in principle" to a 
definite and strong position in favor of Federal charters for mutual 
Savings banks. While Governor Brimmer did not disagree with the specific 
p°ints i n the pr0posed letter that were designed to protect commercial 
banks f r o m preferential treatment for mutual savings banks, it was his 
b a s i c Position that the Board should support the proposal for Federal 
charters i n principle. 

1082 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
Governor Maisel, whose views were similar to those of Governor 
Brimmer, read proposed alternative language for portions of the reply 
to the Budget Bureau that reflected his position. 
Governor Daane expressed the opinion that enactment of the 
Proposal would amount to inviting a further proliferation of banking 
systems that in time would weaken central banking in this country. He 
agreed that it was difficult to take a position of opposing in principle 
authority for mutual savings banks to obtain Federal charters. 
However, 
if such authority were granted, he felt that the chartering and super-
visory power should be lodged in the Federal Reserve and that the mutual 
Savings banks should be subjected to reserve and other requirements 
c°niparable to those imposed upon member commercial banks. This, he 
Said, was a position that he had reached after much thought and study 
° V e r a period of time going back to his service with the Treasury and 
his participation in the work of the Committee on Financial Institutions. 
l n his opinion the authorization of Federal charters for mutual savings 
banks, as currently proposed, would invite trouble by a further prolif-
eration of banking institutions of disparate status, thus giving rise 
t o additional competitive problems and inequities. Another large segment 
o f the banking system would be outside the purview of the central bank. 
l n summary, while he would interpose no objection in principle, he would 
P 0 l nt out the desirability of equity in status between commercial and 
m U t u a l savings banks and possibly cite the Federal Reserve as the appro-
P r i a te chartering and regulatory authority if Federal mutual savings 

1083 
3/21/67 
-7-
banks should be authorized. He did not believe, however, that a need 
bad been demonstrated for such institutions. 
Governor Mitchell said that he saw a need to round out the 
operations of the mutual savings banks, whose specialization had led 
to an unbalanced position. There were several ways of approaching 
the problem, of which one would be to move toward broadening their 
lending powers somewhat, and he viewed the proposal to authorize Fed-
eral charters as a modest step in the right direction. He would be 
reluctant to go further at this time than the terms of the draft letter, 
but his objection did not go to the point of a lessening of monetary 
control. 
Mr. Partee expressed the view that the principal result of the 
Proposed legislation would be a conversion of savings and loan associa-
tions to mutual savings banks. The Board's staff, he said, had taken 
^ e position in discussions over the past several years that such con-
Versions would be of benefit to the economy. The associations would 
achieve greater investment latitude, and improved regulatory control 
° V er managerial operations would be possible. 
Governor Daane suggested that over a period of time the powers 
o f the mutual savings banks were likely to be broadened without sub-
J e c ting such institutions to anything like the same reserve requirements 
a s member banks, thus increasing the present inequity in terms of a 
S h a U n g o f t h e b u r d e n o f m o n e t a r y policy. As Mr. Partee had said, on 

1084 
3/21/67 
-17- 
. 
the surface the legislative proposal had considerable appeal. 
However, 
it involved judgments that were not provable. 
There followed discussion of the reserves that it would be 
necessary for Federal mutual savings banks to maintain under the pro-
visions of the current proposal, and Governor Maisel suggested language 
for inclusion in the proposed letter on that point. He said that he 
agreed basically with the staff view, as reported by Mr. Partee. 
In 
fact, he would be willing to go further and say that the general record 
°f mutual savings banks as thrift institutions was good. He thought 
there was a demonstrated correlation between mutual savings bank areas, 
a high rate of thrift deposits, and low interest rates. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that the mutual savings banks had 
°ffered competition to the commercial banks in the areas where they 
°Perated, and vice versa. 
In his opinion the availability of Federal 
charters would enhance the degree of competition and give the mutual 
Savings banks more stability. 
Mr. Fisher mentioned that a possible alternative to broadening 
6 powers of the mutual savings banks would be to change the statutes 
aPplicable to savings and loan associations. 
Governor Daane indicated that that would be his preference, if 
accompanied by a strengthening of standards applicable to the savings 
^ nd i 
toans. He continued to feel that if Federal charters were made 
a v a U a b l e to mutual savings banks, such banks should be chartered and 
SuPervised by the Board. 

1085 
3/21/67 
-9-
Governor Shepardson indicated that his views were similar to 
those of Governor Daane. He did not feel that the Board should go 
beyond the position suggested in the draft letter. It seemed to him 
that if the Board strongly endorsed the Federal chartering of mutual 
savings banks--which was the way he read the language proposed by 
Governor Maisel--that position should be accompanied by an equally 
strong recommendation for comparability of regulatory controls over 
commercial banks and mutual savings banks. Otherwise, there would be 
a further proliferation of financial institutions operating under dif-
ferent supervisory standards. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that efforts should be 
directed toward equalizing the powers of thrift institutions and the 
requirements under which they operated. 
It should be made easy, rather 
than difficult, for mutual savings banks to convert into commercial 
banks. He then suggested changes in the proposed letter designed gen-
erally to make the case for comparability of requirements if the privi-
lege of a dual banking system was extended to the mutual savings banks. 
Governors Daane and Mitchell indicated that changes along the 
lines suggested by Governor Robertson would be agreeable to them. 
It was noted that the Bureau of the Budget was pressing for an 
early reply to its request for comments on the draft bill. Accordingly, 
lt: was understood that the proposed reply to the Bureau would be 
redrafted in light of the discussion at this meeting and sent after 
being cleared with the available members of the Board this afternoon. 

1086 
3/21/67 
-io-
Secretary's Note: Attached as Item No. 3 
is a copy of the letter that was sent to 
the Bureau of the Budget following clear-
ance of a revised draft with the available 
members of the Board. Governor Maisel 
dissented from the sending of the letter 
because he did not feel that it went far 
enough toward incorporating views such as 
he favored expressing on the draft bill. 
Messrs. Holland, Koch, Partee, Fisher, and Sanders then with-
drew from the meeting. 
Application of Columbia Bank and Trust Company. 
In a distrib-
uted memorandum dated March 9, 1967, the Division of Examinations 
recommended approval of an application by a proposed new bank, Columbia 
Bank and Trust Company of Columbia, Maryland, for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System, noting that the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation viewed the application 
favorably. 
The bank would be owned by a holding company formed by two 
large Maryland nonmember banks--Equitable Trust Company (Baltimore) and 
Suburban Trust Company (Hyattsville). 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Hackley 
dated March 16, 1967, stating that the case presented a novel issue in 
^ a t all the stock of Columbia Bank would be owned by a holding company 
aud the latter's stock would, in turn, be owned in equal amounts by two 
large nonmember banks. This situation gave rise to two legal questions: 
(1) would the proposed transaction involve any violation of law; and 
(2) could the Board properly disapprove the application on the ground 
tl:1at the bank would be indirectly owned by two nonmember banks. 

12 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
With respect to the first of these questions, the memorandum 
observed that nonmember banks in Maryland are not prohibited from 
Purchasing corporate stock, including the indirect purchase of stock 
of another bank. Also, the Bank Holding Company Act was not applicable 
to the proposal because the holding company involved would own the 
stock of only one bank. On the other hand, section 7 of the Clayton 
Act prohibits a corporation engaged in commerce from acquiring, directly 
indirectly, the stock of another corporation if the effect of the 
acquisition may be substantially to lessen competition. While the two 
nonmember banks involved might not now be in substantial competition 
with each other, it could be argued that their respective service areas 
were such that they could reasonably be expected to overlap eventually, 
Particularly in the town where the proposed new member bank would be 
located. Thus, absent the transaction here proposed, the two nonmember 
banks would undoubtedly come into competition in that area. 
The Legal Division was of the view that, on balance, there was 
n ° clear-cut violation of law involved in the proposed transaction, and 
therefore denial of the application for membership would have to rest 
° n some other ground. 
Denial simply on the ground that nonmember banks 
should not be permitted to purchase, directly or indirectly, the stock 
another bank might not be regarded as reasonable by the courts, there 
being nothing in Federal or State law to prohibit the nonmember banks 
here involved from purchasing the stock of other banks. Thus, in order 

1088 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
to sustain denial, it seemed necessary to demonstrate that the acquisi-
tion by the nonmember banks of the stock of a member bank would have 
effects contrary to the public interest. 
The memorandum advanced two possible lines of reasoning that 
appeared to serve this purpose: 
"In acting upon a bank's application for membership, the 
Board is required to consider 'the general character of its 
management'. 
Usually, this phrase is regarded as referring 
to the ability and integrity of the directors and officers of 
a bank. Conceivably, the phrase might be more broadly inter-
preted as including consideration of the nature of the bank's 
management. 
In the present case, the member bank would be 
managed by directors indirectly selected by the two nonmember 
banks. 
The Board might conclude that management of this kind 
is not consistent with the purposes and intent of the Federal 
Reserve Act and not in the public interest. 
"A final ground for denial may be suggested. 
Even though 
the proposed transaction is not regarded as a violation of the 
antitrust laws, the Board might conclude in its judgment that, 
for the reasons heretofore indicated, the transaction would 
eliminate potential competition between Equitable and Suburban, 
especially in the light of the present proximity of their ser-
vice areas and the prospect of the growth of the town of Colum-
bia to a city of more than 100,000." 
In discussion, Governor Robertson expressed the view that the 
B°ard should never give its blessing to a transaction whereby two banks 
w°uld acquire another bank in order to divide up the business in a par-
ticular community. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that perhaps someone 
should talk with the developers of the town of Columbia along those 
lines. Governor Robertson agreed that if they were put on notice that 
^-he Board proposed to deny the membership application because of anti-
competitive aspects, they might want to reconsider the proposal. 
In 

1089 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
this connection, it was pointed out that if the Board denied the member-
ship application its letter presumably would be transmitted to the 
applicant for membership rather than to the developers of Columbia. 
Governor Maisel suggested that, as a matter of policy, the 
Board might take the position that no banks of such size as Suburban 
Trust Company and Equitable Trust Company should be nonmembers of the 
Federal Reserve System, but Governor Mitchell expressed doubt that the 
application could appropriately be turned down on that ground. He pro-
Posed that the staff draft a letter to the applicant turning down the 
application. 
In further regard to the point raised by Governor Maisel, Mr. 
Hackley said he had some question whether the fact that two nonmember 
banks would derive indirectly, through the proposed arrangement, certain 
benefits of System membership would provide a sound basis for turning 
down the application. It seemed to him the most sustainable ground for 
denial would be that in view of the trend of population growth between 
Washington and Baltimore, the proposal would result in a potential 
lessening of competition between two large nonmember banks. Mr. Hexter 
noted that, since the law permits the granting of deposit insurance to 
n°nmember banks of any size, an indication by the Board that all banks 
°f a certain size should be members of the Federal Reserve System would 
amount to questioning the appropriateness of the entire banking structure 
as legally constituted. Mr. Hackley pointed out that if the Board adopted 

1090 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
such a position it might logically turn down bank holding company 
applications on the same basis. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the Board would be on safer 
ground if it turned down the present application on the basis of the 
competitive factor. 
Governor Shepardson likewise agreed that the strongest basis 
for denial would be the competitive factor. However, if there were 
any other facets that could appropriately be included in the letter of 
denial, he would like to see those explored. 
Mr. Hackley pointed out that the two nonmember banks would 
indirectly select the management of the applicant bank. The Board 
might feel, as a matter of policy, that this was inconsistent with the 
Purposes of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the staff proceed with 
the drafting of a letter of denial that could be sent unless questions 
ar°se that merited further Board consideration. 
Mr. Hackley noted that it had sometimes been the practice of 
the Board, when it proposed to take an action contrary to the recommen-
dation of the Federal Reserve Bank concerned, to discuss the matter 
Wlth the Reserve Bank before announcing the action. He understood that 
in th is case the Richmond Reserve Bank had considered the application 
carefully before making its recommendation. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the matter should be discussed 
W l th the Reserve Bank so that it was fully informed. 

1091 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
Mr. Hackley then noted that it was customary to make public the 
Board's actions on applications of this kind and that the making public 
of a denial of this application could be misconstrued. He asked whether 
it would seem desirable for the applicant to be informed of the Board's 
views so that it could withdraw the membership application if it so 
desired. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that Governor Maisel be requested 
to have a discussion with the principal developer of the town of 
Columbia, who had much at stake in this matter, perhaps more than the 
two banks interested in the application. 
It was agreed that Governor Maisel would undertake to arrange 
such a discussion, the conversation to be on the basis that the Board 
W as inclined to deny the membership application unless it was withdrawn. 
It was also understood that the Board's staff would inform the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond of the Board's views and of the prospective 
action on the application, with the understanding that the Reserve Bank 
c°uld then enter into discussion with the applicant if desired. 
Messrs. Hexter and O'Connell then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Virgin Islands National Bank. At its meetings on 
January 18 and January 26, 1967, the Board had considered an application 
by 
the Virgin Islands National Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. Thomas, Virgin 
islands (an "agreement" corporation wholly owned by a Philadelphia member 
^ank), for permission to establish a branch in the Hato Rey section of 

1092 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
San Juan, Puerto Rico. The Board on January 26 had concluded that the 
Secretary of the Treasury of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico should be 
invited to elaborate on the reasons for his objection to the establish-
ment of the proposed branch, and that the applicant bank should also be 
invited to submit such additional information as it thought helpful to 
the Board's consideration of the application. 
In a memorandum dated March 14, 1967, the Division of Examina-
tions commented on replies that had been received from both the Common-
wealth Treasury Secretary and the applicant. 
The information from the 
Secretary of the Treasury did not add materially to the substance of 
his original objection. 
The main point of the applicant's letter was 
that banks in Puerto Rico had been enjoying exceptionally rapid growth 
and that a branch of Virgin Islands National Bank could not adversely 
affect the competitive position of neighboring banking offices or the 
over-all position of existing banks. 
The memorandum also reported that Vice President Piderit of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York had had occasion to discuss the circum-
stances of the application with the President of the Puerto Rican Bankers 
Association, who maintained that the Association was unanimous in its 
opposition to the proposed branch, one reason being that national banks 
W ere exempt from the "patente" (a form of franchise tax) and consequently 
had a competitive advantage over locally chartered banks. The memorandum 
Pointed out also that the Comptroller of the Currency had denied two 

1093 
» 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
applications to establish national banks in Puerto Rico, the Secretary 
of the Treasury of Puerto Rico having opposed both. 
It was the Division's suggestion that it might tfe worth while 
to send a team of two men on a short visit to Puerto Rico. One man 
would assess the competitive situation in the banking system as a whole 
and in the area of the proposed branch, while the other would appraise 
the attitudes of the bankers and government authorities and convey the 
interests and concerns of the Board. 
Mr. Leavitt stated, in supplementation of the memorandum, that 
he had conferred with an examining official of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation about the application. The view expressed to 
him was that the Hato Rey section of San Juan was adequately served by 
existing banking offices. It was mentioned also that a liquidity problem 
existed in the case of the Virgin Islands National Bank. It was said 
that the Corporation and the Treasury of Puerto Rico had built up a 
close working relationship over a period of years. If the Treasury 
Secretary was concerned about some problem relating to a Puerto Rican 
hank, he discussed the matter with the Corporation and the two agencies 
worked in harmony to effect whatever corrections were deemed desirable. 
When the Corporation had reservations about a particular banking situa-
tion, it found the Treasury most cooperative in attempting to bring about 
improvement. The Treasury Secretary evidently felt that the entrance of 
a national bank into the area might jeopardize this cooperative effort, 
and the Corporation had some reservations along the same line. 

1094 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
Governor Mitchell expressed doubt that the Puerto Ricans were 
getting the benefit of as much competition as might be desirable. He 
had an uncomfortable feeling that the local authorities were operating 
on a restrictive basis and that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion was cooperating. However, that was not entirely clear. In summary, 
he did not think that the record was adequate, and he felt that a further 
investigation would be advisable for the purpose of building a more com-
plete record on the basis of which the Board could take action. 
Governor Daane agreed with the view that further investigation 
would enable the Board to make a better-informed judgment. 
Governor Robertson then said that if the Board sent someone to 
Puerto Rico to talk with the Secretary of the Treasury and other offi-
cials, those officials might simply emphasize that they did not want 
the Virgin Islands National Bank to enter Puerto Rico. They might cite 
the fact that the applicant's parent bank had attempted to enter Puerto 
Rico through the purchase of banking institutions and had been turned 
down. Nevertheless, the Board might still conclude that there was room 
for more competition and that the amount of business taken by the Virgin 
Islands National Bank would not be unduly great. If favorable action 
was then taken over the objection of the Commonwealth authorities, there 
Would be a schism. 
Governor Maisel pointed out that the amount of banking business 
and bank deposits in Puerto Rico seemed to be growing at quite a rapid 

1095 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
rate, which raised the question whether more banks were needed and what 
the effect would be of establishing them. The Board had not examined 
the over-all banking situation in Puerto Rico and did not have full 
information on what had actually happened in Puerto Rico during the 
period of rapid growth. There was the question whether the entrance 
°f the new bank would really endanger the current banking structure. 
Governor Daane again expressed the view that the Board would be 
in a better position if its representatives took a close look at the 
banking situation in Puerto Rico. 
Governor Mitchell commented that a representative of the Banking 
Markets Section might well find the area in question overbanked. There 
appeared to be a lot of banking offices in a relatively small area. How-
ever, the information was not complete, and perhaps there were not enough 
banks. Discussion with the local authorities might be difficult, but 
Perhaps something could be learned through a visit to the Commonwealth. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the Board should take 
a further look before acting on the current application, and Governor 
Shepardson said he thought a first-hand investigation would be justified, 
if there was a reasonable way of conducting it, in order that the Board 
might have complete information. 
Accordingly, it was understood that arrangements would be made 
selected members of the Board's staff to visit Puerto Rico and 
report their findings to the Board before action was taken on the appli-
cation of Virgin Islands National Bank. 

1096 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (copy attached 
a s Item No. 4) approving the appointment of Rodney E. Reid as assistant 
examiner. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointments 
Richard D. Erb as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $13,201 (or $12,056 if his Ph.D. 
requirements were not yet completed), effective the date of entrance 
uPon duty, it being understood that Mr. Erb would serve as special 
assistant to Governor Maisel. 
(It was understood that the Board would 
Pay the cost of moving his household effects from Stanford, California, 
to Washington, D. C., along with transportation for Mr. Erb and his 
wife. 
it was further understood that Mr. Erb would be given the bene-
fit of any general pay increase that might occur before the date of his 
entrance upon duty.) 
Glenn L. Cummins as Applications Analyst, Division of Data Process-
lr*g, with basic annual salary at the rate of $15,106, effective the date 
entrance upon duty. 
John Phillip Hill as Accountant Analyst, Division of Examinations, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $14,665, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
•Salary increases 
Abraham Rose, Operator (Duplicating Devices), Division of Adminis-
trative Services, from $5,408 to $5,699 per annum, effective March 26, 
1%7. 
Terracita Stoney, Clerk-Typist, Division of Data Processing, from 
$3,925 to $4,269 per annum, effective April 9, 1967. 
TranSfer 
Karen Y. Hodges, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Division 
°f Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in the Divi-
Slon of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual salary 
a t the rate of $4,557, effective March 26, 1967. 

1097 
3/21/67 
-17- . 
Acceptance of resignation 
Allen E. Simmons, Mail Clerk, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business March 24, 1967. 
i 

1098 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. I 
3/21/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
March 21, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As requested in your letter of March 3, 1967, there 
is enclosed a listing of details behind certain expenditures 
included in the Board's Statement of Assessments and Expen-
ditures for the year ended December 31, 1966. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

1 too 
CONSUMER FINANCES SURVEYS 
£45 325 
Tabulation of Retail Credit Data-Bureau of Census 
$5 373 
(Contract No. FR 2118) 
""""" 
Bureau collected, tabulated and reviewed the monthly 
data on collections, and sale or transfer of customer 
credit accounts by department stores and their sales 
finance subsidiaries. 
($10,000"advanced in 1966, 
refund of $4,627 in same year - net cost $5,373.) 
Terminated July 1, 1966 with the initiation of 
Contract No. FR 2128. 
•Collection of Retail Credit Data-Bureau of Census 
$43,000 
(Contract No. FR 2128) 
Bureau developed monthly tabulations on the collec-
lons and sales or transfer of customer credit accounts 
V stores and their sales finance subsidiaries in the 
general merchandise, apparel, and furniture and 
aPPliance groups. Initial cost of developing programs 
^as $10,000 and cost of providing data on a monthly 
asis beginning July 1, 1966 for 12 months was $33,000. 
uis supplanted general work done previously at the 
Reserve Banks and the Board. 
fetail Credit Statistics-Bureau of Census 
($3,048) 
(Contract No. FR 2072) 
Refund of unexpended balance of a $6,000 advance made 
n 1965. Bureau conducted a study to determine the 
^easibility of obtaining data on the amounts collected 
a ch month by retail stores on credit accounts. 
^
S
M MARKETS AND OTHER ECONOMIC SURVEYS 
_ 
$118,172 
Banking Markets 
Xh 
\ 
* Principal purpose of the contracts was to develop 
t n * ^ t e c h n i (l u e s suitable for use in merger and hold-
6 company cases where additional data are needed on 
c
 e geographic boundaries of market areas and on the 
provenience and needs aspects. In addition, the 
th n t r a C t S c o n t i n u e d t h e Board's research program on 
6 demand for bank services. 
-1-

1 t o o 
Survey of Business and Households-National Analysts, 
$29,800 
Inc., Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Contractor furnished all personnel, facilities, 
materials and equipment necessary to conduct a survey 
of attitude of business firms and households in 
Hagerstown, Maryland, about their use of and satis-
faction with bank services. This included prepara-
tion of study plan, focus group interviews, develop-
ment of all measurement instruments and sampling; 
interviewing businessmen and households; editing 
questionnaires, coding, punching, verifying, 
tabulating and analysis of data. 
|tudy of Survey Research Techniques to Evaluate the 
$28,500 
Ranking Convenience and Needs of a Community 
jMegiden, Conn.)-Crosley S-D Surveys, Inc., New York, 
Purpose of the study was to develop effective and 
efficient survey research techniques to evaluate 
anking conveniences and needs to residents and 
usiness establishments in a community. 
Other Surveys 
I m a g e s Between Monetary Policy and Aggregate Demand - $40,063 
-°£ial Science Research Council, New York, N. Y. 
The Board entered into a contract in 1966 with SSRC for 
research project on the linkages between monetary 
Policy and aggregate demand. Project is to take two 
years and was undertaken by a research team headed by 
rof. Franco Modigliani of M.I.T. and Prof. Albert Ando 
t University of Pennsylvania. 
in Monetary Economics-Social Science Research 
$19,809 
> 
Th ci 
e SSRC collaborated with the Board in bringing about 
Preparation of research papers on the impact of \ 
l96Atary p o l i c y - 
T h i s Project was first initiated in 
and continued during 1965 and 1966. The SSRC 
ranges for small research studies and conferences. 
Papers resulting from these conferences are sub-
of° ud t 0 d i s c u s s i o n by other economists and members 
_ 
cne Board' s staff and when completed are made 
v aHable to the Board. 
-1-

1101 
LEGAL, CONSULTANT AND AUDIT FEES 
$66,516 
Seminars with Academic Consultants^ 
$7,687 
The Board met three times in 1966 with leading academic 
economists. The purpose of the meetings was to pro-
vide the Board with information and counsel from the 
economists, including an understanding and appreciation 
°f what economists are currently thinking; to provide 
the academic economists with a better understanding and 
appreciation of the problems facing the Board and what 
the Board is doing about these problems; to help develop 
closer understanding and working contacts between the 
academic economists and the Board*s economics staff. 
Consultant Committee on. Prices and Price Measurement 
$3>600 
A Committee was established in 1965 to study prices 
and price measurement. The Board authorized the com-
mittee to commission a series of contributing papers 
°n the concepts of prices relevant to monetary policy 
and on the analysis and measurement of prices, such 
papers to be undertaken by recognized scholars. 
Seminar on Discount Policy and Related Matters 
$5,032 
Several meetings were held in 1966 in order to obtain 
the academic view on discount policy and related 
matters. 
jinking Markets 
$1,785 
^he Banking Markets Section of the Research and 
Statistics Division secured the independent advice 
and consultation of outside consultants in connection 
with surveys of households and surveys of business 
customers. 
Consumer Credit 
$5,657 
Two consultants assisted and advised in the consumer 
finances survey area. 
\ 
Economic Editing 
$1,300 
^ consultant was employed to assist in the editing 
°f several manuscripts. 
-3-

1102 
business Conditions 
$ 240 
A consultant was employed to advise and assist the 
Business Conditions Section in matters pertaining to 
Production indexes. 
International Finance 
$12,373 
A former staff member was retained on a contractual 
basis after his retirement because of his special 
ability in the field of foreign exchange operations 
and international finance in general. 
feta Processing 
$4,800 
Consultant services were used to investigate the pos-
sibilit ies of instant "debit-credit" for checks flowing 
through the Federal Reserve System. 
•Slaphie Arts 
$2,250 
A consultant was retained to assist the Board in 
developing more effective techniques in the area 
graphic arts with emphasis on increased utiliza-
tion of new equipment and advanced procedures in 
chart show presentations. Several consultants 
assisted in a Systemwide conference on graphics. 
£gnsulting Architect 
$1,986 
Ihe Board employs a consulting architect to assist 
l n the review of building proposals submitted to 
fche Board by the Federal Reserve Banks. 
i^Sal 
$1,495 
^ former staff attorney was retained after his 
Retirement to assist in drafting proposed 
egislation and implementing regulation. 
faring Examiners 
• 
$2,611 
hearing examiners were loaned to the Board by 
°ther agencies to conduct hearings in connection 
with Bank Holding Company cases. 
-3-

1103 
Board's Physician 
$ 200 
Retainer paid to Board's physician for consultation 
as required during the year. 
i 
:. 
' 
public Accounting Firm of Haskins & Sells 
$15,500 
Audit fee for review of the Board's Division of 
Examinations procedures as applied in the examination 
of the Federal Reserve Banks ($13,000). 
Audit of the Board's books for the year ended 
December 31, 1965 ($2,500). 
SYSTEM MEMBERSHIP, CENTER FOR LATIN AMERICAN MONETARY 
STUDIES 
$25,500 
The Center for Latin American Monetary Studies was 
established by the Central Banks of Latin America in 
September 1952 for the purpose of conducting training 
courses for central bank personnel, carrying out 
research in the field of Latin American banking and 
finance, and, more recently, to act as Secretariat for 
"Meetings of central bank technicians of the Western 
Hemisphere and the heads of central banks of the 
Western Hemisphere. Almost all of the central banks 
°f the Latin American countries are members of the 
Center and pay annually a membership fee which is 
graduated roughly according to the financial capacity 
cf the individual country. The amount paid by the Board 
is approximately the same as the amount paid by each of 
the three largest Latin American contributors, namely 
Brazil, Argentina and Mexico. 

1104 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
3/21/67 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 21, 1967 
Mr. Paul L. Spooner, Jr., 
Richards, Montgomery, Cobb & Bassford, 
1430 Rand Tower, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55402 
Dear Mr. Spooner: 
This refers to your letter of February 1, 1967, 
requesting a modification of the ruling of the Board of Governors, 
codified as 12 CFR § 208.116, with respect to the off-premises 
sale of money orders by a State bank that is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
The Board has reviewed the cited ruling and has con-
sidered the views and arguments presented in your letter in 
support of its modification. However, the Board has reaffirmed 
the conclusion that branch banking is not involved in the 
off-premises sale of money orders. Therefore, it appears that no 
modification of the aforementioned ruling is called for. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1105 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
3/21/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 21, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for Legislative 
Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to a legislative referral memorandum of 
ebruary 17, 1967, requesting the views of the Board of Governors on a 
federal Home Loan Bank Board draft bill "To authorize the establishment 
Federal Mutual Savings Banks." 
The Board has no objection in principle to legislation that 
°uld authorize Federal charters for mutual savings banks and thus 
xtend to savings banks a dual system similar to that under which 
commercial banks and savings and loan associations operate. 
However, 
Jiactment of the current proposal would (1) furnish many existing 
^tual thrift instinutions with an opportunity, by converting into 
ederal savings banks, to enlarge the scope of their competition with 
mmercial banks without bearing, in a comparable manner, the burdens 
^PPlicable to such banks insofar as reserve-type requirements and 
mlnw1?11 a r e c o n c e r n e d > a n d ( 2 ) add still another layer to the already 
UJ-ti-layer scheme of Federal bank supervision. 
ce 
. 
I n P r e v i o u s years, the Board has questioned the details of 
rtam aspects of the proposal, and, to some extent, its suggested 
^anges are incorporated into the draft bill. With respect to the 
rrent proposal, the Board is particularly concerned with the provisions 
at would prohibit a Federal savings bank from converting into a 
commercial bank for at least ten years. 
i n
 
I f t h e purpose of such prohibition is to guard against 
^equitable distributions of surplus in connection with the conver-
BoanH°f 3 m u t u a l - t y P e institution into a stock-type institution, the 
^ rd suggests that a more appropriate means would be statutory 
^ovisions directed toward assuring that any such conversion is fair 
all interested persons. In this connection, it is noted that the 

1106 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
Provisions of H.R. 15, also to authorize Federal chartering of mutual 
savings banks, contains provisions that would authorize conversion of 
such a bank into a stock-type thrift institution (although it retains 
the 10-year prohibition against conversion into a commercial bank), 
juch a conversion would have to be conducted pursuant to a plan that 
vl) would prohibit the distribution of any surplus with respect to 
eposits made within one year prior to approval of the conversion by 
the depositors or by the directors, whichever occurs earlier, and (2) 
W o u l d require "time weighting of deposits" over at least a five-year 
Period for the purpose of determining the amounts of surplus distributions 
(sec. 24(a)(3)). 
There appears to be no reason why similar provisions should not 
govern the conversion of a Federal savings bank into a commercial bank, 
ather than impose an arbitrary impediment on such a conversion, which 
could clearly be in the public interest, such provisions would assure 
hat there could be no question about the fairness of any distribution 
° f surplus in connection therewith. 
Prohibiting such conversion seems 
0 presume, inappropriately, that a commercial bank into which a Federal 
savings bank might convert would not fulfill the financial needs and 
convenience of the community involved to the extent that a mutual thrift 
Institution would (or, in the case of H.R. 15, to the extent that a 
stock-type thrift institution would). The conversion of a Federal 
savings bank into any Federally-insured financial institution would be 
ubject to the approval of a Federal supervisory agency and would not 
approved unles s that agency considered that the conversion would 
b
e et such needs and convenience—that is, that the public interest would 
e served by the conversion. 
In the Board's opinion, a comprehensive study of the role of 
c
 e nation's depository-type financial institutions by a broad gauge 
^onunission with a view to legislation eliminating inequities, increasing 
^petition, and providing more adequate financial services and facilities 
0 r the American public would be most useful at this time. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Shferman. 
Secretary. 

1107 
to 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
3/21/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
March 22, 1967 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Davenport's letter of March 15, 1967, the Board 
approves the appointment of Rodney E. Reid as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, effective today. 
It is noted that Mr. Reid owns some shares 
of The Bank of California, National 
Association, 
San Francisco, California. 
Accordingly, the Board's 
approval of the appointment of Mr. Reid is given 
with the understanding that he dispose of the stock 
no later than 30 days from today's date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
