^ 609 
Minutes for 
March 21, 1969, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
:. 
: 
i 
' 
, . 
. v . 
' 
-
From: Office of the Secretary 
Jiftoke 
C co i..-
ry. .; 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 21, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Eaton and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Williams, Wernick, 
Keir, Baker, Beck, Burns, Ettin, Fry, and 
Kelty of the Division of Research and 
S tatistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, 
Gemmill, Pizer, Bradshaw, Bryant, Gekker, 
and Stem, and Mrs. Junz of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports by Mr. Keir on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry 
bank credit, and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold market 
Copies of the several documents prepared for the purpose of today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 

973 
3 / 2 1 / 6 9 
-7-
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Partee, 
Axilrod, Reynolds, and Hersey then withdrew, as did Miss Eaton. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York on March 20, 1969, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in its existing schedule was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to that Bank. 
It was noted that advice had been received that the directors 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia had established, subject 
to review and determination by the Board of Governors, a discount rate 
l. o 
' • . • . : ' 
of 6 per cent (rather than 5-1/2 per cent). 
The following entered the room at this point: 
Mr. Johnson of the Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Messrs. Solomon and Egertson of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. O'Connell, Shay, Sanders, and Plotkin of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Kiley of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Messrs. Ducy and Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Varina, Fuquay-
Varina, North Carolina, into Southern National Bank of North Carolina, 
Lumberton, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 

3 / 2 1 / 6 9 
-3-
Consummation of the proposed merger of Southern 
National Bank of North Carolina, Lumberton, and Bank 
of Varina would eliminate a slight degree of existing 
competition and some potential for more competition 
between them. 
The overall effect on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of Citizens 
State Bank, Jamestown, Indiana, by The Boone County State Bank, 
Lebanon, Indiana, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion reading as 
follows: 
The purchase of assets and assumption of deposit 
liabilities of Citizens State Bank, Jamestown, Indiana, 
by The Boone County State Bank, Lebanon, Indiana, would 
eliminate the relatively minor existing competition be-
tween the two banks and potential for greater competition 
between them. The overall effect on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The American National Bank of Austin, Austin, Texas, with 
Ambank, National Association, Austin, Texas, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum of March 18, 1969, Mr. 
Broida submitted a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting 
of the Federal Open Market Committee on January 14, 1969, as revised 

976 
3/21/69 
-4-
to take account of comments received from Committee members and staff 
following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
The entry was approved by the Board with the understanding that 
it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents for possible 
further comments and then released to the press about April 14, 1969, 
after final review by the Board. 
Kennedy questionnaire (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter that would be sent over Chairman Martin's signature 
to Senator Kennedy, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Administrative 
Practice and Procedure of the Committee on the Judiciary, submitting 
a memorandum containing responses to the Senator's questionnaire, trans-
mitted with his letter of February 24, 1969, on administrative practices 
and procedures. The memorandum had been revised to take into account 
changes suggested by the Board at its meeting on March 17. 
A copy of the letter with enclosure is attached as Item No. 1. 
Section 23A matter. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated February 26, 1969, relating to whether 
a bank loan to an affiliate's bank premises subsidiary is exempt from 
the limitations of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Consideration of the memorandum was deferred to permit further 
study by members of the Board. 
Regulations on advertising. There was made available to the 
members of the Board a draft of press release regarding a proposed 

!TV7 
3 / 2 1 / 6 9 
-3-
rule designed to foster greater clarity in advertising by member banks 
of the interest paid on deposits. The proposal would amend Regula-
tion Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, and would implement the 
authority granted to the Board by Congress in the Act of September 21, 
1968. A copy of the proposed amendments in the form in which they 
would be published in the Federal Register for comment was attached. 
Governor Mitchell reported that a similar document had been 
circulated to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation at its 
meeting yesterday and the point debated was the use of the average 
annual percentage yield in advertisements. Mr. Preston Martin, the 
new Chairman of the Home Loan Bank Board, had expressed a strong view 
that advertisement of a yield based on retention of a deposit for more 
than five years should be prohibited. Chairman Randall of the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation and Mr. Bloom, the representative of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, did not want to have any maximum period 
specified. However, they also said that they did not think a rate of 
interest should be advertised as "guaranteed" for a lifetime or any-
thing like that. After offering several compromises, Governor Mitchell 
said, he finally suggested accepting Mr. Martin's position, and the 
others also tentatively agreed for purposes of publication for comment, 
though they reserved the right to change their minds after comments 
were received. Accordingly, the proposed regulations were written in 
terms that a rate should not be advertised as "guaranteed" for a period 
in excess of five years and that a total or average percentage yield 

978 
3/21/69 
-6-
should not be advertised that was in excess of the yield on a deposit 
if held for five years. 
As to the question of the date of publishing the proposed 
regulations of the three agencies (the Board, FDIC, and Home Loan Bank 
Board), Governor Mitchell said that if the proposals were to be issued 
simultaneously it apparently would be necessary to wait until Friday 
of next week because of scheduled meetings of the boards of directors 
of the other two agencies. 
Governor Robertson suggested deferring action on publication 
of the proposed regulations until Monday. Governors Daane and Maisel 
noted that they would not be present at Monday's meeting but indicated 
that they were agreeable to publication of the proposed regulations as 
drafted. 
Study of discount mechanism. Governor Mitchell commented that 
he would like the Board's advice with regard to how to deal with the 
report, "Recommended Changes in the Proposal for Redesign of the 
Discount Mechanism," prepared by the Steering Committee. The document, 
which included as an appendix a proposed revision of Regulation A, was 
in form for use in determining whether the Board was ready to adopt the 
recommendations and move forward to publication of the revised Regula-
tion for comment. 
After discussion it was agreed that the first week of April, 
at which time a full Board would be present, would be an appropriate 
time to discuss the report. 

973 
3 / 2 1 / 6 9 
-7-
Massachusetts mutual savings banks. Governor Mitchell reported 
that Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had 
expressed concern about the position under the current interest rate 
ceilings of eight Federally-insured mutual savings banks in the State 
of Massachusetts, the contention being that they were finding it 
extremely difficult to compete with the other mutuals in the State and 
might withdraw from insured status unless relief was given. Governor 
Mitchell said he was mentioning this matter at the request of Chairman 
Randall and that further information would be made available to the 
Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

980 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
N q > 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y S T E M 
3/21/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
March 25, 1969. 
The Honorable Edward M. Kennedy, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Administrative Practice 
and Procedure, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of February 24, 1969, 
requesting my responses to a questionnaire concerning the Board's 
administrative practices and procedures for the use of the Sub-
committee on Administrative Practice and Procedure of the 
Senate Committee on the Judiciary. 
There is enclosed a memorandum containing my answers 
to the questions presented, and I hope that this information 
will be useful to the members of your Subcommittee. 
As I mentioned in the memorandum, as a statutory mem-
ber of the Administrative Conference of the United States I 
have designated a member of the Board's official staff to serve 
on the Conference. Consequently, through regular and active 
participation in the deliberations of the Administrative Con-
ference, the Board and its staff are kept abreast of current 
developments in the area of administrative law and practice. 
I have been authorized by the other members of the 
Board to state that they are in agreement with the views and 
comments contained in the enclosed memorandum. 
Enclosure 

RESPONSES TO QUESTIONNAIRE tftE^ARfiD POk 1H£ USfc OF THE 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ADMINISTRATIVE PRACTICE AND PROCEDURE 
SENATE COMMITTEE ON THE JUDICIARY 
Citizen Involvement in the Administrative Process. 
A, To what extent, if any, and in what manner is there an input 
into the agency's decision-making process from private citi-
zens and citizen groups? Does the agency encourage such 
inputs? How? Could these inputs be greater? How? 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in 
addition to its responsibility for the formulation and implementa-
tion of monetary policy, is charged with the responsibility of 
supervising and regulating at the Federal level State-chartered 
banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. It has 
also been assigned other supervisory and regulatory functions by 
the Congress in addition to the supervision of State member banks. 
In the performance of these supervisory and regulatory 
functions assigned to it by the Federal Reserve Act and other 
statutes, the Board seeks the views of the public, particularly 
those most directly affected, in all cases except where the pub-
lic interest requires the immediate adoption of an action. The 
involvement of private citizens and citizen groups is encouraged 
primarily through publication in the Federal Register of requests 
for comments, views, and suggestions with respect to notices of 
proposed rulemaking. In addition, the Board often holds formal 
hearings and oral presentations in order to obtain the views of 
interested parties on matters pending before the Board. The 
Board also meets informally from time to time with various groups 
to discuss matters of mutual interest. 

Further liaison with the public is obtained through the 
Federal Reserve Banks and their branches which are located in the 
major cities of the United States and are integral parts of their 
local communities. 
Finally, individual members of the Board frequently 
appear in all sections of the country before groups with widely 
divergent interests, and the views of such groups are made known 
to Board members. 
The Board does encourage private citizens and citizen 
groups to participate in the decision-making process. As indi-
cated above, this is accomplished by requests for comments and 
suggestions from the general public on regulatory matters; the 
i 
scheduling of hearings and oral presentations; and the direction 
of specific requests for comments and suggestions on various 
matters to those groups and individuals known to the Board to 
have a special interest in a particular subject. 
I believe that the degree of public involvement in the 
decision-making processes of the Board is suitable at the present 
time and, consequently, further public participation therein 
would not appear to be necessary. 
B. Does the agency have any citizen or industry advisory groups? 
If so, describe briefly their functions and composition. Do 
these groups become involved In any way in the policy-making 
or decision-making process? What attempts are made to solicit 
views of affected groups that otherwise might not become in-
volved in the administrative process on their own initiative? 
The principal advisory group to the Board is the Federal 
Advisory Council which was established and operates pursuant to 
the provisions of section 12 of the Federal Reserve Act 

(12 U.S.C. 261,262). The Council consists of twelve members 
(one for each Federal Reserve District) selected annually by 
the board of directors of each Federal Reserve Bank. The Coun-
cil, which meets in Washington, D. C., at least four times a 
a year, is authorized under the Act (1) to confer with the 
Board on general business conditions, (2) to make representa-
tions concerning matters within the jurisdiction of the Board, 
and (3) to make recommendations to the Board in regard to mone-
tary policy and the general affairs of the reserve banking 
system. 
Pursuant to the provisions of section 110 of the 
recently enacted "Truth in Lending Act", which is Title I of 
4 
the Consumer Credit Protection Act, the Board has appointed an 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending to advise and consult 
with it in the exercise of its functions under the Act. The 
Advisory Committee presently consists of 20 members represent-
ing the interests of sellers of merchandise on credit, lenders, 
and the general public. 
In addition to the above-mentioned statutory bodies, 
there is within the Federal Reserve System a Conference of 
Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks which advises and consults 
with the Board on matters relating to System policy and actions 
Although the groups mentioned above are advisory in 
nature, and all final policy decisions are made by the Board, 
... 
. 
' 
. . . . 
'y 
— V j i /1 v 
- • • 
they do make recommendations to the Board on a wide variety of 
subjects and these recommendations are, of course, considered 
in the decision-making process. 

The Board also engages consultants in various fields 
:;;•;. 
; > -t.*. -'si 
-C Am''' I •.« ••• • .V 
>*» 
i.n " 
'. ' i 
to advise the Board in their areas of expertise, and special men-
tion might be made of the use of academic consultants of national 
repute to consult with the Board on matters of economic and mone-
tary policy. These academic consultants generally meet in a 
group with the Board three or four times a year. 
As indicated in response to question I A, above, the 
Board seeks the views of affected groups that otherwise might 
not become involved in the administrative process on their own 
initiative by soliciting their comments, views, and suggestions 
on specific matters, by requesting such groups to present their 
views at hearings and 'oral presentations before the Board, and 
n 
by informal meetings. 
C. What procedures are used to take account of the views 
and consider the needs of the poor as they might be 
affected by the agency's decision-making? What pro-
cedures could be used? 
The Board does not administer any program directed primarily 
at the economically underprivileged segments of society. Our chief 
responsibility relates to achieving conditions in the economy gener-
ally that will enable all members of our society to achieve higher 
living standards. In discharging this responsibility we believe we 
are working for the benefit of the poor as well as others, and we 
do our best to take their needs into account. 
In preparing and promulgating regulations to carry out the 
Truth in Lending Act, we recognized that our efforts could have a 
special impact in helping those who are particularly vulnerable to 

-5-
998 
credit abuses. Accordingly, in appointing the Advisory Committee 
on Truth in Lending we included members whose work in the fields 
of welfare and community relations have qualified them to speak 
with sympathy and understanding of the problems of the poor. 
In view of the nature of our functions, it seems 
doubtful that any further efforts to establish special proce-
dures for obtaining the views of the poor would be particularly 
useful. 
D. How does the agency respond to individual citizen com-
plaints about persons, entities, or activities subject 
to its regulation? Describe what happens to an individual 
complaint from the time it is received until there is 
final agency action on it. What is the role of the com-
plaining party during the agency's deliberation on his 
complaint? Are there adequate sanctions available to deter 
future activities of a type which has led to past valid 
complaints? Explain. How frequently are they invoked? 
The Board responds to individual citizen complaints 
about persons, entities, or activities subject to its regula-
tion in a variety of ways, depending on the individual institu-
tion or activity involved and the nature of the complaint. 
Complaints involving member banks are frequently re-
ferred to the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank for investigation 
and comment prior to action thereon by the Board. The complain-
ant is advised promptly that the matter is under investigation. 
If the matter is not of substantial gravity, or does not involve 
a violation of law or regulation but does involve a questionable 

998 
-6-
banking practice within the Board's jurisdiction, the bank in 
question is consulted by the Federal Reserve Bank and generally 
the bank's management cooperates in correcting the situation. In 
the event of more serious complaints involving violations of law 
or regulation, or unsound or unsafe practices, the Financial 
Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966 (12 U.S.C. 1818), the so-
called "cease and desist" legislation, is available to the Board. 
Matters within the jurisdiction of other agencies (i.e. Comp-
troller of the Currency, Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Department of Justice, SEC etc.) are referred to such agencies 
for action. The complainant generally has no active role in the 
procedural steps taken within the System, although he is kept 
fully informed of the status of his complaint. 
If, on the basis of complaints received, it is dis-
covered that individuals or institutions are engaged in improper 
or unsafe activities, such activities can be corrected and 
deterred either through the Federal Reserve examination func-
tion, or, as previously mentioned, through "cease and desist" 
proceedings. It has not heretofore been necessary for the 
Board to resort to the latter inasmuch as activities which give 
rise to complaints have been corrected by the banks themselves 
or through examination procedures. 

-7-
E. Do those who are affected by the agency's activities 
know enough about it? How is citizen and industry aware-
ness of the agency's functions, processes and decisions 
promoted? How can the outward flow of information be 
improved? To what extent are agency records, proceedings, 
meetings, or opinions withheld from public view? What 
are the reasonr for such withholding? 
The Board's activities directly affect the member banks 
of the Federal Reserve System, and such banks are fully cognizant, 
I believe, of the nature, purpose, and functions of the Federal 
Reserve System by virtue of their membership in the System. Mem-
ber banks are advised of all policy and regulatory actions of the 
Board by the Reserve Banks, as well as through publication of 
certain of such matters in the public press, the Federal Reserve 
Bulletin, and the Federal Register. 
Citizen and industry awareness of the System's functions 
are promoted in the following ways: (1) publication of literature 
descriptive of the purposes, functions, processes, and decisions 
of the System; (2) consultation and meetings with industry and 
educational groups and individuals; (3) through the operations of 
a standing System committee on public relations; and (4) release 
to the press of all important actions and a wide range of statis-
tics describing Federal Reserve operations. 
The Board also has a formal visitor program under which 
domestic and foreign visitors are received at the Board's offices 
for varying periods of time. Under that program there were 1,764 
foreign and domestic visitors to the Board's offices in 1968. 
Similar programs are in effect at the Federal Reserve Banks. 

998 
-8-
With respect to the availability of agency records, 
the Board complies fully with the letter and spirit of the Public 
Information Act and, in fact, in many respects goes beyond the 
technical requirement of that Act. Accordingly, the records and 
opinions of the Board are made freely available to the public 
except those which are required to be withheld in order to allow 
the Board to perform effectively its statutory responsibilities, 
or to avoid injury to a public or private interest. In some 
instances, certain types of information are not made available 
until after such period of time as the Board determines is neces-
sary to avoid effects which would interfere with the accomplish-
ment of the Board's .objectives or which would allow certain 
persons to gain unfair advantages. For example, the policy 
actions of the Federal Open Market Committee are published 
approximately 90 days after each meeting of the Committee. 
The meetings of the Board of Governors and the Federal 
Open Market Committee are not open to the public because of the 
confidential nature of the matters discussed in such meetings. 
F. What efforts are made to make information about the agency, 
and access to the agency's information and complaint 
services, available outside Washington, D. C.? Assuming 
adequate funding, what procedures could be used? 
As indicated in response to question I E above, there 
is a standing Federal Reserve committee in existence which con-
tinually seeks means of providing relevant and complete informa-
tion to the public regarding the Federal Reserve System. The 
12 Federal Reserve Banks and their 24 Branches are also active 

998 
-9-
in public information programs in their individual areas of the 
country. Consequently, information concerning the System need 
not be obtained from Washington but can in many cases be obtained 
from the local Federal Reserve office. 
I believe that the present scope of these programs is 
adequate to assure full and reasonably prompt information about 
the System throughout the nation. 
n . 
Procedures for Promoting more Responsive Agency Decison-making. 
A. Do you believe that the agency's decision-making pro-
cedures operate with reasonable speed, considering the 
interests and issues involved? Assuming that faster 
processing and decision-making are desirable, how 
could they be achieved? 
In view of the importance of the issues and interests 
involved, I believe that the agency's decision-making procedures 
operate with reasonable speed. This is not to say that the Board 
and its staff do not continually attempt to improve their per-
formance in this regard. For example, the Board recently reexam-
ined its procedures with respect to the processing of bank merger 
and bank holding company applications and was able thereby to 
shorten the processing time involved. 
In addition, pursuant to a relatively recent amendment 
to section 11 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 248(k)), the 
Board has delegated to an individual Board member, its staff and 
the Federal Reserve Banks a number of functions which formerly 
were required to be acted upon by the Board itself. This dele-
gation of functions has been, in my opinion, the single most 

In-
effective tool the Board has employed to expedite the process-
ing of applications requiring Board approval. Moreover, the 
Board's staff is presently engaged in a study to determine addi-
tional functions which might appropriately be delegated to the 
staff or to the Federal Reserve Banka. 
B. What specialized human and mechanical resources such as 
systems analysts, computers and computer operators, test-
ing facilities, etc., are available within the agency? 
Has the agency developed means of securing such resources 
from other government agencies or outside sources? Does 
the superior availability of such resources to the regu-
lated enterprises result in agency procedures which rely 
on facts and information provided by them? 
The Board's data processing needs are provided by the 
Division of Data Processing which consists of approximately 120 
personnel, including systems analysts, programmers, applications 
analysts, statisticians, and equipment operators. The Board is 
presently operating with one computer system, an IBM 360/50, and 
assorted off-line electronic accounting machine, automatic plotting, 
and source data automation equipment. 
Considerable sharing of data processing resources occurs 
among the three Federal bank regulatory agencies. Data are also 
exchanged between the Board and other agencies, and where feasi-
ble there is exchange of applicable computer programs. The 
Board also participates in Government-wide ADP coordination 
activities, and the Director of the Board's Data Processing 
Division is a member of the Interagency ADP Committee. 
In addition, contact, liaison, and consultation with 
various universities are maintained, and there has been a sig-

-11-
nificant exchange of data and programs with universities and 
individual research scholars. 
It is my belief that the availability to the Board of 
the human and mechanical resources mentioned above results in an 
independent evaluation of data submitted to the Board by its 
member banks and does not require reliance on data processing or 
analysis provided by such banks. 
C. What procedures or mechanisms does the agency have for 
consulting and coordinating with other government agencies 
with overlapping, interrelated or conflicting responsi-
bilities? 
In the area of monetary and financial policy, the Board 
and its staff meet regularly with representatives of the Treasury 
< 
Department and the President's Council of Economic Advisers. The 
lines of communication with these agencies are, of course, open 
at all times to discuss matters of mutual interest. 
With respect to regulatory matters, the Board is repre-
sented on the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation which is 
composed of representatives of the Board, the Comptroller of 
the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. The purpose of this Committee 
is to deal with matters of overlapping, interrelated or conflict-
ing responsibilities in the Federal bank supervisory agencies. 
Moreover, applications for Board action with respect 
to national banks and State nonmember insured banks are sent to 
the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insur-
i .... 
... 
., 
ance Corporation for comment. In connection with foreign 

-12-
banking and financing matters, the informal views of the Depart-
ment of State are obtained in each case, and consultation is 
effected with the Securities and Exchange Commission with respect 
to securities matters within the Board's jurisdiction. 
The Board also receives from the other Federal bank 
supervisory agencies and the Department of Justice reports on 
the competitive factors involved in proposed mergers subject to 
the Board's jurisdiction. In bank holding company cases, notice 
of all applications is given to the Department of Justice and to 
the Federal and State bank supervisory agencies, and the views 
of the Justice Department, as well as those of the primary super-
i 
visory authority, are considered. By statute, the Chairman of 
the Board is a member of the National Advisory Council on 
International Monetary and Financial Policies which is composed 
of the heads of those Departments and agencies of the Government 
concerned with international financial and monetary matters. 
Finally, as a statutory member of the Administrative Conference 
of the United States, which is composed of the principal 
Departments and agencies of the Government, I have designated 
a member of the Board's official staff to serve on the Conference. 
D. What procedures does the agency have for assessing the 
quality and efficiency of its own performance? How often 
and in what manner does the agency review the continuing 
relevance of its mission, goals, priorities, procedures, 
and structure? In what ways could such review be stimu-
lated? Would modern techniques of cost-benefit analysis 
and "P.P.B.S," be helpful? If so, how could they be ap-
plied? If not, why not? Are there gaps in the agency's 
statutory authority? What procedures are used to develop 
legislative recommendations within the agency for filling 
such gaps? 

-13-
9f?3 
There are a number of procedures in effect which 
enables the Board to assess the quality and efficiency of its 
own performance. 
There is an element of assessment of performance in-
volved in the preparation of the Annual Report of the Board to 
the Speaker of the House of Representatives as required by 
section 10 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 247). A simi-
lar element of appraisal is involved in the functioning of the 
Federal Advisory Council, as previously described. Assessment 
of the quality and efficiency of performance is also necessarily 
involved in the statements or reports to the Joint Economic Com-
mittee and to ottyer committees of the Congress. Appraisal of 
performance with regard to achieving the objectives of the 
organization is inherent in the meetings of the Board and of the 
Federal Open Market Committee. Performance appraisal is also 
involved in the published record of Board and Federal Open Market 
Committee deliberations. 
As mentioned previously, the Board holds a seminar 
participated in by members of the Board and leading academicians, 
and having for its purpose the discussion of economic problems 
pertinent to the Board's objectives. This, too, is an instrument 
for appraising the Board's performance insofar as achievement of 
objectives is concerned. 
With regard to internal assessment of the quality and 
efficiency of staff performance, such assessment is, of course, 
implicit in the regular budget and program performance reviews. 

-14-
For purposes of facilitating internal administration, 
the Board has designated one of its members as the Board member 
in charge of internal administrative affairs, and delegates 
appropriate authority and responsibility to the member so desig-
nated. The Board as a whole, of course, keeps in touch with 
important operating problems and decides on questions involving 
administrative or internal organization policy. 
In the fall of the year, each of the Board's twelve 
Divisions formulates its program for the coming calendar year 
and estimates budget provisions necessary to finance the pro-
posed program. These budgets and programs are reviewed by the 
Office of the Controller and, after appropriate modifications 
and revisions have been made, are then reviewed by the Board 
member in charge of internal affairs. After any further revi-
sions have been made, the preliminary budget and program for the 
coming year are presented to the Board for consideration. Each 
Division Head is given an opportunity to present his program and 
Justify his budget proposals. Necessarily involved is an appraisal 
of accomplishments during the current year since future programs 
are, in one phase of the process, reviewed in the light of such 
accomplishments. 
During the calendar year, Quarterly Budget Performance 
Reports are required of each Division. Special emphasis is placed 
upon the Mid-Year Review and the Year-End Review. The latter 
• 
' 
. 
• ' ' ' . 
covers the entire calendar year and is accomplished within the 

998 
-15-
first quarter of the following year. Assessment of the quality 
and efficiency of performance and of procedures are a large part 
of such reviews. 
Considerable preliminary work has been done in explor-
ing the possibilities of "PPBS" including the application of 
cost-benefit analysis and in developing an integrated system of 
planning, programming, and budgeting. More intensive work in 
this area is presently under way. 
A review and reappraisal of the Board's budgetary 
process was initiated in 1968. The results pointed up possibili-
ties for improvements in planning, programming, and budgeting. 
Prior to this exploration, a number of appropriate staff 
members participated in pertinent interagency training courses 
in financial management and budgeting conducted by the Civil 
Service Commission's Financial Management and PPBS Training 
Center. 
The review and reappraisal of the Board's budget 
processes resulted in formation of an ad hoc Committee headed 
by the Board member in charge of internal administrative affairs 
and having for its objective the study of planning and program-
ming processes with the intent of improving such functions at 
the Board. 
The ad hoc Committee concluded that the development 
of elements of a planning, programming, and budgeting system at 
the Board, including the application of cost-beneiit analysis 
techniques, should be given high priority in 1969. 

998 
-16-
We do not anticipate a need for any broadening of the 
Board'8 statutory authority to Implement further programs of cost-
benefit analysis or "P.P*B.S." 
E. Answer only where applicable. 
Do you feel that agency staff has too much, not enough, 
or about the right amount of impact on agency decision-
making processes? Explain. How could this level of 
impact be changed? Is agency staff adequately responsive 
to the needs of individual agency members? Would agency 
members perform better if they had larger personal staffs? 
Would the quality of agency staff work be improved or re-
duced if employees were given incentives to rotate 
periodically to other government agencies? Is staff 
quality adequate to handle the complex and sophisticated 
issues presented to the agency? If not, how could staff 
capability be enhanced? To what extent have employees 
of regulated or affected Industries been selected as 
agency staff or members, and to what extent have staff 
and members subsequently become employed in such indus-
tries? Do you feel such selections and hiring contribute 
to or detract from the agency's work? What limits, if 
any, should be placed on such selections and hiring? 
I believe that the Board's staff has an appropriate degree 
of impact on the Board's decision-making processes. In addition to 
preparing documentation in preparation for meetings of the Board and 
the Federal Open Market Committee, the Board and Committee staff 
Participate actively in such meetings to the extent required. 
Since I consider that the influence of the staff is about 
rl8ht, I would not change the level of its Impact on decision making. 
I also believe that the Board's staff is fully responsive 
to the needs of individual Board members. However, some members of 
the Board have a personal research assistant, and this arrangement 
18 undoubtedly useful as a supplement to regular staff work. 
Whether it would be helpful for Board members to have larger 
Personal staffs is a matter of individual judgment for each Board 
®ember. 

998 
-17-
In my opinion, the quality of agency staff Work would 
not be improved materially by periodic rotation of employefes 
to other Government agencies. Very few of the Board's staff 
positions relate to the responsibilities of other Government 
agencies except for the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the Comptroller of the Currency. Some knowledge of the in-
ternal operations of a few other agencies could improve the 
quality of the Board's staff work, but probably not suffi-
ciently to justify the problems involved in a heavy rotation 
program. 
I should say, however, that the effect of rotation 
upon the quality of agency staff work would depend upon the 
level and type of work received in the agency to which rotated. 
Exposure to new ideas and new approaches generally has a bene-
ficial effect. A number of our staff members have had prior 
service with other Government agencies and certainly the 
overall effect has been beneficial. Also, the Board has 
loaned a number of its staff to other U. S. Government agen-
cies for both domestic and overseas assignments. 
It is my judgment that the Board's staff is competent 
to deal with the issues presented to the Board. The Board 
is, however, constantly seeking to improve its recruitment 
programs to attract personnel of the highest caliber. 
There was very little movement between the Board's 
staff and commercial banks, holding companies, Edge Act 
Corporations, etc., during the period covering the last 

998 
-18-
calendar year (1968) and 1969 to date. During that period, 
one staff member was employed directly from a commercial bank 
and two members of the staff resigned to accept positions with 
J-i r 
" 
• , 
. 
. :.vt " ; . 
. • 
commercial banks; none of these personnel was in a high level 
position. 
The Board issues regulations affecting commercial 
banks, stockbrokers, organizations extending credit, etc. It 
is, of course, quite helpful to take into consideration the 
practical problems of the regulated organizations; and, to 
insure that this is done, panels, seminars, and hearings with 
representatives of regulated organizations are held. 
In addition, the Board has appointed two bankers and 
several representatives from the lending industry to the Advisory 
Committee on Truth in Lending mentioned above. This Committee 
was established by legislation, which specifically stipulated 
that the Committee should be selected so as to provide a fair 
representation of retailer, lender, and consumer groups in all 
sections of the country. 
Such selections and hiring result in better informed 
and more sophisticated regulations, and is desirable, provided 
that there is no controlling influence in the direction of 
favoring the regulated organizations. To prevent any bias for 
or against regulated organizations, all proposed regulations, 
interpretations, etc., are reviewed by the Board Members to 
insure complete objectivity. 

-19-
This Questionnaire. 
How long did it take you to complete Sections I and 
II? Do you think the questions raised useful and rele-
vant issues about the agency's practices, procedures, 
and problems? What questitms would you have left out? 
What additional areas should have been covered? Would 
you have been able to answer more freely if the responses 
were anonymous? 
Including the time spent in drafting and review, 
sections I and II of this questionnaire were completed in 
approximately three working days. 
The questions contained in the questionnaire appear 
to raise useful and relevant issues concerning the Board's 
practices, procedures, and problems, although, obviously, some 
questions are moite relevant to one agency's procedures than to 
another's. 
The answers to these questions would have been the 
same even if they had been submitted anonymously. 
