MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 30, 1970 

350 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 30, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Br immer 
Mr. Sherrill 
VOU 
*»^ > j r. 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

351 
1/30/70 
-13-
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
Discount rates. The establishment by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston and San Francisco of a rate of 7-1/2 per cent on 
advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act was approved unanimously, together with the establishment 
without change of the rates on discounts and advances to member banks 
•Awi 
/ 
• ' 
...... . . . 
in their existing schedules, with the understanding that appropriate 
An:;,-? cl, . , t.c.c: , v - • • ; 
• ; • 
' . ; 
advice would be sent to those Banks and that the other Reserve Banks 
IHv > :.•. ; r^i:.'.'.. v''••• 
'.'• • .. - • 
would be informed regarding the establishment of the 7-1/2 per cent 
rate. 
First National City Bank. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 27, 1970, relating to the application of 
First National City Bank, New York, New York, to purchase 50 per 
cent of the shares of Internationale Investitions-und Finanzierungs 
Bank A.G., Vienna, Austria. First National City Bank would hold an 
option to purchase an additional one per cent of the stock at the 
•E 
I" P. 0, 
- , ; ; 
_ 
expiration of a 5-year period. 
In the meantime an Austrian com-
mercial bank and its affiliates would exercise operational control 

3r ' > 
1/30/70 
-10-
although First National City would provide considerable assistance 
to management, in addition to appointing 6 of the 12 directors. 
For the duration of the 5-year period, First National City Bank 
requested that the Board suspend the standard condition imposed in 
a joint venture of this kind that First National City Bank dispose 
of its shares if Internationale Investitions should engage in any 
activity or take any action that would not be permissible if Inter-
nationale Investitions were an Edge corporation engaged in banking. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter to First National 
City Bank that would approve the application and grant the requested 
suspension. 
Discussion centered on what consitituted effective control, 
and whether it would prevail in the circumstances of this case. 
Among the factors advanced by the staff as lending weight to the 
Division's recommendation were the position taken by the Board in 
somewhat similar instances in the past and the operational control 
that the Austrian group would appear to exercise, including the 
right 
of the chairman of Internationale Investitions (whom they 
would appoint) to cast any tie-breaking vote. 
The majority of the Board expressed willingness to accept 
the staff recommendation, subject to the understanding that the 
situation 
would be reviewed at the end of a year after acquisition 
°f the shares. 

353 
1/30/70 
-13-
Approval was then given to the letter to First National 
City Bank (copy attached as Item No. 1), Governor Robertson dis-
senting . 
Bankers International Corporation. Applications of Bankers 
International Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire directly 
or indirectly all of the outstanding shares of (1) Rodo Investment 
Trust Ltd., London, England, and its subsidiaries and (2) Bankers 
Trust Finanziaria S.p.A., Rome, Italy, had previously been approved 
by the Board. However, Bankers International had also requested 
(1) that the restrictions of Regulation K, Corporations Engaged in 
Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal Reserve Act, and of 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as applied in the standard 
conditions for foreign subsidiaries, not be made applicable, or 
(2) failing 
approval of a blanket waiver, that certain specific 
exemptions be granted as to the operations of both institutions. 
In connection with another similar application of Bankers 
International Corporation, the Board had concluded that a general 
waiver could not be granted but certain specific suspensions could 
be made. 
By letter dated January 28, 1970, the Board had amended 
its previous approval to reflect that decision. However, certain 
additional exemptions had been requested in connection with the 
Rodo Investment Trust and Bankers Trust Finanziaria applications, 
and there had now been distributed a memorandum from the Division 

354 
1/30/70 
-13-
of Supervision and Regulation dated January 29, 1970, setting 
forth the recommendations of the Division, which were more 
restrictive than those of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to Bankers Inter-
national that would reflect the recommendations of the Division. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell took issue with certain 
of the limitations proposed by the Division, on the ground that 
their imposition was arbitrary and would result in an unduly 
restrictive posture. Governor Daane agreed with Governor Mitchell's 
evaluation and leaned toward acceptance of the New York recommenda-
tions, as did Chairman Martin, although the latter indicated that 
he would not dissent in this instance from the majority position. 
While other members of the Board supported the recommendations of 
the Division, there was general agreement that a thorough review 
of the provisions of Regulation K was in order, and the staff was 
.requested to undertake such a review. 
The letter to Bankers International was then approved, 
Governor Mitchell and Daane dissenting. A copy is attached as 
.Item No. 2. 
BancOhio Corporation. 
There had been distributed drafts of 
an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on December 30, 
1969, of the application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to 
acquire up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Logan County 
fiank, Beliefontaine, Ohio 

355 
1/30/70 
-13-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Cop ies of the documents are attached under Item No. 3. 
Long Island Trust Company. There had been distributed 
drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's denial on 
January 22, 1970, of the application of Long Island Trust Company, 
Garden City, New York, to merge with Bank of Westbury Trust Company, 
Westbury, New York. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 4. 
United Virginia Bankshares. 
On November 5, 1969, by a 
4 - 3 vote, the Board had approved the application of United Virginia 
Bankshares, Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Manassas Bank, N. A., Manassas, 
Virginia, a proposed new bank into which would be merged The Peoples 
National Bank of Manassas under the charter of the proposed bank 
and the title United Virginia Bank/Peoples National. 
(Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer had dissented.) Subsequently, the 
Department of Justice submitted a report in which it concluded that 
the acquisition would have a significantly adverse effect upon 
potential competition, particularly within Prince William County. 
The Board then decided to review its earlier action and directed 
that United Virginia Bankshares be permitted an opportunity to 
respond to the report of the Department of Justice. 

1/30/70 
-10-
Following review of the Justice Department report and 
United Virginia Bankshares' reply, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation stood by its favorable recommendation. 
The Legal Divi-
sion expressed the opinion that approval would be sustained in the 
event of court review. However, the Banking Markets Section 
reaffirmed its view that the competitive effects of the proposed 
acquisition would be adverse and that convenience and needs 
considerations would not warrant approval. 
Following discussion, the Board reaffirmed its earlier 
action approving the application, Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer dissenting. 
The issuance of an order and statement reflecting this 
action was authorized. 
Copies of the documents are attached under 
Item No. 5, together with a copy of the dissenting statement. 
Hamilton National Associates. A memorandum from the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation dated January 21, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an appli-
cation of Hamilton National Associates, Incorporated, Chattanooga, 
Tennessee, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Citizens Bank of White Pine, White Pine, Tennessee. 
On the grounds 
that there appeared to be no positive considerations to outweigh 
adverse competitive factors, the Division recommended that the 
application be denied. However, the Banking Markets Section viewed 

357 
1/30/70 
-13-
the competitive effect of the proposed acquisition as only slightly 
adverse and considered that convenience and needs factors would 
lend some support. 
After discussion, which related mostly to definition of the 
market area, the application was approved, Governors Robertson and 
Maisel dissenting, with the understanding that an order and statement 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration, along with a dis-
senting statement. 
Exchange Bancorporation. 
There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
January 23, 1970, and other pertinent papers relating to the applica-
tion of Exchange Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peninsula State Bank, 
also of Tampa. 
The staff recommended denial, as did the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Following discussion, the application was denied by unanimous 
vote, with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
that decision would be drafted f or the Board's consideration. 
Bank of New Jersey. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated January 12, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with applications 
°f The Bank of New Jersey, Camden, New Jersey, to merge with The 
Tradesmens Bank and Trust Company of Vineland and with Garden State 
Bank, Cinnaminson Township. 
The Division recommended that both 

358 
1/30/70 
-13-
applications be approved. The Banking Markets Section recommended 
approval of the merger with Tradesmens Bank, but recommended denial 
of the Garden State Bank merger on the grounds that the competitive 
effect would be adverse and any slight gain to convenience and needs 
would not outweigh the anticompetitive effects. 
During discussion the strong possibility was noted that 
Bank of New Jersey would convert to national charter if the mergers 
were denied. It was also noted that management had recently 
repelled an attempt on the part of the "Parsons Group" to take over 
the bank and now apparently felt that it should pursue expansionary 
tactics in order to validate its successful resistance to the 
"Parsons Group" efforts. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that as a general 
principle a trend among larger banks to solidify their market 
positions through mergers should be discouraged. However, denial 
of both applications might well result in conversion by Bank of 
New Jersey to national charter. Approval of the Tradesmens merger 
could be justified on some grounds, but denial of the Garden 
State merger might serve to convey the message that mergers 
involving undue market concentration were recognized as hostile 
to the public interest. Governor Brimmer shared this assessment 
of the situation, as did Governor Robertson. Other Board members, 
however, felt that it was difficult to disassociate the two 

1/30/70 
-10-
proposals and concluded that the approval of both was warranted for 
reasons presented by the Division of Supervision and Regulation. 
The application to merge with The Tradesmens Bank and Trust 
Company was then approved unanimously. 
The application to merge 
with Garden State Bank was also approved, but with Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood 
that orders and statements would be drafted for the Board's con-
sideration, and that a dissenting statement with respect to the 
Garden State Bank merger would also be prepared. 
Consumer protection legislation. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Chairman of the Subcommittee on Executive 
Reorganization of the Senate Committee on Government Operations 
regarding S. 2045, S. 3097, S. 3165, and S. 3240, bills to establish 
an Office or Bureau of Consumer Affairs. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
Salary of officer at Helena Branch. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis approving 
the payment of salary to John D. Johnson as Assistant Vice President, 
assigned to the Helena Branch, at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board 
of Directors. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
Subordinated obligations. 
In a memorandum dated January 28, 
1970, the staff discussed arguments for and against actions that 
might be taken with respect to bank subordinated notes: 
(1) define 
them as deposits for purposes of Regulation D, Reserves of Member 

360 
4 
1/30/70 
-11-
Banks, and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits; (2) treat them as 
other than capital for supervisory purposes; and (3) require full 
and fair disclosure of their status as bank obligations. 
The staff 
favored the third action, but recommended against the first. 
Views 
were split on the second. 
At today's meeting Governor Robertson suggested that since 
the subject was under consideration by the Coordinating Committee 
on Bank Regulation, the Board delay action pending the outcome of 
those deliberations. He indicated that there appeared to be 
agreement within the Committee that any advertising should make 
clear that the instruments were subordinated and were not insured 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
However, the Corpora-
tion was still in the process of examining the problem in terms of 
its statutes. 
In addition, Committee members seemed to share the 
view that subordinated notes should not be treated as capital for 
supervisory purposes unless the notes had maturities of at least 
five years. Further, there was a view, to which he subscribed, that 
the issuance of subordinated notes was merely a device to circumvent 
the requirements of Regulations D and Q, and that any notes with 
maturities under five years should be considered as deposits and 
thereby made subject to the provisions of those regulations. 
Some members of the Board supported the adoption of such a 
position, while others were inclined to share the view of the staff 
that Regulations D and Q should not be altered at this time. 

a 6 i 
1/30/70 
-12-
,1 
Following further discussion, it was understood that the 
subject would be brought back for additional consideration after 
the Coordinating Committee had established a position. 
Deposits in foreign branches. 
In accepting deposits from 
the Bank for International Settlements, some member banks with 
foreign branches were reported to have entered into agreements that 
in effect would guarantee payment of such deposits in the United 
States if the foreign branch was precluded from making payment. 
Question was raised whether such deposits would be subject to the 
provisions of Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation 
Q, Interest on Deposits. 
In a memorandum dated January 20, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal Division 
concluded that such deposits should be subject to the interest rate 
limitations and reserve requirements of Regulations Q and D. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft interpretation to that 
effect. 
The proposed interpretation would also clarify the Board's 
position that the exemption from reserve requirements of deposits 
in foreign branches applied solely to deposits payable only at 
foreign branches. 
Following discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 
proposed interpretation, with the understanding that the staff 
would work out language to meet certain points raised by the 
Division of International Finance. A copy of the interpretation, 
as issued, is attached as Item No. 8. 

362 
1/30/70 
-13-
Branch building construction costs. In a memorandum dated 
October 15, 1969, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
recommended that the cost of the communications and records facility 
at Culpeper, Virginia, not be included in accounting for Reserve 
Bank branch building proper costs under the $60 million statutory 
limitation. 
The Division pointed out that the unallocated branch 
building fund was nearly exhausted, and noted that the economic 
climate was not one in which it would appear desirable to seek a 
change in the legislation. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum 
I 
\ 
• 
r . ; 
dated August 18, 1969, had stated that there was a substantial 
legal basis for holding that the Culpeper facility was not a branch. 
After discussion, it was agreed that the Culpeper facility 
was a unique operation and should not be considered a Reserve Bank 
branch. 
Therefore, the cost of its construction should not be 
charged against the statutory limitation because of the nature of 
its operations. 
As to the fact that the $60 million ceiling on branch 
building proper costs was being approached, it was pointed out that 
the ceiling should be raised in the relatively near future to 
accommodate urgent building projects now in the pipeline. 
However, 
it was recognized that a request for remedial legislation was not 
likely to be favorably received at this time. There was agreement 
with a suggestion that the situation be reviewed after the incoming 

3«3 
1/30/70 
-14-
Chairman has assumed his duties, with a view to determining what 
course of action would appear most appropriate. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Pennsauken Bank, 
Pennsauken, New Jersey, with Burlington Bank & Trust Company, 
Burlington, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
There is no effective competition existing between The 
Pennsauken Bank and Burlington Bank & Trust Company, and 
potential for increased competition between them is limited. 
Consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Citizens State Bank, Biscoe, North Carolina, into Bank of 
Fuquay, Fuquay-Varina, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the con-
clusion stating that there would be no adverse competitive effects. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Salary allotments. 
In a memorandum dated January 12, 1970, 
the Office of the Controller recommended that employees be extended 
the option of having payroll deductions in specified amounts, 
remitted to financial organizations of their choice for credit to 
savings accounts or for purchases of shares, with the understanding 

1/30/70 
-10-
that an employee wishing to exercise the option would be limited 
to one savings account allotment at any time, in addition to any 
authorized deductions for U.S. Savings Bonds and Notes and for the 
Thrift Plan for Employees of the Federal Reserve System. 
It was 
recommended that the Board not request reimbursement from financial 
insititutions for expenses incurred. 
Following discussion, the Controller's recommendation was 
approved unanimously. 
Credit Union arrangements. With a memorandum dated 
January 15, 1970, the Office of the Controller transmitted a request 
from the FRB Federal Credit Union that the Office of the Controller 
be authorized (1) to provide for repayment of Credit Union loans 
through payroll deductions, and (2) in conjuction with the Division 
of Data Processing, to make provision for automation of the Credit 
Union bookkeeping system. The Credit Union also requested that the 
Board contribute toward the compensation of a Credit Union manager 
if experience showed that the employment of such a person had a 
deleterious effect on net earnings of the Credit Union, with the 
result that loan and other services might have to be curtailed. 
Following disussion, the requests of the Credit Union with 
respect to repayment of loans through payroll deductions and auto-
mation of the bookkeeping system were approved unanimously. 
The 

1/30/70 
-10-
request for a contribution toward the compensation of an out-
side manager was approved in principle. 
Professional services of Judge Pierce. Unanimous approval 
was given to the payment of $15,000 to the firm of Samuel R. 
Pierce, Jr., for professional services rendered, and an additional 
amount in reimbursement for out-of-pocket expenses. A copy of the 
letter sent to Judge Pierce informing him of this action is attached 
as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/30/70 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I U I A L . 
C O W R E H P D N O E N H E 
T O 
T H E 
U O A R D 
January 30, 
1970. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 25, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank 
("FNCB"), New ork, New York, to purchase and hold 50 per cent of 
the .outstanding shares of Internationale Investitions-und 
Financier tings Bank A.G. ("IIFB"), Vienna, Austria, at a cost of 
approximately $770,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of XIFB by FNCB is granted subject to the applicable provisions of 
Section 25 and Regulation M and to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares shall be disposed of as promptly 
as practicable if XIFB shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if IIFB were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of uhe Federal Reserve 
Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of IIFB as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by IIFB 
be reported under Section 211.8(d). of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if IIFB were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

3i> 
y-i 
First National City Bank 
-2-
(4) That FNCB shall not carry on its bocks the shares of 
IIFB at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of IIFB, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to review 12 months after acquisition of these 
shares, the Board suspends the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph with the understanding that at 
that time FNCB will advise the Board of any changes in the control 
of IIFB. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1969, the for-
eign loans and investments of your bank anc its subsidiaries exceeded 
the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced fs 
soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; that tbo 
investment new being approved will be made within those guidelines; 
and thai: due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained !herein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) JCenndth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

m m l m
: 
3(J8 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
•F" THE 
t 
_ 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1/30/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C;. 20551 
A D O R E R S 
o r n c i A L 
C U W R E S C U N D C N C 
T D 
T H E 
D O A W P 
January 30, 1970 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street:, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the requests contained in letters from 
your Corporation ("BIG") dated August 8, 1969, and December 26, 1969, 
and other communications, and as promised in the Board's letters of 
August 15, 1969, January 13, 1970, and January 28, 1970, the Board 
has reviewed the waiver and/or suspension of statutory and regulatory 
requirements as applied in the Board's consent to your Corporation's 
holdings of the stocks of Rodo Investment Trust Ltd. ("Rodo"), London 
England, and Bankers Trust Finanziaria Sep.A,. ("BTF"), Rome, Italy. 
In its applications relating to both Rodo and BTF, BIG re-
quested the suspension of condition (1) insofar as it relates to the 
limitation of stock acquisitions under the General Consent to 25 per 
cent of the voting shares of any corporation when the stock acquired 
by Rodo or BTF was in relation to an attempt to develop such corpora-
tion to the point of a public share offering, provided, however, that 
the per cent of shares acquired would not exceed 50 per cent nor the 
cost over $500,000, and that the stock would be disposed of within 
five years. 
The Board has concluded that this request should not be 
granted. 
However, there is nothing to prevent Rodo or BTF from ac-
quiring up to 25 per cent of a local corporation's stock, at a cost 
of $500,000 or less, in the situations you outlined and also making 
a qualified commitment to acquire subsequently an additional amount 
of stock. Where an acquisition is of the type you specify in your 
letter, the Board believes it would be appropriate for BIG to file 
a preliminary or tentative application (even though an acquisition 
is not yet assured). Applications for acquisitions of this type can 
and will be handled in a very expeditious manner, assuming that ade-
quate information is furnished. 
BIC also requested that both Rodo and BTF be permitted to 
acquire stocks in connection with merger or acquisition operations 

Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
3G!) 
and went on to state that the more prevalent practice did not involve 
the taking of title, but it was not: uncommon in a particular case that 
it may be necessary to take title "as an intermediary." 
From this and 
other information furnished, the Board understands that such acquisi-
tions, which wi'.ll be of short duration, will in essence be for the ac-
count of other parties and not of Rodo or BTF and, furthermore, that 
the operation will not be at the risk of Rod'.? or BTF, even though their 
resources may be utilized, since such utilization will create an at 
least equal obligation to Rodo or BTF on the part of the real party 
at interest. 
The Board lias concluded that acquisitions of stocks coming 
within the understandings in the immediately preceding paragraph are 
essentially fiduciary in character, and woul.l be permissible for Rodo 
and BTF without regard to the limitations and requirements set forth 
in Section 211.3(a) and (b) of Regulation K. 
However, in view of the 
unusual character of these operations and because of their purported 
rarity in regard to Rodo's and BTF1s general business, the Board will 
expect full details in regard to them in any reports called for under 
conditions (2.) or (3) in the Board's letters of consent. 
In accordance with BIC's further request, the Board grants 
its consent for BIC to continue to hold the stock of Rodo (and in-
directly of Rodo's subsidiaries) after Roclo, directly or indirectly 
through its subsidiaries, (1) acquires additional shares of stock of 
Bufay Ltd„, Cook and Watts Ltd., and Metropole Industries Ltd., pro-
vided BIC's indirect investment in these stocks shall not exceed the 
equivalent of $000,000, $750,000, and $750,000, respectively, and that 
any such additional shares shall be acquired within two years of the 
date of this letter, and (2) issues additional unsecured obligations 
(with maturities in excess of one year) within five years of the date 
of this letter and has outstanding at any one time no mere than the 
equivalent of $12,000,000 of sucli obligations. 
Approval is also granted 
for the purchase and holding of shares of Duray Ltd. in excess of 10 per 
cent of B C's capital and surplus. 
The consent for the acquisition of 
the additional shares is granted on the understanding that the purpose 
is to preserve the value of Rodo's current shareholding in these com-
panies and is not basically for the purpose cf increasing Rodo's in-
vestments therein. 
In accordance with BIC's request, the Board also grants its 
consent for BIC to continue to hold, directly or indirectly, the stock 
of BTF after BTF issues up to the equivalent of $10,000,000 of obliga-
tions with maturities in excess of one year, provided such obligations 
are issued within five years from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A„ Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3 7 0 
Item No. 3 
1/30/70 
I 
,. ( 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
1 
100 per cent of the voting shares of The ' 
Logan County Bank, Bellefontaine, Ohio. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, 
Ohio, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval 
the acquisition of up to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The 
W a n County Bank, Bellefontaine, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
Notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks for 
the State of Ohio and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on October 24, 1969 (34 Federal Register 17313) 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 30th day of January, 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governor Brimmer. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

o < 
BbMb 6i GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE LOGAN COUNTY BANK, BELLEFONTAINE, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant") a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of up 
to 100 per cent of the voting shares of The Logan County Bank, 
Beliefontaine, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio, 
and his views and recommendation were requested. The Superintendent 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

373 
-2-
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of 
trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
, is the largest bank holding company and the third largest banking 
organization located in the State of Ohio. It operates 22 banking 
subsidiaries, with total deposits of approximately $1 billion,-^ 
in a 21 county area in central Ohio. Applicant holds 6 per cent 
of the deposits held by all banking ogranizations in Ohio, and its 
control of State deposits would increase only a negligible degree 
as a result of the present proposal. 
Bank operates two offices in Logan County, Ohio. It is 
the second largest bank located in Logan County, holding deposits of 
approximately $9 million, which represent approximately 21 per cent 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, and refer to insured 
commercial banks. 

374 
-8-
°f the deposits held by all banking organizations in the t ounty. 
Applicant operates subsidiary banks in Hardin and Union Counties, 
Which are contiguous to Logan County, on the north and east, respec-
tively. Applicant's Hardin County subsidiary, The Kenton Savings 
Bank, with deposits of approximately $11 million, is located 
aPproximately 22 miles from Bank's main office in Beliefontaine. 
The two banks maintain branches only nine miles apart. However there 
a re no roads which directly link the communities served by these 
branches; the flow of commerce in each community is county-oriented, 
and each county represents a distinct banking market. For these 
Masons, it appears that there is no significant competition presently 
listing between the banks. 
Similarly, Applicant's Union County subsidiary, The First 
National Bank of Marysville ($15 million deposits), serves an area 
SeParate from that presently served by Bank. Its office is located 
miles from Bellefontaine. However, Bank has authority to open 
an additional branch in East Liberty, Logan County, which is located 
aPProximately 15 miles distant from the headquarters of The First 
National Bank of Marysville. Prospects of increased growth and 
development of the intervening area, including the proposed estab-
lishment of a research center, and consequent population growth, 
Suggests a possibility that some competition might develop between 
these two banks in the future. Logan County and Union County will 
likely remain as separate banking markets, however, and prohibition 

375 
-8-
of de novo branching across county lines under Ohio law will limit 
the amount of future competition likely to develop between these 
institutions. In view of this, and in view of the competition faced 
by Bank and Applicant's Union County subsidiary from other banks 
within their respective markets, it appears that there would be no 
significant adverse effect on potential competition resulting from 
consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
As previously stated, Bank is the second largest bank 
located in Logan County, and holds approximately 21 per cent of 
county deposits. Consummation of the proposed transaction will 
likely increase competition between Bank and the larger bank in 
Logan County, Beliefontaine National Bank (deposits $12.1 million). 
No adverse effect on any other bank is reasonably foreseen as likely 
to result from Applicant's proposal. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not result in a monopoly 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt 
to monopolize the business of banking in any area, and would not 
substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor 
restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition and management of Applicant are regarded as 
satisfactory and its prospects are favorable. These conclusions 
aPPly as well to Applicant's subsidiaries. Bank's financial condition 
is satisfactory, its management adequate, and its prospects satisfactory. 

-5-
37G 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are therefore 
regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on 
customers of Applicant's subsidiaries. The record before the Board 
indicates that the major bank service requirements arising in Logan 
County are presently served by existing facilities. However, the 
commercial development in prospect within Logan County reasonably 
suggests the need for considerably larger credit accommodations 
within the County. The proposed affiliation of Bank with Applicant 
will better enable Bank to serve these needs both directly and 
indirectly through participations with other subsidiaries of Applicant. 
Additionally, Applicant, through Bank, intends to improve and expand 
a number of banking services to residents of the market such as data 
processing, investment advisory, trust, and international banking 
services. Considerations, relating to the convenience and needs 
factors, therefore, weigh in favor of approval of the transaction. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
January 30, 1970 

377 
Item No. 4 
1/30/70 
- UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON3 D.C# 
In the Matter of the Application of 
LONG ISLAND TRUST COMPANY 
for approval of merger with 
Bank of Westbury Trust Company 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U8S„C. 1328(c)), an application by Long Island Trust 
Company, Garden City, New York, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger into that 
bank of Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New Yorkt under the 
charter and title of Long Island Trust Company. Notice of the proposed 
merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to 
said Act.. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 

378 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 30th day of January 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman liartin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sherrill. 
/signed/ Kenneth A, Xenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY LONG ISLAND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
BANK OF WESTBURY TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Long Island Trust Company, Garden City, New York 
("Long Island Trust"), with total deposits of $237 million, has 
applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for 
the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with 
Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New York ("Westbury Bank"), 
1/ 
which has total deposits of $37.5 million. 
The banks would merge 
under the charter and name of Long Island Trust, which is a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the 
four offices of Westbury Bank would become branches of Long Island Trust, 
increasing the number of its offices to 24. 
Competition. - Both banks are headquartered in Nassau County, 
which forms a part of the New York metropolitan area. About 50 per cent 
°f the working residents of the county commute to work in New York City. 
There are 54 banks in the metropolitan area, but the 11 largest of 
these hold nearly 93 per cent of the deposits. Long Island Trust, 
with .3 per cent of area deposits, ranks nineteenth in this respect; 
following the acquisition of Westbury Bank, Long Island Trust would hold 
1/ Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 

3 S O 
-2-
I 
I 
: 
Li'' 
less than *4 per ceht bf the deposits, but would rank seventeenth among 
area banks. 
Long Island Trust operates its head office and three of its 
12 Nassau County branches in Garden City (population 25,000); the bank 
also operates seven branches in Suffolk County. Westbury Bank's main 
office and two of its branches are in Westbury Village (population 15,000); 
the bank also operates a branch in Williston Park, 3.5 miles west of its 
head office. Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank hold 7.4 per cent and 
1.4 per cent, respectively, of the deposits held by all commercial banking 
offices in Nassau County. 
The main offices of Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank are 
3.5 miles apart; their nearest offices are only 1.1 miles apart. The 
main office of Long Island Trust and three of its branches, and all four 
offices of Westbury Bank, are within about a 5-mile radius of Westbury, 
in central Nassau County, Westbury Bank derives the bulk of its business 
from central Nassau County, and Long Island Trust derives a significant 
volume of its business from the same area. 
Long Island Trust, with 23.5 per cent of area deposits, ranks 
second in this respect among the 11 banks that operate 40 offices in 
central Nassau County; following the acquisition of Westbury Bank, 
Long Island Trust would rank first in deposits, holding more than 
30 per cent of the area's total. 
The merger would remove home-office-protection from Westbury 
and open the community to de novo branching; at the same time, it would 
eliminate meaningful competition between Long Island Trust and Westbury 

3 S i 
-3-
Bank, and enhance the already significant position of Long Island Trust 
in central Nassau County. 
The effect of the proposed merger on competition would be 
adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank 
are reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - It does not appear 
that there is any important need for banking services in the Westbury 
community that is not now being met with reasonable convenience by 
Westbury Bank, Long Island Trust and other banking offices in central 
Nassau County, a number of which are branches of large banks that are 
based in New York Qity, Further, the proposed merger would eliminate 
Westbury Bank as a convenient alternative source of banking services. 
The transaction would have the advantage of opening Westbury to cte novo 
branching by outside banks, but that could be accomplished through 
I 
acquisition of Westbury Bank by an institution not now competing in 
central Nassau County. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
merger of Long Island Trust and Westbury Bank would have an adverse 
effect on competition, without offsetting benefits under the 
convenience and needs factor. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be denied, 
I 
January 30, 1970. 

3 s 2 
Item No. 5 
1/30/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I 
WASHINGTON, D„ C. 
— 
— 
— 
— — — — - 
— 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED, 
1 
Richmond, Virginia, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Manassas Bank, N.A., Manassas, Virginia, 
a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
I 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Virginia Bankshares In-
corporated, Richmond, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Manassas 
fiank, N.A., Manassas, Virginia, a proposed new bank into which will be 
Merged The Peoples National Bank of Manassas, Manassas, Virginia, under 
the charter of the former and the title of United Virginia Bank/Peoples 
National. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 

383 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 23, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13631), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition, A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the BoardTs 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 30th day of January 1970, 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 

384 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
MANASSAS BANK, N.A., MANASSAS, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Manassas 
Bank, N.A., Manassas, Virginia, a proposed new bank into which would 
be merged The Peoples National Bank of Manassas, Manassas, Virginia 
("Peoples National" or "Bank"), under the charter of the former and the 
title of United Virginia Bank/Peoples National. 
Applicant controls 10 banks with total deposits of $940 million.— 
Peoples National has $18 million in deposits. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
o f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
X/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted. 

385 
-2-
Statutorycgnsiderations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed ac-
quisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The nine largest 
banking organizations in Virginia, each with deposits of more than 
$100 million, together control 65.3 per cent of the total deposits held 
by all insured commercial banks located in the State, Applicant is one 
of six bank holding companies operating in Virginia, and is the largest 
banking organization in the State, controlling 13.7 per cent of such 
deposits. Applicant^ acquisition of Peoples National would increase 
its percentage of control of State deposits to 14o0 per cent„ 

38G 
-3-
Peoples National's five offices are all located in Manassas, 
in Prince William County. Its service area consists of Manassas and its 
environs and the nearby towns of Haymarket, Gainesville, and Nokesville. 
In terms of local deposits, it ranks second in size among four banks in 
Prince William County, However, two of the competing banks are sub-
sidiaries of holding companies and the third is the largest independent 
bank in Virginia. The four banks operate 33 offices in the County. In 
its service area Peoples National is the largest bank in terms of deposits 
and competes with nine offices of the tx^o holding company subsidiaries. 
Consummation of the proposal would not reduce the number of local banking 
alternatives. 
As will be seen from the discussion below, Bank is not a 
strong competitor in the rapidly expanding Manassas area. In addition 
to the competition offered by the two holding company subsidiaries, Bank 
competes with two savings and loan associations. Consummation of the 
proposal can reasonably be expected to increase Bank's competitive 
Position, thus affording more expanded services to this growing area, 
and more meaningful competition for Bank's principal banking competitors -
the holding company subsidiaries operating in Prince William County. 
The closest office of any of Applicant's subsidiaries to 
Manassas is 16 miles away, in Vienna, although the same subsidiary is 
about to open another office in Fairfax, some 13 miles from Manassas. 

-4-
The only other office of a subsidiary of Applicant in the Northern 
Virginia area is located in Alexandria, 30 miles from Manassas. The 
volume of deposits and loans of Applicant's subsidiaries which originates 
in Peoples National's service area and of Peoples National which originates 
in the service areas of Applicant's subsidiaries is relatively small, 
ranging downwards from 3.7 per cent in the case of total loans of customers 
of Peoples National who reside in the service areas of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries. This volume of business is not viewed as indicative of sig-
nificant competition between the Bank and affiliates of Applicant. 
Regarding the probable effect of this proposal on potential 
competition, the United States Department of Justice, responding to the 
Board's notice to it of the pendency of this application, concluded that 
"this acquisition would have a significantly adverse effect upon potential 
competition within Prince William County, as well as more broadly in the 
state." 
The Department's response was transmitted to the Applicant, 
which was invited to, and did, reply thereto. In reaching its decision 
the Board has considered the views of both the Department and the 
Applicant. 
The Department noted that, if the proposed acquisition is 
approved, Applicant, the largest banking organization in the State, would 
e^tend the geographic range of its activities into Prince William County, 
°n the edge of the Washington metropolitan area. It asserted that the 
acquisition would have a significantly adverse effect upon potential 
competition because (1) a "strong local competitor, the last remaining 

388 
-8-
within a significant and growing market" would be eliminated and the 
already high barriers to new entry into the County would be increased; 
(2) if all three banks headquartered in Prince William County were bank 
holding company affiliates, they would be in a position to expand 
rapidly and preempt new office sites so as to make more difficult de 
jiovo entry by new banks or other holding companies; and (3) it would 
eliminate Applicant as the most likely entrant which might establish a 
new bank in the Manassas area. 
Applicant, in reply, disputed the contention that its proposal 
would eliminate a strong local competitor, and asserted that, on the 
contrary, affiliation of Bank with Applicant would strengthen Bank's 
competitive position, making it better able to compete with the larger 
banking organizations now serving the area. In addition, Applicant 
stressed several recent developments which make it clear that Bank will 
not long be the only independent competitor in the area, and which, 
because they have taken place during a period in x^hich Applicant's pro-
posal has been a matter of public knowledge, cast doubt also on the 
assertion that consummation of the proposal would significantly increase 
listing barriers to new entry. During the five months since the present 
application was filed, a newly chartered independent bank has been 
granted a Certificate of Authority to do business, and plans to open 
approximately March 1 in quarters now under construction in Manassas. 
A second State charter has been granted to a group of Manassas business-
men; the organization of their proposed new bank is now in a preliminary 

389 
-6-
stage. A charter has also been granted to a group of individuals desiring 
to open a new bank in Woodbridge, in northern Prince William County, 
from which location it would be legally possible to branch jde novo into 
the Manassas area. And finally, Virginia National Bank, the largest bank 
in Virginia, having recently consummated a merger with a bank which 
theretofore was the only bank in Prince William County not having an 
office in Manassas, has applied for supervisory approval to move one of 
the offices of the merged bank to Manassas. 
In view of these developments, it appears likely that the 
Manassas area, in the near future, will be served by three of the largest 
banking organizations in the State, and by at least one, and possibly two, 
independent banks, in addition to Peoples National. If the proposed new 
bank in Woodbridge is organized, it would have the legal ability to branch 
into Manassas. There is thus a potential for seven competing banking 
organizations in Manassas and Prince William County, taking into account 
only those organizations now competing in the area and those which have 
announced plans to do so. 
It is true, nevertheless, that acquisition of Bank is not 
necessary in order for Applicant to achieve entry into the area, and its 
pursuit of that method of entry would foreclose competition which could 
arise if it were to enter the area through the establishment and ac-
quisition of a new bank. That consideration might be significant if 
Peoples National were, or were likely without assistance to become, a 
strong local competitor. In fact, however, as earlier mentioned and 

390 
-8-
for reasons hereinafter more fully discussed, it is the Board's view 
that Bank is not presently a significant competitive force in the area, 
and, in the absence of a change in its present operational policies, 
is unlikely to become such. Therefore, while Applicant's proposal would 
eliminate it as a possible future competitor in the area, it would 
immediately and greatly increase Bank's competitive impact on the market. 
While the acquisition would lessen by one the number of potential com-
petitors in the area, it would increase by one the number of significant 
competitors actually serving the area. In that light, and in view of 
the persuasive evidence that other potential competitors will not be 
dissuaded by Applicant's acquisition of Bank, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal will not substantially lessen com-
petition, restrain trade, or tend to create a monopoly in banking in 
Manassas, Prince William County, or any other area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, and that of its subsidiary banks, is 
regarded as generally satisfactory. Its prospects are regarded as 
favorable, as are those of its subsidiary banks. The management of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks is considered capable and experienced 
and in all respects satisfactory * 
Peoples Nationalfs financial condition is regarded as sound, 
and its management as experienced and capable. However, the Bank has 
experienced slow deposit growth; and under present management its prospects 
in this respect seem limited, particularly in view of its conservative 

391 
-8-
lending policied and apparent lack oi: initiative in seeking out the new 
I'M ; WMi " i&A'oSb^C Jj . ggK 
SxS* ' 'H i I 
' 
i . 
i 
*' t ; 
business being generated by the locMl economy. Future prospects would 
i 
be considerably enhanced by affiliation with Applicant, and considerations 
under this factor provide weight toward approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of communities involved. - Peoples National 
is located in an area that is experiencing rapid economic expansion both 
as a suburban residential community of the Washington metropolitan area, 
and as an accessible and otherwise attractive site for the development 
of light industry. However, as the record indicates, Peoples National 
is making little effort to meet the expanding needs of the community. In 
the last calendar year, deposits grew by less than 4 per cent and loan 
volume remained almost constant. In recent years the ratio of total 
loans to deposits has declined from 63 per cent at the end of 1966 to 
48 per cent as of October 
1969. 
Applicant, in its appraisal of the present and future credit 
needs of the communities served by Bank, proposes to offer a wide array 
of lending services not presently provided by Bank, such as accounts 
receivable financing, floor planning, commercial financing, and financing 
for small business and for agricultural and industrial development. 
Through its affiliates, Applicant will also assist Bank in providing 
construction loans to real estate developers, and in handling larger 
lines of credit through participations. 
The Board concludes that the availability of Applicant's 
management and capital resources will enable the Bank better to meet 

-4-
the expanding needs of tke CQtoitiiihity and will provide an alternative 
source of full banking services. Therefore, considerations with regard 
to the convenience and needs factor lend substantial weight toward approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
January 30, 1970 

393 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROij.MisGN, I1AISEL, AND BRIMMER 
We believe that the effect of the proposed transaction upon 
competition would be seriously adverse.' In our view, neither the con-
venience and needs of the community to be served nor financial factors 
relating to the institutions involved overcome the anticompetitive effect 
of the proposal. 
The Manassas area is experiencing rapid economic growth, both 
as a residential community and as a site for light industry, and it is 
conceded by the majority that it offers an attractive market for any new 
entrant. As the largest banking organization in the State, with an active 
history of external growth, Applicant is one of the most likely entrants 
into this market. That independent banks have been, or are being, organized 
in this market does not alter this fact; it merely reinforces the conclu-
sion that the market is an attractive one for new entry. Consummation of 
the proposal will also foreclose the possibility of entry by a smaller 
banking organization through merger with, or acquisition of, Peoples National. 
The proposal would also eliminate direct competition between 
Peoples National and Applicant's subsidiary banks. While competition be-
tween them presently is not substantial, given the area's potential for 
economic growth, the potential for developing competition is a significant 
factor. The fact that Applicant advertises extensively as a holding com-
pany in the area gives increased weight to this factor. In addition, 
approval of the application increases Applicant's State-wide deposit con-
centration, which is already high, and results in a very substantial in-
crease in deposit concentration in bank holding companies in Prince William 
County and the Manassas area. 

334 
-2-
The majority recognizes the existence of anticompetitive 
considerations (although it accords them less weight than we do), but 
finds, in effect, that they are outweighed by advantages related to 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served and the poten-
tial liberalizing effect on Peoples National's conservative lending 
practices which the proposed affiliation would allegedly bring about. 
We believe that the asserted advantages are largely illusory. It is 
true that Peoples National has been conservatively operated since 1966. 
However, this fact is explained primarily by the much less cautious 
operating practices that preceded present management in the Bank, and 
reasonably fostered the present conservative operating policies, 
particularly with respect to credit extensions0 
Further, under these circumstances, the conservative policies 
of the present management may indeed be appropriate, and in any event, 
should not necessarily be taken as indicating overly cautious manage-
ment. In regard to earnings, Peoples National's ratio of earnings to 
assets for 1968 was considerably above the average ratio for banks in 
the Federal Reserve District in which it is located. Its deposit 
growth has been comparable to that of other banks in the Manassas market 
and the banking services which it offers, apart from the rather conserva-
tive loan policy referred to, appear to us to be satisfactory. Persons 
in the Manassas area who seek more specialized services than those 
offered by Peoples National do not have far to go. Two other holding 

395 
-3-
company subsidiaries opeVat;e hine offices in that area and one of 
Applicant's subsidiaries has an office 16 miles away and is about 
to open another one even closer* 
In view of the substantial anticompetitive aspects of the 
proposal and the lack of any balancing advantage to either the com-
munity or the institutions involved, we would deny the application. 
January 30, 1970. 

39(i 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L . R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 2Q55I 
Item No. 6 
1/30/70 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
January 30, 1970. 
The Honorable Abraham A. Ribicoff, Chairman, 
Subcommittee on Executive Reorganization. 
Committee on Government Operations, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of December 17, 1969, for 
a report from the Board on four bills to establish an Office or 
Bureau of Consumer Affairs. 
The bills are S. 2045, S. 3097, S. 3165, 
and S. 3240. 
The bills are similar. The most recent one (S. 3240) would 
establish i:i the Executive Office of the President an Office of 
Consumer Affairs headed by a Director to be appointed by the President 
with the advice and consent of the Senate. 
The functions of the 
Office would be to advise the President on all matters affecting con-
sumer interests, coordinate Federal programs and activities affecting 
consumers, and assure that the interests of consumers are considered 
by other Federal agencies. 
The bill, briefly, would also establish a 
Consumer Advisory Council to advise the Director of the Office of 
Consumer Affairs, and a Consumer Protection Division in the Department 
of Justice io represent the interests of consumers in administrative 
and court proceedings. Unlike the bill S. 860, as to which the Board 
reported favorably to your Subcommittee under date of March 29, 1969, 
none of the four bills on which a report is now desired would transfer 
to the Office of Consumer Affairs functions relative to consumers at 
present exercised by certain existing departments and agencies. 
Among the functions that would be transferred under S. 860 are those 
assigned to the Board in 1968 to prescribe regulations to implement 
the Truth in Lending Act (Public Law 90-321), and to enforce the Act 
as to State-chartered banks that are members of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem. 
As our report to you on S. 860 indicated, there have been 
several recent legislative "proposals that would assign to the Board 
additional regulatory responsibility in the consumer protection 
field. 
The Board consistently has stressed in reporting to or 

3-97 
The Honorable Abraham A. Ribicoff 
-2-
testifying before committees of Congress that the assignment of 
further duties to it in regard to the protection of consumers is 
not operationally or functionally related to the performance of 
our primary responsibilities in the field of monetary policy. 
It 
was the Board1 s view that the es tabli:;hn:c-n! of a Federal agency 
that would specialize in consumer prot.eecion and to which would be 
transferred various functions in that field now dispersed among a 
number of agencies would be a sound approach in the public 
interest. 
Accordingly, the Board would urge that there be added to 
such legislation provisions similar to thoio of S. 860 that would 
transfer to the Office of Consumer Affairs regulatory and other 
nppropr.ate functions in the consumer protection field now exer-
cised b, various Federal agencies and Departments. 
The Board would 
urge particularly that the provisions for transfer include the 
Board's; regulatory function (as distinct from its enforcement: 
responsibility) under the Truth in Lending Act. 
This is consistent 
with the rectv v.nenda tion made by the Board in a Report sent to 
Congress under that Act on January 9, 1970. V?it:h an amendment of 
this nature Joc the transfer of functions the Board would support 
a measure along the lines of S. 3240. 
The to arc] is not unmindful of the arguments that have 
been made in i'avor of omitting any provisions for the transfer of 
functions fror.i legislation like the four bills in question. 
The 
Board believe;,, however, that the benefits that would ensue to the 
public from having an agency that would be expert in the field of 
consumer protection, including the exercise of regulatory functions, 
would outweigh the reasons that have been gi.ven for not placing air 
regulatory fur.ctions in the proposed Office of Consumer Affairs. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) WmB McC. Martin, Jr. 
YJm. HeC, Martin, Jr. 

\<t 
i3S 
B O A R D 
• F G D V E R N • R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
G F 
T H E 
Item No. 7 
1/30/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A O D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 30, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. John D. Johnson as an Assistant Vice President 
assigned to the Helena Branch at the rate of $17,000 per 
annum for the period February 1 through December 31, 1970. 
This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as 
reported in your letter of January 23, 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Item No. 8 
1/30/70 
TITLE 12.—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS; 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
[Reg. D; QJ 
Deposits in Foreign Branches 
§ 204.112 Deposits in foreign branches guaranteed by domestic office 
of member bank. 
(a) In accepting deposits at branches abroad, seme member 
banks are reported to have entered into agreements from time to time with 
depositors that in effect guarantee payment of such deposits in the United 
States if the foreign branch is precluded from making payment. 
The 
question has arisen whether such deposits arc subject io Parts 204 and 
217 (Regulations D and Q), and this interpretation is intended as a 
clarification. 
(b) Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act provides that the 
limitations prescribed therein on rates of interest paid on deposits are 
not applicable to deposits of a member bank "payable only at an office 
thereof located outside of the States of the United States and the District 
of Columbia" (12 U.S.C. 371a). The Board ruled in 1913 that the require-
ments of section 19 as to reserves to be carried by member banks also do 
not apply to foreign branches (.1918 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1123). 

400 
-2-
(c) In the Board's judgment, the applicability of these 
exemptions from Regulation Q and Regulation D is limited to deposits 
in foreign branches as to which the depositor is entitled, under his 
agreement with the bank, to demand payment only outside the United 
States, regardless of special circumstances. Said exemptions are 
intended principally to enable foreign branches of U.S. banks to 
compete on a more nearly equal basis with other banks in foreign 
countries in accordance with the laws and regulations of those countries * 
A customer who makes a deposit: that is payable solely at a foreign branch 
assumes whatever risk may exist that the foreign country might impose 
restrictions on withdrawals, VJhen payment of a deposit in a foreign 
branch is guaranteed by a promise of payment at a banking office in the 
United States if not paid at the foreign office, the depositor no longer 
assumes such risk, but enjoys substantially the same rights as if the 
deposit had been made,in a U.S. office of the bank. To assure the 
effectiveness of Regulations J) and Q and to prevent evasions thereof, 
the Board considers that such guaranteed foreign-branch deposits must 
be subject to those regulations. 
(d) Accordingly, a deposit in a foreign branch of a member 
bank that is guaranteed by a domestic office is subject to the interest 
rate limitations and reociva pcrcentngos of Regulations Q and D the 
same as if the deposit had been made in the domestic officc. 
(e) This interpretation is not designed in any respect to 
prevent: the head office of a U.S. bank from repaying borrowings from, 
malting advances to, or supplying capital funds to its foreign branches. 

5 217.146 Deposits at foreign branches guaranteed by domestic 
office of member bank,. 
For text of this interpretation see § 204.112 of this 
subchapter. 
(1?. U.S.C. 24G(i) . Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C, 
371a, 371b, and 461.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 30, 1970, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
401 
[SEAL] 
\ 
\ 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
. • ; • . . 
or the 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
1/30/70 
• ••'•-'•.••.•.iCCijA^* 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. P.0551 
. •. • 
: : : 
*• 
-
* 
r!frnv •/£• 
1 ' I i ' > ' ••• 
"5* * 
A D O I I t t B 
O r r i C I A U 
C O R f i E B P O N O C N C i : 
' , r / • 
' " - V ^ • 
TO T H E 
OOA<tU 
February 3, 1970. 
i 
The Honorable Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., 
j. 
280 Park Avenue, 
New York. New York. 
10017 
Dear Judge Pierce: 
This refers to the bill for legal services and 
disbursements submitted by you under date of November 12, 1969 
and to your letter of January 26, 1970 discussing that bill and 
your understanding of your contractual relationship with the 
/ioard. 
The Board's understanding of the contractual basis 
pursuant to which legal cervices were to be rendered by your 
law firm, and by you in particular, and the related terms and 
mount of compensation therefor, were the subject of the March 7, 
1969 letter from Mr. E. J. Johnson, Director of the Board's 
Division of Personnel Administration, and of subsequent telephone 
conversations between you and Governor Sherri'll, who was acting 
on the Board's behalf in this matter. 
Your letter of January 26 
and certain conversations with Governor Sherrill reflect a lack 
of mutual understanding and meeting of the minds with respect to 
the essential terms of your employment. 
In these circumstances, 
the Board agreed to a redetermination of your fee, including 
related expcases, 
Upon review of the services rendered by you, a 
chronology of which was contained in your October 31, 1969 
statement and discussed in detail in your November 12 letter, 
and considering also the services of your office associate and 
supporting start, and in consideration of the professional skill 
employed in the drafting of the now adopted Policy on Unioniza-
tion and Collective Bargaining for the Federal Reserve Banks, 
the Board has concluded that the bill submitted by your firm for 
the legal and related administrative services rendered to the 
Federal Reserve System in the period February 3 to October 31, 1969 

The Honorable Samuel K. Pierce, Jr. 
-2-
4 0 3 
to be fair and equitable. Accordingly, the Board has directed 
payment of $15,000 to your firm for professional services 
rendered, the amount of your bill, and an additional sum of 
$475.38 covering out-of-pocket expenses incurred by you as 
detailed in your October 31, 1969 statement to the Board. 
The enclosed check in the amount of $15,475.38 represents full 
payment as stated. 
The Board is appreciative of the thoroughly pro-
fessional treatment accorded the many novel and difficult 
problems encountered in the course of your representation of 
the Board and the Reserve Banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 
