Minutes for 
A P r i l 21> 
1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
0 . • •• • • . 
> 1 R, Iri , 
V (I.-
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

13 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 21, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Winkler, Secretary, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Cleaver and Ducy, Economists, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra, Statistical Analyst, Division of 
Data Processing 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San 
Francisco on April 17, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 

1 3 ' 
4/21/69 
-2-
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
1 
Investment Corporation, New York, New 
York, granting consent to its acquisi-
tion of the stock of Compania Colombiana 
de Financiamentos S.A., Bogota, Colombia. 
Letter to all Federal Reserve Banks trans- 
2 
mitting revised call report forms and a 
preliminary instruction booklet for use of 
State member banks at the spring call date. 
The covering memorandum from Mr. Veenstra relating to Item 
_No. 2 discussed differences remaining in the forms and instructions 
of the three Federal banking agencies. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Anson Bank and Trust 
Company, Wadesboro, North Carolina, with American Bank and Trust 
Company, Monroe, North Carolina, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion 
stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Mutual Bank & Trust Company, Marshville, North Carolina, 
with Security Bank and Trust Company, Salisbury, North Carolina, was 
Approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the conclusion stating: 

1350 
4/21/69 
-3-
Because it would eliminate a small amount of competi-
tion between Mutual Bank & Trust Company, Marshville, and 
Security Bank and Trust Company, Salisbury, the effect of 
the proposed merger on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Peoples State Bank of Bronson, Bronson, Michigan, into First 
National Bank of Quincy, Quincy, Michigan, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that the proposed merger would have no adverse effect on 
competition. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of the assets and assumption of the liabilities of the 
Windsor Heights branch of Bankers Trust Company, Des Moines, Iowa, by 
Bankers Trust Company of Windsor Heights, Windsor Heights, Iowa, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the conclusion stating that the proposed transaction 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Lincoln National Bank, Santa Rosa, California, into Common-
wealth National Bank, San Francisco, California, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating: 
There is virtually no competition existing between 
Commonwealth National Bank, San Francisco, California, 
and Lincoln National Bank, Santa Rosa, California. The 
Commonwealth National Bank is a subsidiary of Morris Plan 
Company, San Francisco, which institution has an office in 

4/21/69 
-4-
Sarita Rosa and competes to some extent with Lincoln National 
Bank. The overall effect of the transaction would be 
slightly adverse. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
4/21/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 21, 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022. 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 4, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold 100 per cent of the common stock of Compania Colombiana 
de Financiamentos S.A. ("Coifin"), Bogota, Colombia, at a cost of 
approximately $470,000, provided that shares in the amount of approx-
imately $350,000 are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of Coifin by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock of Colfin if Colfin at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent 
of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, 
or if Colfin establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in Colombia or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would not 
be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Colfin as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Colfin 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if Colfin were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

Fi rst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Colfin at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Colfin,. after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
— 
, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by Colfin in Colombia 
in the currency of that country. 
It is requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles 
of Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of Colfin. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(4) 
S u s n p n d S 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1354 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. p. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/21/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 25, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The required supply of copies of the following forms 
are being forwarded to your Bank under separate cover for use 
of member State banks and their affiliates in submitting reports 
as of the next call date. A copy of each form is attached. 
Form FR 105 (Call No. 191, Revised April 1969), Report 
of Condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e (Revised April 1969), Publisher's copy of 
Report of Condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised April 1969), Publisher's copy 
of Report of Condition of State member banks 
Form FR 220 (Revised September 1966), Report of affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's copy 
of report of affiliate. 
Form FR 105 a (Preliminary-revised for April 1969), 
Instructions for the preparation of Reports of Condition 
by State member banks. 
With respect to all recent spring and fall call dates, 
this report is in the short form which excludes the detailed 
schedules of loans, investments, and deposits required at the 
June and December call dates. 
The enclosed forms for reporting member State bank 
condition information as of the spring call date have been 
revised to reflect new requirements announced in February 1969. 

JlJVAJ 
-2-
The "Announcement of Revision of Bank Condition Reports and 
Annual Reports of Income" by the Federal Bank Supervisory 
Agencies notified all insured commercial banks of changes in 
reporting requirements relating to accounting standards, con-
solidation of subsidiaries, and to the content of certain items 
on the face of the report of condition. Important changes in 
procedures for publication of condition reports which were also 
announced become effective with this call date. 
Detailed instructions in preliminary form relating to 
the Condition items on the face of the report and the FDIC as-
sessment items on the back are enclosed. Changes in publication 
procedures are also covered in the new instruction booklet. These 
instructions do not attempt to prescribe specific methodology with 
respect to accounting procedures--within the bounds of reasonableness, 
internal accounting methods remain the province and responsibility 
of individual banks. As in the past, established channels for ex-
change of information with the Reserve Banks should be used for 
clarification of specific questions. 
No change has been made in the requirements for Reports 
of Affiliates FR 220 and FR 220a which were contained in the previous 
instruction booklet. Detailed instructions as to the information 
required and circumstances for waiver of Reports of Affiliate are 
aiso printed on the reverse of Form FR 220. 
Member State banks should be advised that changes in the 
requirement for the breakdown of real estate mortgage credit in Loan 
Schedule A of the Report of Condition will become effective with June 
1969 reports. The revised Schedule will require reports of real estate 
mortgages on residential properties to be subdivided between 1-4 family 
residential properties (by type of mortgage as at present) and real 
estate mortgages on multi-family (5 or more) residential properties 
with a further breakdown by type of mortgage as between those insured 
by FHA and those not insured by FHA(conventional). The final version 
°f the instruction booklet will be mailed well before the June call 
date when the detailed schedules will again be required. 
Suggestions 
for clarification or other improvement of the instruction booklet to 
be reflected in the final version would be welcome. 
Reports will not be tabulated--as for other recent spring 
and fall call dates. Present plans are that June 1969 reports of 
all insured banks will be processed by the FDIC in Washington. 
Instructions for editing, keypunching, and preliminary processing 
°f member State and national bank reports at the Reserve Banks will 
available in the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
.' ssi-yit-n-i • WAtsfoi 
/ 
Kenneth A. Ken/on, 
Deputy Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
