MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 29, 1972 

1681 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 29, 1972, The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Treasury debt celling. Members of the staff commented on the 
prospects for enactment of new debt ceiling legislation prior to July 1, 
1972, when the current ceiling was scheduled to revert to its permanent 
level of $400 billion. The staff outlined the contingency plans that 

1G82 
6/29/72 
-2-
were being worked out with Treasury officials. The plans under 
consideration would provide temporary System financing for the Trea-
sury should proposed legislation calling for a $450 billion ceiling 
fail to be enacted. Such financing would involve System purchases of 
up to $5 billion of Treasury securities directly from the Treasury 
before July 1 and would require an amendment to paragraph 2 of the 
Federal Open Market Committee's continuing authority directive with 
respect to domestic open market operations. 
Members of the Board discussed various technical aspects of 
the contingency plans, including the types and timing of any purchases. 
Arrangements to inform the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents currently 
serving on the Federal Open Market Committee and the procedure for 
obtaining their votes were also reviewed. It was the consensus of 
the Board members present that, in the event of a favorable vote by 
the Committee, the action should be published in the Committee's 
record of policy actions. 
Governors Robertson and Daane reported to the Board the status 
of Desk intervention or nonintervention in the pound sterling on behalf 
of the System and of the Treasury. 
Disaster assistance. Mr. Ring briefed the Board on the actions 
taken by various Government agencies and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
in the light of the emergency conditions resulting from the recent 
hurricane. Mr. Leavitt reported that the Small Business Administration 

1683 
6/29/72 
-3-
had requested that the Board supply a number of examiners for an 
indefinite period to aid that agency in extending credit (a similar 
request had been made to and approved by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency). The Board unani-
mously agreed to permit the Reserve Banks to lend examiners as requested, 
with the understanding that Mr. Leavitt would arrange for examiners in 
such a way as to cause the minimum disruption to System operations. 
Mr. Kiley reported that the Treasury had authorized the Reserve 
Banks to use certain simplified procedures for the destruction of flood-
damaged currency, and the Board unanimously concurred in those procedures. 
Watergate incident. Governor Robertson informed the Board that 
he had sent a letter to Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Cur-
rency Committee in reply to the latter's request for information regard-
ing currency found on persons arrested at the national headquarters of 
the Democratic Party in the Watergate Office Building. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
A11 members of the staff except Mr. Greenspan then withdrew 
and Mr. Sherman, Consultant, entered the meeting. 
Retirement matter. Before this meeting there had been circu-
lated a draft of reply that Governor Robertson proposed to send to 
Mr. Campbell, Senior Vice President of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank, 
who had written to each member of the Board on June 16, 1972, commenting 

1681 
6/29/72 
-4-
on the amount of reduction in his pension as a result of his decision 
to retire on August 1, two years before he reached the normal retire-
ment age of 65. Mr. Campbell also had commented on what he regarded 
as a lack of adequate facilities for communication between Reserve Bank 
staff and management, especially in light of several recent involuntary 
separations of officers from the Philadelphia Bank. 
During a discussion of Governor Robertson's draft reply, it 
was noted that the current review of employee benefits at the Reserve 
Banks would include consideration of matters affecting Mr. Campbell's 
pension, including the use of a high-five-year average salary base for 
its calculation and the discount applied when employees elect early 
retirement. It was unanimously agreed that the letter with a number 
of revisions would be sent by Governor Robertson on behalf of the Board, 
although some members might also wish to respond individually. A copy 
of the letter as sent is attached as Item No. 2. 
Several members of the staff who had beea present at the begin-
ning of the meeting then returned to the room. The following also entered: 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Taylor, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 

1685 
6/29/72 
-5-
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Guinter, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Also present were Mr. Leon Korobow of the Banking Studies 
Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and Mr. Harvey 
Rosenblum of the Research Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, and Dallas on June 22 and by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on June 26, 1972, of the rates on advances 
and discounts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southwest 
Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of The Denton 
County National Bank of Denton, Denton, Texas, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 3. 

6/29/72 
-6-
The Board unanimously approved Governor Sheehan's recommenda-
tion, stated in a memorandum of June 23, 1972, of an additional goal 
in the Board's 1972 Affirmative Action Plan for Equal Employment Oppor-
tunity. A copy of the memorandum is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board ratified the action taken by available members of 
the Board on June 26, 1972, regarding special arrangements under Regu-
lation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks, and Regula-
tion D, Reserves of Member Banks, for member banks in areas affected 
by the recent hurricane. Attached under Item No. 5 are copies of the 
press release issued and the telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Banks 
pursuant to that action. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum of June 20, 1972, in which the Board's 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans concurred, 
the Board unanimously approved construction of a coin vault-truck dock 
addition to the Pittsburgh Branch building. A copy of the letter sent 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the appointment of Charles E. 
Silva as Senior Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
with salary at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy 
of the letter informing the Reserve Bank of this action is attached as 
Item No. 7. 

i t t g ? 
6/29/72 
-7-
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of June 27, 1972, the Board 
unanimously approved a letter requesting the views of the Federal 
Reserve Banks with respect to those recommendations of the Currency 
Verification and Destruction Task Force that they had not already 
considered. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Interpretation of Regulation T. In a memorandum of June 27, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed a request 
by Analytic Investment Management, Inc., Newport Beach, California, 
that the Board interpret Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, 
as permitting in certain circumstances a trustee to retain securities 
belonging to the trust in its custody where the trust sells an equiva-
lent amount of the same securities "short against the box." The Regu-
lation, in effect, permits a short sale to be executed without the 
customary margin if the securities sold short are "held in the account." 
The requested ruling would give the trustee the benefit of the exemption 
without requiring deposit of the securities with the broker, if the 
trustee signs an agreement pledging the shares to the broker. The 
staff recommended a negative position. A draft letter was attached. 
Governor Robertson stated that he disagreed with portions of 
the memorandum, and he proposed that the Board act only on the letter. 

1 6 8 8 
6/29/72 
-8-
Discussion also included an expression of view by Governor Bucher 
that the Board's negative conclusion should be stated more explicitly. 
There was agreement with a suggestion that Governor Bucher work with 
the staff on language changes to meet the point he had raised. 
Subject to such revisions, the letter was approved unanimously. 
Attached as Itern No. 9 is a copy of the letter in the form in which 
it was subsequently transmitted. 
Reports from foreign bank offices. In a memorandum of June 27, 
1972, Governor Brimmer requested approval for proceeding with a program 
to collect monthly balance sheet reports from U.S. agencies and branches 
of foreign banks and other foreign-oriented banking institutions in the 
U.S. An attached memorandum of June 22 commenting on the proposed pro-
gram was accompanied by a reporting form and instructions. The project 
had been undertaken by Governor Brimmer at the request of the Board, 
and its broad outlines had been approved by the Board's Committee on 
Financial Statistics. If the Board approved, reporting forms and instruc-
tions would be submitted to the Office of Management and Budget for 
clearance, with the hope of having the reporting system in place by 
late fall 1972. 
Discussion included comments by Governor Daane that the report-
ing project should be appropriately phased with the conferences he 
and Governor Mitchell had been undertaking with foreign central bankers 

1 6 8 9 
6/29/72 
-9-
with respect to regulation of U.S. offices of foreign banking insti-
tutions. One of the issues being discussed in those conferences was 
the reporting system. Governor Mitchell emphasized the need to coor-
dinate the proposed reporting form with the call report form. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the program was approved 
unanimously, subject to unanimous agreement by the Board's Committee 
on Financial Statistics with respect to implementation. The approval 
included authorization of expenditure of approximately $33,000 (already 
provided in the 1972 budget) for data processing development work, for 
the remainder of the year. 
Property management. In September 1971 the Board published 
for comment a proposal to designate property management as a permissible 
activity for bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. At the request of the National Association of 
Real Estate Boards, a hearing was held in January 1972. Numerous 
written comments were received, the majority from members of the Association. 
In a memorandum of June 1, 1972, the Banking Markets Section 
recommended that property management not be considered a permissible 
activity, on the ground that the activity was not closely related to 
banking and that it failed the public benefits test. In a memorandum 
of May 30, 1972, the Legal Division analyzed the written comments 

Ikiso 
6/29/72 
-10-
recelved and the arguments advanced at the hearing. The Division, 
concluding that there was a tenuous relationship between banking and 
property management activities, as defined in the Board's proposal, 
and that the public interest considerations were at best neutral, 
concurred in the negative recommendation of the Banking Markets Section. 
Staff papers had been submitted by the Banking Studies Depart-
ment of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the Research Depart-
ment of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. The New York Bank staff 
recommended against designating property management as a permissible 
activity. The Chicago R.eserve Bank's staff was in favor of permitting 
the activity, but with restrictions to guard against several possible 
types of abuses. At today's meeting Messrs. Korobow and Rosenblum 
advanced arguments in support of the positions taken by the respective 
Reserve Banks. 
A pivotal point in the general discussion was the fact that 
for many years banks had engaged in farm management through their trust 
departments. There was agreement that justification could be found 
for permitting bank holding company subsidiaries to engage in this 
type of property management more easily than for other types. However, 
it would be awkward to permit farm management and prohibit other aspects 
of property management. It was observed, however, that permitting the 
activity through bank holding company subsidiaries, rather than just 

1691 
6/29/72 
-11-
through bank trust departments, would provide an avenue for engaging 
in such services on a much greater scale than at present; a contract 
with a subsidiary would be more easily arranged than a trust device. 
Another theme of the discussion was the seeming inconsistency 
of determining that property management was not permissible for bank 
holding companies on the ground that it was not closely related to 
banking, when in fact bank trust departments did engage in property 
management. However, it was brought out that trust departments, in 
serving the interests of beneficiaries, performed a great many functions 
that were not closely related to the business of banking proper. It 
did not follow, therefore, that any activity in which a trust depart-
ment engaged must be considered closely related to banking in the 
context of bank holding company functions. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that his position was narrowly 
balanced. He believed that there were advantages to customers for banks 
to be permitted property management activities through holding company 
subsidiaries, but he was also almost persuaded that present arrangements 
provided adequate machinery. He was impressed by the rationale presented 
by the Chicago Reserve Bank's staff in favor of permitting the activity, 
if the constraints suggested could be effectively drawn. However, it 
seemed probable that difficulties of definition would be encountered. 
Governor Daane spoke of the desirability of a middle ground, 
neither a flat denial nor a broad authorization. The restrictions 
suggested might provide such a compromise. 

6/29/72 
-12-
Governor Brimmer stated that, on balance, he did not believe 
that the function should be authorized for bank holding companies. 
He felt that an attempt to tailor regulations to accommodate the 
need in agricultural regions would result in such complexity that 
other aspects of property management would also have to be permitted. 
The need for farm management was now being provided through trust 
departments, although perhaps not so efficiently as it could be 
through holding company subsidiaries or with as much convenience to 
customers. 
Governor Sheehan commented that he was willing to permit 
limited activities, if constraints could be stated clearly. 
Governor Bucher expressed the view that bank involvement in 
property management through trust departments provided an adequate 
vehicle to serve customers. However, he considered it an entirely 
different matter to think of permitting bank holding company subsid-
iaries to engage in property management, since he feared that this 
might involve holding companies in speculative activities, and might 
result in adverse consequences such as were described in the staff 
memoranda. 
Governor Robertson expressed concurrence with the position 
taken by Governors Brimmer and Bucher. He did not regard property 
management as closely related to banking, and he was largely in 
agreement with the reasoning the Banking Markets Section had presented. 

1633 
6/29/72 
-13-
After further discussion, the Board by unanimous vote determined 
that property management should not be designated as an activity 
permissible for bank holding companies. Attached under Item No. 10 is 
a copy of the press release issued pursuant to this action, along 
with a copy of the notice published in the Federal Register. 
Boston building project. In a memorandum of June 27, 1972, 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans con-
curred in the recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations that the Board approve the design development drawings for 
the new building for the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and that the 
Bank be authorized to proceed with the construction document phase. 
However, the Committee questioned the small area of usable space on 
each floor of the tower structure of the proposed building. While the 
Committee realized that building design changes might not be feasible 
at this stage, it believed that the Reserve Bank should be apprised 
of its concern, which was reflected in an attached draft letter. 
Discussion included a comment by Governor Sheehan that the 
Committee would have expressed more definite objection to the floor 
area in the tower if the Board had not previously approved earlier 
phases containing that feature. A view was expressed that it would 
be desirable again to suggest that that element of design be reviewed, 
if the project was not too far advanced to permit changes. However, 

1634 
6/29/72 
-14-
a staff comment Indicated that the Board's consulting architect had 
explored the question and considered that the tower design had certain 
advantages. 
The draft letter submitted by the Committee was approved unani-
mously. A copy is attached as Item No. 11. 
Reserve Bank budgets. Today's agenda called for consideration 
of Reserve Bank budgets for the second half of 1972, analysis of which 
had been submitted by the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
with a memorandum of June 19, 1972. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that implicit in the budgets 
was a 5 per cent increase in employment levels. He was unwilling to 
authorize such an increase, especially in advance of knowing what 
employment ceiling might be set by the Federal Government for the 
second half of the year. 
Action on the budgets was deferred. 
Non-payout leasing. BankAmerica Corporation, San Francisco, 
California, had applied for permission to engage de novo in non-payout 
leasing through BAC Computer Corporation, also of San Francisco. Basic 
to a decision on that application was the general question whether or 
not non-payout leasing should be considered an activity permissible 
for bank holding companies under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act. Recommendations by the Board's staff and the Federal 

1635 
6/29/72 
-15-
Reserve Bank of San Francisco were uniformly adverse both with respect 
to the general question and the specific application. The Banking 
Markets Section, in a memorandum of June 6, 1972, expressed the view 
that non-payout leasing was not closely related to banking; banks 
traditionally had not engaged in that activity, and it was not func-
tionally equivalent to an extension of credit. Moreover, because of 
the relatively high risks involved, it would not be in the public 
interest for holding companies to engage in non-payout leasing. The 
Legal Division had prepared a draft, and a later revision, of a 
letter to BankAmerica Corporation denying its application and setting 
forth the rationale for determining that non-payout leasing was not a 
permissible activity, 
language for a passage of the draft letter relating especially to the 
risk involved. He regarded risk as of less importance than did the 
Legal Division. However, after discussion the letter was approved, 
Governors Mitchell and Daane dissenting, in substantially the form of 
the redraft prepared by the Legal Division. A copy of the letter in 
the form in which it was transmitted is attached as Item No. 12. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell suggested alternative 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
n r 
G O V E R N O R S 
O P T U S 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/29/72 
| 
W A S H I N G T O N , n. c. ?ossi 
• 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 28, 1972 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
House of Representatives 
Washington, U. C. 2C515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
In Chairman Bums' absence, 1 am writing in reply 
to your letter of June 22 regarding currency found cm person, 
arrest ed at the Democratic Headquarters recently. 
Th* Federal Reserve is doing Its level bast to cooperate 
iv, the tn-c,tigation of this incident. Ue have been told by the 
V ' 
t > - v for the District of Columbia that disclosure at 
"jm" Of am- information that may be in our possession could 
impede the investigation and, in the. event of prosecution co„ d 
leopavdise the defendants' right to a fair trial 
long t,Peiicnce 
i „ enforcement has convinced me that public disclosure o 
e ^ n c - e bit by bit and out of content has the high potet,U,l of 
casting "suspicion of wrongdoing on innocent third persons, the 
unfairness of chi.e is obvious. 
We believe it is our duty to helPi not hinder thoec «ho 
are l e ^ U y responsible for ascertaming the facts. 
hereioi, 
I; with regret: that I infom you that we are not no* m a position 
to pcoviue the information you request. 
Sincerely, 
(Sip.ned) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
OR THE 
Item Mo. 2 
< ; V
;
F 
E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 5/B T E M 
6/29/72 
;lir-''rifj:fr'v *5 /,7 " 
WASHINGTON, D. ft. 2C?5bl 
.r>v\ • • i I i t<~ ' v 
.^•.''UM'iv ./i?• 
' . ^ ' I * 
' 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
June 29, 1972 
1637 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell 
Se nio r Vice Presi dent 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
P h i lad o 3 p h i a. Pen n s y 1 v a n i a 1910.1 
D e a r Mr f Cntnp 1)e 11: 
This will acknowledge your letter to Chairman Burns dated 
June 16, expressing your views regarding your prospective pension from 
the Federal Reserve Retirement: Plan and commenting generally on the 
"means by which employees of the Federal Reserve Banks may communicate 
with the directors or the management of the Banks. I note that yon 
cent copies of your letter to each member of the Board of Governors, 
to President Kastburn, and to Mr, Frederic Solomon of the Board's staff. 
Your comments have been considered at a meeting of the Board as well as 
by the members individually, and this reply is being r.eni. as c col loo 
t i vc r e i;p oAe, 
As we read your letter, your main objection arises from the 
comparison between the reduced benefit for early retirement on August 1, 
^972. and the full pension you would receive if you continue to the 
normal retirement age of 65, It is true that your decision to retire 
Row would significantly reduce your pension. The Federal Reserve, pen-
sion plan provides for normal retirement at: age 65, which is trie same 
used by most of the more progressive employers with whom the Reserve 
Banks compete for personnel. A good many employers have some provision 
3or early retirement, but except for a few public employee systems a 
discount on the benefit is customary for those retiring before 65; in 
fact, the full actuarial discount is applied by about a third of the 
employers included in our current survey of pension plans. In the case 
Uiu Federal Reserve Bank Plan, however, the discount for early retire • 
ftK?nt is 2 per cent per year .for a long-service employee, such as yourself , 
c°mpared with an actuarial rate of about 5 per cent a year. Thus, this 
r per cent penalty you would pay for retiring two years early is sub-
stantially less than the cost of around 10 per cent to the Retirement 
Plan. 
Another element lowering your immediate pension is the fact that: 
you. would not have the additional two years of creditable service that 
"•'0uld accrue if yoi> were to work to age 65, As you know, credit accrues 
fJt the rate of 1.8 per cent of final average, salary for each year of ser-
v • c-e to i• e t i. re;o.ent-. 

-2- 
1633 
Although, the two elements mentioned affect your pension 
significantly, a much more important factor in your particular case is 
your decision to forego the substantial increase that would occur in 
your final 5-year average salary if you remained in service to age 6.5, 
This high-5 average salary is a key part of the base on which pensions 
are computed. For the 5 years ending July 1972, your average is $29,796 
whereas a projection through July 1974 at your present salary rate would 
produce a high-5 average, salary of $33,788, or 13.4 per cent more than 
your current average. Thus your pension as of August 1 on a joint sur-
vivorship basis with tho pop-up feature you have elected in the event 
your wife dies before you do would be 56.9 per cent of your high-5 
average salary, or $16,960 per year; two years later it would be about 
61.5 per cent of your then attained high-5 salary, or $20,771. Inci-
dentally, this two-life survivorship benefit with the pop-up feature 
results in an actuarial reduction of approximately 17 per cent in your 
pension if taken this year. The reduction for the same feature at age 
65 would be almost 18 per cent. 
You did not mention specifically the rapid change in your 
salary the past few years, but a comment on this aspect of the pension 
calculation may be helpful. Most pension plans for salaried workers 
use a percentage of final average salary per year of service for cal-
culating the benefit„ The Federal Reserve survey now in process 
discloses that among the 60 employers canvassed, the most, common salary 
oase for pensions is the highest 5-year average for a consecutive period 
°f years, ordinarily the ftna'J. 5 years of service, Some plans use 1C or 
15 years and a few use a career average salary with certain adjustments. 
Kr-ceut for a few of the public omplevee funds, such as the Federal Civil 
Service., the Board Plan, and a few State or municipal plans, we have 
£ound no employers using less than the 5-year average 
in fact, until 
Very recently the Internal Revenue Service ordinarily would not qualify 
a pension plan lor the tax benefits that result both for the retiree 
^ud the employer if the final average was based on less than 5 years. 
Mere again, the Bank Plan is equal to the most progressive of the non-
governmental retirement plans, and better than a good many, 
x \ 
No reference was made in your letter to the Thrift Plan, but we 
tfould point out that this is an integral part of the retirement bene-
fits package for Federal Peserve personnel. When the Thrift Plan was 
Established, the funds contributed by employees prior to 1970 toward 
Purchaso. of annuities at retirement were made available for transfer to 
new Plan along with interest at the rate actually earned prior 
'-hereto. Since then, employees who desire to save toward their later 
i'cars have had the opportunity to authorize that as much as 6 per cent 
their salaries be placed in the Thrift Plan on which they receive a 
guaranteed interest rate of 8 per cent compounded annually and, in 
uihti.1:•• on, a 25 per cent matching contribution from their employer, 
••nuerest. st the 8 per cent*, rate also is earned on the matching 
c°ucributions. 
The part of your letter dealing with the means by which Reserve 
employees may commuuicatc with tbeic- managements- presents a quite 

-3-
1&33 
different problem. Insofar as the pension system is concerned, 
employee,4) at each Reserve Bank have had a representative of their own 
choice continuously on the board that administers the pension system 
since it was established in 1934 „ The presidents cf the Reserve Banks 
represent the managements on the Administrative Board of the Retirement 
Plan, and of course the Board of Governors has a representative in 
ke epi.ng with its responsibilities for expenditures of Federal Reserve 
funds and its interest in a progressive benefit program, A similar 
arrangement exists for the Thrift Plan which contains both employee 
money and matching contributions provided by the employer. The seven-
member. Executive Committees of both the Retirement and Thrift Plans 
have several employee representatives: at present two members are 
Reserve Bank presidents, one is a member of the Board of Governors, and 
four are from the elected employee representatives on the Administrative 
Boards or are officer:-employees not directly associated with the admin-
istration of the Plans. 
Quite frankly, I doubt that many reasonably knowledgeable 
Reserve Bank employees would feel that the present benefit program of 
the Reserve Banks is inferior to similar programs provided by other 
employers with which the Reserve Banks compete; in fact, we are con-
vinced that the overall package of benefits for Reserve Bank employees 
is equal to or better than programs available at most other forward-
looking progressive employers. This package includes the Pension Plan, 
the Thrift: Plan, the Group life and Survivorship insurance coverage, 
the Lon^-Xerw Disability Plan, sick leave provisions, and vacation 
benefits, all of which comta.re favorably with similar facilities offered 
by competing employ :>rc , 
With reference to your other comments on employee-management 
'relations> it has been our understanding that there are various chan-
nels for communication between the staff: and management of the Reserve 
Banks, Nevertheless, the Board would appreciate receiving a more 
eomplo.te statement from you as to what particular .channels of communi-
cation or appeal might be provided that would assist Reserve Bank 
employees in transmitting their views to management. Perhaps you would 
care to discuss that subject in person with both President Eastburn and 
Governor Sheehan, wbc is chairman of the Board's C omit tee on Organiza-
tion, Compensation, and Building Plans for. the Reserve Banks. 3'. assure 
)ou tha t Members of the Board are actively concerned that there be ade-
quate means for communication between the staff of each of the Reserve 
ttanks and their managements. 
Let me say in closing that ve on the Board cf Governors are 
iUatiiied thai: you felt free to write frankly regarding your complaint 
as to the operation of the pension plan in your individual case and as 
to the broader question of communication between employees and manage-
ment . We arc most sorry to know that you have decided to leave the 
System ahead of your normal retirement, date* You have done a fine 

-4-
' «t A 
/ O U 
job with the Federal Reserve over the years and your efforts have 
always been highly regarded in your particular field of bank supervi-
sion and regulation. Should you be Interested in an advisory assign--
ment in Washington in the near future, I would urge you to make your 
availability known to Messrs. Solomon and Leavitt of the Board's 
staff. 
Sincerely 
CC; President East-burn 

1701 
Item No. 3 
6/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Denton County National Bank of Denton, Denton, Texas ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization and third 
largest multibank holding company in Texas has five subsidiary banks with 
aggregate deposits of $717 million representing approximately 2.7 per cent 
V 
of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 
(All banking data 
are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect bank holding company acquisitions 
1/ Applicant controls substantially all the stock of three Texas banks: 
Bank of the Southwest, Houston; Village National Bank, Houston; and First 
National Bank of Longview, Longview, Texas. Applicant holds approximately 
38 per cent of the voting shares of South Park National Bank, Houston, and 
has minority interests of between 4.20 and 20 per cent in four other 
Houston banks whose aggregate deposits as of June 30, 1971, were approxi-
mately $117 million. Applicant's minority interest of 24.7 per cent in 
Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore, Texas, is expected to be liquidated. 
The Board approved Applicant's applications to acquire Long Point National 
Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas ($29 million of deposits) and Continential 
National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, Texas ($182,2 million of deposits) 
°n April 11, 1972, and May 24, 1972, respectively. 

1702 
approved through May 1, 1972.) Consummation of the proposed acquisition 
of Bank (deposits of approximately $33 million) would increase Appli-
cant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State by .12 percentage 
points and Applicant's rank in the State would be unchanged. The proposed 
acquisition represents Applicant's initial entry into the Dallas banking 
market 
Bank, located in the city of Denton approximately 35 miles 
from downtown Dallas, Texas, ranks 21st among 117 banks operating in 
the Dallas banking market and controls approximately .6 per cent of total 
deposits of commercial banks in that market. Bank, with control of 24 
per cent of deposits of commercial banks in Denton County, is the second 
largest of four banks located in Denton, Texas. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank located nearest to Bank is at 
Longview, Texas, approximately 165 miles southeast of Bank. Continental 
National Bank of Fort Worth, which Applicant proposes to acquire, is 
located 37 miles southwest of Bank in the adjacent Fort Worth banking 
market. It appears that no meaningful competition exists between Bank 
and any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and there exists no meaningful 
competition between Continental National Bank of Fort Worth and Bank. 
No meaningful competition is expected to develop in the future in the 
light of the facts presented, notably the distances separating Bank from 
2/ In addition to the present application, Applicant has filed applications 
with the Board to acquire: The First National Bank of Brownsville, The 
First National Bank at Port Arthur and the Bank of Woodlake, National 
Association, Houston, a proposed new bank, all in Texas. 

-3-
1703 
Applicant's subsidiary banks, the number of banks located In the inter-
vening areas and the Texas statutes prohibiting branch banking. It 
seems unlikely that Applicant would enter the Dallas market de novo, 
or through the acquisition of a bank in that market smaller than 
the one proposed for acquisition. It appears that consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would neither eliminate any meaningful existing 
competition nor foreclose significant potential competition. Rather, 
affiliation with Apolicant may enable Sank to compete more effectively 
with the larger banking organizations located in Dallas and thereby 
have a procompetitive effect in the relevant market. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect 
on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiaries and Dank aDpear satisfactory. 
It seems 
that the major banking needs of the area are being adequately served 
at the present time, however, the prospects for continued economic 
expansion in the cities of Dallas and Fort Worth and surrounding areas 
are good, resulting in part from a new Dallas/Fort !Torth Regional 
Airport currently under construction. Such growth should increase demands 
for banking services. Affiliation with Applicant should enable Bank 
rcore effectively to meet such increased demands. In addition, to the 
extent that affiliation with Applicant will enable bank to provide 
services presently available only through the area's largest banking 

1704 
-4-
organizations located in Dallas, convenience and needs aspects of 
the proposal are consistent with approval and lend some weight thereto. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
3/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
voting: Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 4 
6/29/72 
170S 
June 23, 1972 
TO: 
Board of Governors 
/// ' 
FROM: 
Governor jShjWan 
T ' 
SUBJECT: Equal Employment Opportunity 
proposed additional goal for 1972. 
Affirmative Action Plan 
The discussion by the Board several weeks ago of the 
Affirmative Plan for Equal Employment Opportunity suggested a 
fourth objective which is stated below. The additional goal 
projects an increase in the number of minority employees in 
grades FR-11 and above relative to the overall increase, in 
employees in those grades. This will permit more flexibility 
in achieving the goals of the Plan, in that success will not 
be entirely dependent on an increase in the number of Eoard 
employees, but, rather a change in the ratio of minority 
employees to others in the higher grades. 
A proposed addition to the 1972 Affirmative Action 
Plan would be made, if approved by the Board, as stated below: 
GOAL: Minority employees in grades 
FR-11 and above to represent 5% of the total 
employees occupying those grades. 
There v?cre 20 minority employees in 
grades FR-11 and above on 5/31/71. On 11/30/71 
there were 19 or a loss of one for the six-month 
period. As stated above, in the interpretation 
of the goal for women employees, the DPA esti-
mates an overall increase of 30 employees for 
1972 in the assignments at FR-11 and above. In 
order to achieve an increase in the number of 
minority employees in the subject grades from 4% 
to 3%, there would have to be an addition of six 
for a total of 25 as of 12/31/72. Since January 1, 
1972, two additional minority employees in FR-11 
and above have left the Board, 
1 recommend the Board's adoption of this additional 
O f\ "C? 1 

" 1706 
I 
2 
5 
For immediate release 
June 26> 1972 
The Federal Reserve System today moved to facilitate 
efforts of banks In the areas flooded due to Hurricane Agnes to 
6ceoswiGd£te the credit needs of their customers for reconstruction 
and rehabilitation purposes. 
Under arrangements established by the System's Board of 
Governors in Washington, the Federal Reserve Banks whose districts 
enccninass the involved areas are authorised: 
I 
' 
' 
' " 
1. To valve penalties on member banks for failure to 
maintain the raeerpc balances they are required to keep •{•;?.th tho 
Reserve Banks*, 
2, To make appropriate credit available to banks, to 
help theiu meet the unusual circumstances in their areas. 
Item No. 
6/29/72 

T E L E G R A M 
-
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
June 26, 1972 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS: 
Quoted below is a copy of a press release issued by the Board today 
with respect to Federal Reserve assistance to banks in flood disaster 
areas. 
It is the Board's intent that Reserve Banks use existing authorities to 
(1) waive penalties for deficient, reserves; (2) to afford liberal 
use of the discount window for member banks, including making loans 
for longer periods, and (3) to make credit available to nonmember 
banks under Par. 13, Sec. 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Please advise if, in your judgment, additional aid to nonmember 
institutions, including direct loans undex Par, 3 of Sec, 13 oi 
indirect lending through member banks, is necessary. 
Text of the press release follows: 
(QUOTE PRESS RELEASE HERE - COPY ATTACHED) 
ROBERTSON 

• V* Ov c0\'n ' • 
/£:- 
A t : 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F TH£ 
Item No . 6 
EDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/29/72 
1708 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
A R N N I A T 
C O R R E S P O H O E N C C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 29, 1972 
Mr. Willis J. Winn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 4410] 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
The Board has considered your request to authorize 
the acceptance of the lowest bid of $1,629,700 for the con-
struction of a coin vault-truck dock addition to the Pittsburgh 
Branch, o.s outlined in your ]euter of June 15, 1972. The Board 
will not object to your accepting the bid and entering Into a 
contract: with the low bidder. 
After the addition of $314,128 for costs not included 
in the contractor's construction proposal, the total cost of 
the work is not to exceed $1.95 million. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
1709 
LJF Tl-it: 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/29/72 
Mr. Darryl 11. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank ox St. Louis 
P.O. Box 442 
St:. Louis? Missouri 6.3.166 
Dear Mr, Francis: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment and 
paysicnt of salary to Mr. Charles E. Silva as Senior Vice President 
of the. Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis at the annual rate of 
$28,500, effective July 1, 1.972. This is the rate fixed by your 
Board of. Directors as reported in your letter of Hay 11. 1972. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
2055! 
ADDRESS or n'JIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOAKO 
June 30, 1972 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant St-cretary 

1710 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
.• M'c'/-''> 
or THE 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE S Y S T E M 
6/29/72 
K ^ V - 
A ^ V P . - S ' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
AOS^L 
ADOFTLDE OFFICIAL. C O R B E S P Q N O E W C E 
^
' 
T ° 
T H E 
B O A W O 
••M^f:-* 
June 29, 19?2 
V U 
< 
V I 
! E 
? 
N °
T
E
S 
T H E 
P > : O M P T : 
N
C
T
I
O
N 
T
A
K
E
N 
L>Y the Conference of 
vlcfe p ,; e B i a C n t B a n d fche Conference of Presidents with respect to 
the recoromendation contained in the May 16 report of the Currencv 
Verio, cat ion and Jtesmr*tion Task Force dealing with the devel opiWt 
o,' new equipment' to ink imprint: unfit currency at the ttoe it is sorted, 
In the xntareafc of moving forward promptly with System conoicV.rftti.oii of' 
?.he ramttinoer of tiie report, the Board would 1 
to hear Lh« 
o*~ 
you. Dank with respect to each of the other recordations within the 
»»e>:t two veeks, 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
r 
t 
i/ 
[ 
/ • ' I / 
f! 
(( U ^ X 
I If /j> 
I'-y'^X 
Michael A.1' Greenspan 
/ 
Assistant Secretary 
/ 
/ 
THIS PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDH5AL R3SERVE BANKS 

1711 
B • A R D G F G D V E R N G R S 
. V Q W O V ^ • . 
N R 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ITEMNO- 9 
.o Ihtt 
' 
"" 
^ 
1 ^ ! L"' 1 
6/29/72 
m
m
t
i 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C . 
C . 
J>0S5I 
AODRLIIF. O T F I C I A L 
U D R H E S P O N O C N C E 
• 
"f n THE' BOARD 
• 
Ktv;»* 
June 30, 1972 
Mr. Sheen T. Kassouf, President 
Analytic Investment Management, Inc. 
2IS2 du Poot Drive 
Newport Beach, California 
92.664 
Dea r Mr. Kassouf: 
This letter refers to your letters of October 18, 3971 
and April 10, 1972, regarding short sales 
"against the box," or con-
vertible bond hedges, under the Board's Regulation T, 
Section 220.3(d)(3) of that Regulation orovides, ir effect-
that: when a security being sold short or hedged is "held in the 
account," the broker may execute the short sale without obtainlnp 
thy usual deposit of margin. 
You request, in effect, that a broker be allowed to exe-
cute such a transaction for a trustee without obtaining the usual 
deposit of margin even though the broker does not have^custody of the 
securities being sold short: or hedged. You propose that, in lieu of 
obtaining custody of the securities, the broker be permitted to obtain 
a specified Deposit Agreement" under which the trustee would repre-
sent that it held and would hold a long position equivalent to the 
number of chares sold short, or a long position of securities convert-
ible into the number of shares sold short. Under the proposed agree-
ment, the trustee would further undertake to deliver tc the broker upon 
eemend, in StniJ form for delivery, the number of long shares required 
to se 111 •; tlie s h or t sa 1 e. 
Margins required by the regulation must be obtained by the 
broker regardless of the financial, strength of the customer, and this 
al*o applies to securities which serve, in effect, as margin against 
snort saj.es 'against the box." A security is not "held in the account" 
unless it js in the actual custody of the broker. This requirement 
sev.es a salutary purpose in assuring equality of treatment as between 

1712 
" 2 -
dliferent customers, in preventing possible evasions of the regula-
tion, and in .insuring that covering securities will be on hand in 
negotiable form when the broker closes out a short sale against the 
box c 
Since your proposal would not place custody of the securities 
in the broker, the securities would not be "held in the account," and 
the brokei could not execute the short sales which you propose unless he 
obtained the usual margin required for short sales. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 10 
6/29/72 
For taediate release 
J u n c 30> 1 9 7 2 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today announced that it dees not consider property management 
services a permissible activity for bank holding companies. 
The decision withdrew a proposal of September 14, 1971 
to add to the list of activities considered to be closely related 
to banking or managing or controlling banks the performance of 
property management services. The Board acted after considering 
comments received on its proposal, including the record oi a 
public hearing held January 26, 1972. 
The Board's action did not limit the authority presently 
conferred by statute or regulation on banks and bank holding com-
panies to engage in some limited kinds of property management. 
Accordingly, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries may 
continue to engage in piopen:v management with respect to: 
1. Properties held in a fiduciary capacity; 
2. Properties owned by the bank holding company or 
its subsidiaries for conducting its own bank and 
elated, operations. 
3. Properties acquired, by the holding company or a 
subsidiary as a result of a default on a loan. 
The text of the Board's decision is attached. 

4 ji 
FEDKKAL RESEP-VE SYSTEH 
[12 CFP, Fart 225] 
[Reg, ¥] 
LANK HOLDING COM?AMIES 
}JnnbftciV.£ng Activities of Batuc Holding Companies 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
Register on September 14, 1971 (36 F.R. 13427), the Board of Governors 
proposed to add to the list of activities that it has determined to be 
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks (§ 225.4(a) 
of Regulation Y) the following: ^performing property management, services." 
A public hearing on tliio proposal was held on January "26, 1972, after a 
notice thereof was published in the Federal Register on December 29, 1971 
(36 c\R. 25166). 
After consideration of the record of the hearing and the 
written comments submitted, the Board has determined that property 
management services are not closely related to banking or managing or 
controlling banks. In addition, the possible benefits to the public, 
from adoption of the proposal, such as greater convenience, increased 
competition, or gains in efficiency, a re outweighed, in the Board's 
opinion, by the possible adverse effects, such as unfair competition, 
conflicts of interests, and unsound banking practices. Accordingly, 
the September 14, 1971, proposal is hereby withdrawn. 

r'i-1 £— 
. 4 
The Board's action is not intended to limit the authority 
presently conferred by statute or regulation on bank holding companies 
and their subsidiaries to engage in certain property management activities 
Accordingly, bank holding companies and their subsidiaries may continue 
to engage in property management activities with respect to the following 
types of property: 
(a) properties held in a fiduciary capacity. 
(b) properties owned by the holding company or its 
subsidiaries for conducting its own bank and bank 
related operations. 
(c) properties acquired by the holding company or a 
subsidiary as a result of a default en a loan. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assist ant Secratary 
[SEAL] 

. •' OV not',:; 
. \j r " -
/ l o 
BOARD • F G D V E R i V i G R S 
HF THE 
Item No. 11 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 6/29/72 
WAS HiKGTON, D. C. 205S1 
ADDRESS DfUKiAL CCRRE H P LI N DEN n K 
' i^/c." * 
Tt) THE BOARD 
June 30, 1972 
'Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
.Bos ton , Massachusetts 02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board has considered the design development drawings 
and budget estimate of the proposed new Bank building presented by 
your letter of April 21, 1972, and other documents and supporting 
material submitted by the Bank, 
While the Board accepts the design development drawings 
and proposed budget estimate of $?>». 8 mil lion, based on a gross 
building area ci 1,138,500 square feet, and authorizes the Bank to 
proceed with the construction document phase, the Board is concerned 
that the relatively small usable sosce of approximately 12,500 square 
f jet per floor will result in limited .flexibility for the Bank's 
departmental expansion and might limit obtaining suitable tenants in 
the space reserved for future expansion, Therefore, this matter 
should be carefully explored during this next phase of the planning 
process. 
Although some unit cost, factors represent deviations from 
the established cost base, the projected budget estimate appears 
reasonable at this stage of the project. During preparation of the 
final budget estimate, the Bank should carefully evaluate the proposed 
construction schedule, the cost escalation trends, and make every 
effort to reduce costs during the construction document phase. 
The proposed material handling system to be incorporated 
in the. coin and currency operating areas and vaults should be sub-
mitted for review by the Board's staff to evaluate the relative 
merits of the system with regard, to efficiency of operation, storage 
capacity, cost and audit control. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A, Greenspan 
s s i s tan l: S e c ri:: tary 

• ov v.ow,; • 
X V i"? 
b o a r d a r g o v e r n o r s 
^ 
^ 
^ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/29/72 
f/;/.v.V' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20S51 
iy 
.:> ' u'l ^ 
ADDRESS DfnmAL C Oh R E«<'« " D E N R E 
t>. .'>' T' i ( ' • , JT • 
TO TIIC r.OAHD 
June 2 9 , 1 9 7 2 
jfr, Weal L* Petersen, Counsel 
vanl'^iaeiriea Corporatlon 
15anil of America Center 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Mr. Petersen: 
This io in regard to the application of BankAmerica 
, 
- rat-' or San Baucis co, California, to engage through a nowiy 
UorpoiaUon, 
n i 
, 
t e r corporation, San Francisco, 
o r g a n i c subsi 
^ 
( ^ 0£jrs0na,; p r o p e r t y (primarily peripheral 
California, n ^ 1 
/3 ; 
, 
anancing programs for 
cou\pncer equipment a 
^ f ^ n 
*Jnflftr t U at may not be presently 
data processing manufacturers in a manne 
/ 
?25.4(a) of the 
av.thoviacd for a 
b
a
n
k hoiaing comwiv 
.ect..o>„ 
w 
•5oar< 
Regi'lati.oa Y (12 CFR 225) . 
The Board has considered the specific activitiesjroposed 
s ^ r s s ' t i " s 
r r s r - s r j ^ ^ S r -
1 
HtliA I,J construed or modified to permxt sue. activxtxo„. 
o n t o section /.(c)(8) of the Bank Holding C o ^ u y tet, «,e 
—
;
;
" 
The 
tea, 
i c i t t o r , of the Initial lease the expectarxon 
T
f
f
e
c
r 
Of he transaction and reasonably anticipated 
is u.at u.,- olxu-L 
the same propelt.y to, 
future wanaacl tons -ill. - 
, h e l e s t o r - 8 full invest-
hc to t-o-nponaate the lessor x o n o f 
; - ^ 
* 
?,23.4(a)(6) 
ment in the property". The board has xnterp 
d t o t r a n s . 
t o mean 
^
J
^
^
^
M
o
t 
of an extension 
S ^ T - i f S ~ 
< « CFR 225 123 ) The Boar 
^
^ 
" t o 
r
^ 
r e l a t e d 
to 

17 
ffc. ileal h. Petersen 
Fach of the proposed lease* for computer equipment, on an 
,,ac!i 01. in i 
m 
o u t" lease. Applicant 
dividual baa.8 
- 
£ industry experience, EAC's 
anticipates, hoover 
.hat ^ 
t o b o leased will be recouped 
aggregate investment i 
U - r 
w h i c h i s uncertain) 
over tta. through renewal (the Ukc 
l o a s l „ 8 arrangements, 
H . , 
e 
to computer equipment, are not, in the 
P T r 
dgm nt t!.e functional equivalent of an extension of 
credit. 
The Board has also considered whether - even if the proposed 
'r,IP1-e to be regarded as closely related to banking --
£rard d a s a proper incident" to banking. If a 
they should be r-.gat«*<> a 
' 
Hrran„erflentn which do not permit 
holding company en e 
^ 
s ^ " f n ^ 
reperty to be leased, it 
£ £ r P r r t 
« 
1 
v k hoidin- comoany to engage In computer eqa,pmen, 
permitting a> ^ 
« ^ 
. > 
. 
Board', judgment that th?*e 
leasing in the manner propostt. 
JL 
"benefits to the 
"possible adverse effects are not ou 
£ activity by a bank 
public" that may result from performance o, tni* dd.i/iry > 
holding company. 
For the reasons stated above., the application is denied. 
Very truly youis, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan. 
ASsistont Secre tary 
