MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 11, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
deferred to below: 
Page 3 Amendments to the Regulations G, T, and U 
regarding over-the-counter margin stocks. 

911 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 11, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance I 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
°f First National Boston Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, a bank 
holding company, (1) for permission to purchase shares of Bank of Boston, 

912 
4/11/72 
-2-
S.A., a bank to be formed in Luxembourg, and (2) for permission to purchase 
indirectly through Bank of Boston shares of (a) Boston International 
Limited, London, England, a proposed merchant bank, and (b) Commonwealth 
Trust and Savings Ltd., also in London, a proposed retail bank. A copy 
°f the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to purchase a 
Partnership interest in Interdata Datenverabeitungs G.m.b.H., Vienna, 
Austria, a data processing firm. A copy of the letter sent to the appli-
cant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Crocker Inter-
national Corporation, San Francisco, California, to purchase shares of 
Crocker Servicos Limitada, Sao Paulo, Brazil. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, on 
March 28, 1972, of the application of Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Long Point National 
Bank of Houston. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Jersey 
Banks, Princeton, New Jersey, to acquire shares of Madison State Bank, 
Madison Township, New Jersey, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 

913 
4/11/72 
-3-
In a memorandum dated April 7, 1972, the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommended that the Board adopt, with minor technical 
changes, proposals that were published for comment early (in 1972 setting 
the requirements for continued listing of stocks on the over-the-counter 
margin list. The proposals would be implemented through amendments to 
Regulations G, T, and U, relating to securities credit transactions. 
The Board unanimously approved the amendments, effective May 15, 1972. 
Attached under Item No. 6 are copies of the press release announcing this 
action and the notice published in the Federal Register. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia, in a form incorporating an additional paragraph 
suggested by Governor Brimmer, regarding arrangements for construction 
management services for the Bank's building project. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 7. 
Pursuant to recommendations in memoranda from the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated April 3 and 7 and from the Committee 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans dated April 9, 1972, 
fche Board accepted the budgets of the Interdistrict Transportation. System 
for the second half of 1972. A copy of the telegram informing the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago of this action is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the appointment of Roland D. Graham 
as Senior Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, effec-
tive May 1, 1972, and payment to him of salary at the rate fixed by the 

914 
4/11/72 
-4-
Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter informing the Bank 
°f this action is attached as Item No. 9. 
(As noted in the letter, the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had approved, 
under delegated authority, the payment of salary to four other officers 
at rates fixed by the Minneapolis directors.) 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Mellon Bank International. 
In 1968 the Board granted consent for 
Mellon Bank International, New York, New York, to acquire additional shares 
°f Bank of London and South America Limited (now Lloyds and Bolsa Interna-
tional Bank Limited). The Board imposed a condition that in three years 
the total investment should not exceed the corporation's capital and 
surplus. Mellon Bank International had now requested permission to issue 
subordinated capital debentures to be acquired as a permanent investment 
by 
its parent bank, Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, to meet the condition the Board had imposed. 
In a memorandum 
°f March 27, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
aPproval. A draft letter was attached. 
In a memorandum of April 4, 1972, the Legal Division pointed out 
a Possible inconsistency between the proposed action and a 1964 interpre-
tation in which the Board had stated its view, as opposed to that of the 
Comptroller of the Currency, that capital debentures do not constitute 
CaPital and surplus for purposes of various provisions of the Federal 
Reserve Act, such as calculation of lending limits. The Division suggested 
tllat, if the Board determined that the proposal to use subordinated capital 

915 
4/11/72 
-5-
• -f/fi '. -
debentures to satisfy the condition was not within the terms of the 
original requirement but nevertheless it wished to approve the proposal, 
it might be advisable to waive the 1968 condition in consideration of the 
Permanent loan commitment. At today's meeting the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation suggested, as an alternative, that if the Board approved 
the application, the letter of consent include a specific notice that 
the Board's 1964 position was unmodified. 
During discussion the staff responded to questions seeking to 
verify that the proceeds of the debentures would continually be available 
• 
< L 
.1 'ItI 'X it 
"j "•••'",.•". ; • 
' i 
C i t' ' .' 
' 
: ' : " : • 
to Mellon Bank International, and that the corporation's over-all capital 
V) 
, . 
r 
, 
. 
. 
M 
% ^ t 
Position was adequate to support its other activities as well as the 
investment in Lloyds and Bolsa. 
It was brought out that although tax 
advantages were one of the reasons for the choice of subordinated capital 
debentures as a means of meeting the Board's condition, another reason 
Was uncertainty regarding future corporate relationships and structure 
within the Mellon affiliates. The staff expressed the view that the 
Matter was one of internal arrangement and there appeared to be no reason 
f°r the Board to insist upon a different plan. However, there was agreement 
that it would be well to specify continuance of the 1964 position. 
L * 
• 
The Board unanimously approved the application. A letter was 
Sent to the applicant in the form attached as Item No. 10. 
Southwest Bancshares. 
In a memorandum of March 10, 1972, the 
division 
of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the application 
o f Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, to acquire shares of the 

91S 
; i i: /. 
4/11/72 
-6-
successor by merger to Continental National Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, 
Texas. The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had also recommended approval, 
but the Department of Justice took an adverse position. 
Discussion, which included comments by the Banking Markets Section 
regarding the banking structure of Texas, indicated that the views of 
Members of the Board were about evenly divided. Action was therefore 
j^ferred until a time when additional members could participate, and the 
Lt , i,,. 
• 
staff was requested to develop additional information on several questions. 
First Financial Corporation. 
In memoranda of March 16 and March 9, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
a 
Action, 
respectively, recommended denial of the application of First 
Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of Union Trust 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida. 
The Board denied the application by unanimous vote and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 11. 
American General Insurance—Texas Commerce. The Board authorized 
issuance of documents reflecting the following actions taken on March 28, 
1972: 
Approval of the application of Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, 
Texas, to acquire shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas; 
Denial of the application of Texas Commerce Bancshares to acquire shares of 
the successor by merger to American National Bank of Beaumont; 

917 
4/11/72 
-7-
Denial of the application of Texas Commerce Bancshares to acquire shares 
°f the successor by merger to MacGregor Park National Bank, Houston; 
Determination that American General Insurance Company, Houston, having 
divested its ownership and control of Texas Commerce Bancshares, has 
ceased to be a bank holding company, and therefore its applications to 
acquire shares in six Texas banks indirectly through Texas Commerce 
Bancshares are dismissed as moot. 
The Board also approved unanimously a press release announcing 
these actions. Attached under Item No. 12 are copies of the press release 
and the several orders and statements, along with concurring statements 
by Governors Mitchell and Brimmer relating to the decisions with respect 
to Beaumont State Bank and American National Bank of Beaumont. 
(Governor 
Sheehan subsequently joined Governor Mitchell in an expanded concurring 
statement regarding the decisions with respect to the Beaumont banks. A 
c°Py is attached under Item No. 13.) 
c 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, and 
Smith then withdrew and Messrs. Solomon, Adviser to the Board, and Bryant, 
director, Division of International Finance, entered the room. 
i 
Governor Daane reported on the recent international meetings held 
Basle, Switzerland. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4 / 1 1 / 7 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
918 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
tl 
National Boston 
l o c a t i o n 
, Massachusetts 
0 2 1 1 0 
Getltlemen: 
April 11, 1972 
0 f GoVn~ 
A S r e <^ u e s tGd in your letter of February 11 
197? 
« 
^ 
FFIin 
t R
R 
R R 
R
"
-
"
1
"
'
-
"
-
• S f c L n w u c 
r s r * 
l " ^ U 
' 
" 
l n V 6 S f d " i t h i n 
^ a r from the date of this letter-
i 
/h:rs 
r rra11 bank <"**">to -tabiis^ tj• 
acauiJd 
! 
^ 
aPPro*imately 
$1,000,000, 
provided "the 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
S t t e d 
tn ™L a h s i C l 
° f / , b a K k h O U i n S 
C O m p a n ^ 
C h e ^ p a n i e s 
-.^"ation"] "
Y 
' 
, 
? 2 a b ° V e S h a 1 1 c o n f i » e ^ e i r activities to 
o p e ; l " o n s 
S " b a n k l n S a n d ° t h e r - ' " n a t i o n a l or foreign fi-
r W « t i n ° U a n d V d e e a H n " S ' h
e d T
^ 
^ 
" B t 0 
in the business of 
^ 
a c tivities is conditionpd 
" 
S ° C U r i t i e S - 
Board's consent to 
C n t of t h n % 
conditioned u P o n your Corporation's obtaining nrior 
stock ofindi ^ 
t , e . C O n t l n U e d h o l d i " 8 
shares of MB should MB 
i 
2 
p 
issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or 
SbK C a s e o f , , " P c r . c e n t of the voting shares of any company 
exceot in 
< > ^ r i t e r f r \ £
n
g ° p e r a " ° n 8 "vered by firm'commitme^ts fro'm 
u.b. corporations or foreign companies doing business in 
OlKJ 
Co 

919 
pirst National Boston 
Corporation 
-2-
^ e United States, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the 
fact that MB will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, 
mai-ntain a size and turnover that is reasonable in relation to demand, 
ancl dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
^Ported under Section 225.4(f)(4) of Regulation Y. 
However, they are 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, 
° n any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that the investment 
be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
t o First National Bank of Boston and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

920 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
4/11/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 11, 1972 
pirst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
3 99 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 10, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to pur-
chase and hold a 50 per cent partnership interest in Interdata 
Datenverabeitungs G.m.b.H. ("Interdata"), Vienna, Austria, at a cost 
o f approximately $17,000 provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board1s consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Interdata by FNCOIC is granted subject to the condition that 
interdata confine its activities to the provision of data processing 
services in Austria of the type permitted by Section 225.4(a)(8) of 
Regulation Y. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condition 
that Interdata shall comply with the provisions of Sections 211.4 and 
2 U . 8 of Regulation K and that, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
o f Interdata as it may require from time to time and maintain at its 
head office all such information as is necessary for a proper evaluation 
o f the activities of Interdata by the Board's examiners. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that the invest-
ment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they 
aPPly to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

y'ooVcow'-. 
.^LRtsf:.* 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 3 
4/11/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 11, 1972 
Crocker International Corporation 
One Sansome Street 
San Francisco, California 
94138 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 14, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of Crocker Servicos 
Umitada ("CSL"), a corporation to be formed in Sao Paulo, Brazil, 
at a total cost of approximately $1,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
This consent is granted on the condition that CSL acts 
as Crocker National Bank's representative office and confines its 
activities to those that are normal for a representative office oi 
a United States bank in Brazil. 
The foregoing consent is given on condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to your Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

922 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I T E M NO_ K 
/ / 1 1 / 7 0 
SOUTHWEST BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southwest Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to Long Point National Bank of 
Houston, Houston, Texas ("Bank"). The bank into which Long Point 
National Bank of Houston is to be merged has no significance except 
as a means of acquiring all of the shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organization is treated 
herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of 
approximately $688 million, representing 2.6 per cent of the total 
commercial bank deposits in Texas and is the fifth largest banking 
organization in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board through March 31, 1972.) Consummation of the proposed 
acquisition of Bank (deposits of approximately $29 million) would 

-2-
increase slightly Applicant's percentage of total commercial bank 
deposits in the State but would not change its ranking. 
Applicant is the third largest banking organization in the 
relevant market which is approximated by the Houston SMSA. Within the 
market, Applicant has three banking subsidiaries including the area's 
third largest bank and holds minority stock interests ranging from 
4.2 per ceftt to 20.3 per oent in each of five other banks (of which Bank is 
one). The combined deposits of all eight related banks ($798.3 million) 
represent 12.9 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the 
market. Bank, with less than 0.5 per cent of deposits in the relevant 
market, ranks 38th in size among 145 banks there. 
Bank, located in a suburban area of northwest Houston, 
was established in 1956 under the sponsorship of principals of Applicant's 
lead bank. Ninety-five common stockholders of Bank and Applicant 
hold 59.5 per cent of Bank's shares. In 1956 these shareholders held 
52.6 per cent. Of the 59.5 per cent, Applicant itself owns 14.7 per 
cent of Bank's shares and Applicant's officers own another 8.3 per cent. 
Based on these facts and other facts of record, disaffiliation in the 
foreseeable future appears to be no more than a remote possibility. 
The service area of Applicant's lead bank, primarily a 
wholesale bank, is the entire Houston SMSA, which overlaps the 
service area of Bank. However, on the facts of record, including 
the nature and extent of the existing affiliation between the banks 
and the differences between the banks in size and type of operation, 

there appears to be no meaningful competition between them. The 
competition that exists between Bank and any of Applicant's other 
banking subsidiaries, or between Bank and any of the banks in which 
Applicant has a minority interest, is not regarded as significant. 
It appears that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
eliminate any meaningful existing competition nor have an adverse 
effect on the structure of the Houston market where there are numerous 
banking alternatives available. Disaffiliation appears to be an 
unlikely prospect and, absent disaffiliation, the development of 
future competition between Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
is considered unlikely. It is concluded that competitive considera-
tions are consistent with approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank appear to be generally satis-
factory and consistent with approval. Bank's service area has experi-
enced considerable economic growth in recent years. Consummation of the 
proposal herein would enable Bank better to serve the credit require-
ments of large customers located in its service area. Also, Applicant 
Proposes to develop, for Bank, international, investment and trust, 
and industrial development services, and to make available to Bank the 
Planning and personnel expertise of Applicant's lead bank. Con-
venience and needs factors lend some weight in favor of approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
Would be in the public interest and the application should be approved. 

-4-
925 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
^ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL} 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Shoehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
Daane and Maisel. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct, has applied for the Boardfs approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of Madison 
State Bank, Madison Township, New Jersey ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given 
in accordance with y 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing 
comments and views has expired. The Board has considered the 
application and all comments received in the light of the 
factors set forth in 3 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
and finds that; 
Applicant, with ten subsidiary banks holding aggregate 
deposits of $969.4 million, is the second largest banking organi-
sation in New Jersey with 6.2 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
1971, unless otherwise indicated, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through February 29, 1972.) 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Bank ($4.0 million 
deposits) would increase only slightly Applicant's share of 
State-wide commercial bank deposits, and its present ranking 
^°uld remain unchanged. 
Item No. 
4/11/72 

-4-
927 
Bank is one of twenty banking institutions in the New 
Brunswick banking m a r k e t t h e relevant market, where it ranks 
eighteenth in size x^ith 0.3 per cent of area deposits. Applicant's 
subsidiary office closest to Bank is located eight miles northeast 
Bank and serves a different banking market. Apparently no 
significant present competition exists between Bank and this 
office, or any of Applicant's other offices. Moreover, the presence 
°f geographical barriers, including the Garden State Parkway, would 
aPpear to limit the development of future competition between Bank 
at*d this office. 
Two of Applicant's subsidiaries have received approval 
t o open branch offices outside of Madison Township, where Bank is 
domiciled, but within the New Brunswick banking market. Thus, it 
i s possible for competition to develop in the future between Bank 
at*d these approved branches. In addition, Applicant has the 
expertise and resources to establish a de novo bank within Madison 
township, a relatively underbanlced community. Consequently, con-
summation of the present proposal may foreclose potential com-
petition between Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank. However, 
Bank has failed to achieve the competitive posture expected of a 
four-year old bank, and Its competitive potential appears limited. 
V Includes Middlesex County except the municipalities of Plainsboro, 
c*anbury, Middlesex and Dunellen, plus Franklin Township in Somerset 
bounty. 

-2-
Other competitors may enter the New Brunswick market through the 
Possible acquisition of one of the 11 small-to-moderate size 
independent banks serving this market. The Board, therefore, 
concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
have only a slightly adverse effect on potential competition. 
The financial condition and management of Applicant 
and its subsidiaries are satisfactory and the prospects of each 
are favorable. However, the financial condition of Bank is 
unsatisfactory; it has yet to report a profit and its deposit 
growth is lagging. Affiliation with Applicant should signif-
icantly strengthen the overall condition of Bank through the 
infusion of both management expertise and financial resources. 
Thus, considerations relating to the banking factors lend weight 
toward approval. Applicant further proposes to expand the range 
°f Bank's services to include trust, investment, international 
hanking, data processing, and other specialized services. 
Affiliation will also permit Bank to become more responsive to 
the credit needs of the community. At present, over one-half 
of Bank's loan portfolio represents loans purchased or federal 
funds sold. Moreover, Applicant intends to assist Bank in open-
ing additional branch facilities. Thus, considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend 
height toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
slightly adverse effects on potential competition which would 

-4-
929 
result from consummation of the proposal are more than outweighed 
bV considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the com-
munity and banking factors, that consummation of the proposal would 
in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°n8ummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
d*te of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
thi s Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- April 11, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
aane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
lIi-tchell and Haisel. 

; 
j '1 c; Tc: jw. ID'; 
•lijC-i^^FTv •iRSi-- &i•• / { / Vr 
. 
. 
•iFMC?'f • ] ^ 1 B> - 
• 
It: ^>•' 
te* 
^ M i l l i l l M ; / 
, 
.
y
. 
>
y
- 
I u g a p i i | | $ 
m 
i
m
M
M
m
m 
f^fvg^-' 
' 
I t e m 
N o 
4/11/72 
For immediate release 
April 11, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today Issued the criteria that over-the-counter (OTC) stocks must 
c°ntinue to meet to remain on its List of OTC Margin Stocks. 
The 
aPProximate 430 stocks now on the list are subject to margin require-
ments. 
The Board's action, effective May 15, means that margin 
stocks failing to meet the criteria will be removed from the List 
dfid will not be subject to the Board's margin requirements. 
Federal Reserve margin requirements set the minimum down 
P0yment that must be. made to purchase margin securities. 
Under 
present. 55 per cent requirement, a purchaser is required to pay 
J Per cent of the purchase price of a margin security and may 
obtain 
credit for the remaining 45 per ccnt. 
Margin regulations apply to extensions of credit by 
Jokers and dealers (Regulation T ) and loans by banks and other 
LENDERS (Regulations U and G, respectively) for the purpose of 
l^rc ha sing or carrying stocks registered on a national stock exchange 
° r named in the Board's List of OTC Margin Stocks. 
Stocks appearing 
the List have not been approved, in any way, by the Board and 
^Presentation by any person that their appearance on the List 
indicates approval by the Board or is based on approval by any gov-
ernment agency is unlawful. 
The criteria employed in selecting OTC stocks for inclu-
8i°n on the List were announced on July 9, 1969. 
The delisting 
0titeria adopted today are substantially the same as those proposed 
^
the Board
for comment
on February
28,
1972.
..itiwWX. i;"»»•;«.• 
. 
_ 
...... . 

- 1 ' 
To remain on the List, a security must meet these require -
merits: 
1. The stock continues to be subject .to registration 
u«de.r section 12(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 
U*8.C. 781 (g)(1)), or if issued by an insurance company such issuer 
c-°ntinues to be s ubject to section 12(g)(2)(G) (15 U.S.C. 781(g)(2)(G)) 
ari<3 has at least $1 million of captial and surplus. 
2. Four or more dealers stand willing to, and do in fact, 
^ k e a market in such stock including making regularly published bona, 
£is[e bids and offers for such stock for their own accounts, or the 
8t°ck is registered on a securities exchange that is exempted by the 
Securities and Exchange Commission from registration as a national 
securities exchange pursuant to section 5 of the Securities and 
^change Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78c), 
3. There continue to be 1,000 or more holders of record 
o f the stock who are not officers, directors, or beneficial owners 
10 per cent or more of the stock, 
4. The issuer continues to be a U.S. corporation, 
5. 
Daily quotations for both bid and asked prices for 
stock are continuously available to the general public; and 
8tall meet 3 of the 4 additional requirements that: 
6. 400,000 or more shares of such stock remain outstanding 
i n addition to shares held beneficially by officers, directors, or 
k^neficitil owners of core than 10 per cent of the stock, 
7. The shares described in subparagraph (6) of this para-
graph continue to have a market value in the aggregate of at least 
.lion 

932 
-3-
8. The minimum average bid price of such stock, as deter-
mined by the Board, is at least $5 per share, and 
9. The issuer continues to have at least $2.5 million of 
a - i
i 
. : j 
t • 
CaPital, surplus, and undivided profits. 
A copy of the Federal Register notice relating to the Board's 
action is attached. 
V j, 
_ 0-
- _ -Ut .. )a r,j i a r, 0,.,,: .., ^,,... r 
,v 
..,:;; 
,.,. _ ...... .; .. • 
. 
- 
. 
. 
, 
< f 
I 
.• y . v . i/,;; 
V 
J 

933 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
tr.?/J>), 
: COi 
i ) : . - 
. 
» 
•• 
unn 
iuci 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
r ^ V • • J 
- U.S.C, 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
h* 
v. > 
l ga 
PARTS 207, 220, and 221--SECURITIES CREDIT TRANSACTIONS 
Requirements for Continued Inclusion on 
List of OTC Margin Stocks 
In the Federal Register of February 26, 1972 (37 F.R. 4097), 
th 
e Board of Governors published a notice of proposed rule making to 
^Plement the requirements for a stock's continued Inclusion on the 
llst of OTC Margin Stocks. The proposal would amend Parts 207, 220, 
a n d 221 (the Board's Regulations G, T, and U, respectively). 
Following consideration of all comments received, the amend-
^nts a g ilo proposed are hereby adopted, subject to the following 
®h«nges: 
1. Paragraph (f) of § 207.2 should read "(f) OTC margin 
* * *" rather than "(f) OTC margin stock:". 
2, 
Paragraph (e) of § 220.2 should read "(e) OTC margin 
* * * M rather than "(e) * * *". 
3. Subparagraph (1) of § 207.5(e); subparagraph (1) of 
' ^Q.8(h); nnd subparagraph (1) of § 221.4(e), are changed to read 
follows: 
"(I) The stock continues to be subject to registration 
Ul*der section 12(g)(1) of tli* SocuriLlcn F.wrUnngo Act of 1934 

934 
-4-
* 
m 
U.S.C, 78J,(g)(l)), or if issued by an insurance company such issuer 
Continues to be subject to section 12(g)(2)(G) (15 U.S.C. 781(g)(2)(G)) 
and has at least $1 million of capital and surplus 
Effective date: This amendment is effective May 15, 1972. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

A - > 7 % . 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
4/11/72 
•'5 r— 
A D D R E S S 
Q r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
D O A R D 
April 11, 1972 
M'-M ;;? A 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Dear Mr. Eastburn: 
The Board has considered the request of March 16, 1972 
from the Philadelphia Bank and will interpose no objection for the 
Bank to engage the Turner Construction Company for construction 
management services throughout the construction document and con-
struction phases of the proposed building project in the manner 
stated in the revised agreement. 
While it is realized that the construction management 
concept is relatively new, the Board is interested in utilizing the 
most efficient techniques available in today's construction industry 
in dealing with cost, schedule and quality control, and in that 
light this project will be of particular interest to determine if 
this management approach might be useful in other building programs. 
For the construction management services, as stated in the 
agreement, it is understood that the base fee shall be $871,000, and 
the reimbursable costs will not exceed $518,000, based on a 32-month 
construction schedule. Appropriate reimbursements for an extension 
beyond the 32-month schedule will be paid by the Bank in accordance 
With the agreement. 
The total fee plus all reimbursables paid Turner 
Construction Company for construction management services and cost 
consultant services shall be included in the total construction.cost 
of the project within the limitation set by the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(a—% 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
••fy^b 

936 
Item No. 8 
4/11/72 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 11, 1972 
MAYO - CHICAGO 
The Board has reviewed and accepts the budgets of the Interdistrict 
Transportation System for the period July 1 - December 31, 1972, as 
submitted by Mr. Abrahamson's letter of March 22, 1972. 
' i 
. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
GREENSPAN 

937 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
4/11/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 11, 1972 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. B. K. MacLaury, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
South Fifth Street 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480 
Dear Mr. MacLaury: 
.. r k:.'V. . • 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment 
and payment of salary to Mr. Roland D. Graham as Senior Vice President 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis at the annual rate of $31,000. 
Acting under delegated authority of the Board, the Committee 
°n Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans has approved the 
Payment of salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
listed below: 
Annual 
. 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Melvin L. Burstein 
General Counsel 
$28,000 
Thomas E. Gainor 
Vice President 
28,000 
Ruth A. Reister 
Assistant Vice 
19,500 
President and 
Assistant 
Counsel 
Sheldon L. Azine 
Assistant Counsel 
19,500 
and 
Assistant Secretary 
All salaries listed above are as fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of March 17, 1972, and are 
effecti.ve May 1 through December 31, 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

7? Water Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letters of September 16, 1971, and 
February 16, 1972, the Board of Governors grants its approval, to 
^ e issuance by your Corporation ("MBI") of up to $20,000,000 of 
subordinated capital debentures on the condition that they will 
b e acquired by Mellon National Bank and Trust Company, and will 
be held by it as a permanent investment in MBI so long as MBI 
c°ntinues to hold the stock of Lloyds & Bolsa International Bank 
limited. 
It is understood that at least $18,100,000 of such de-
bentures will be so issued to meet the stipulation contained in 
the Board's letter of September 16, 1968, and that due consideration 
vill continue to be given to the adequacy of MBI's capital accounts 
relation to the size and character of MBI's activities. 
This^ 
Permission to use these debentures to meet the aforementioned stip-
ulation in no way modifies the Board's finding expressed in its 
Interpretation No. 2308 (1964 BULLETIN 9) that "under the law, 
capital notes or debentures do not constitute 'capital,' 'capital 
stock,1 or 'surplus' for the purposes of provisions of the Federal 
Reserve Act 
" Consequently, the debentures likewise do not con-
stitute "capital and surplus" for purposes of Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
!842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Union 
Trust National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
fche Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has nine banks with aggregate deposits of $427 
Million. and is the seventh largest banking organization in Florida, 
1/ 
controlling 2.9 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Acquisition of Bank ($151 million in deposits) by Applicant would in-
crease its percentage share of deposits by 1 per cent and would make it 
tlle sixth largest banking organization in the State. Consummation of 
transaction would not result in a significant increase in concentration 
banking resources in the State of Florida. 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect all holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by Hie Board through February 29, 
1972. 
939 
Item No. 11 
4/11/72 

940 
-4-
Applicantfs lead bank and two other banking subsidiaries are 
located in the Tampa market. That market is a highly concentrated one 
with the three leading banking organizations located there 
having 
about 68 per cent of market deposits. Applicant is the leading organiza-
tion in the Trmpa market with some 31 per cent of deposits 
and is the 
dominant organization in the Tampa area. 
Bank is located in St, Petersburg, which is located across 
Tampa Bay from Tampa, The St, Petersburg market, though not as highly 
concentrated as Tampa, still is relatively concentrated with the top 
four organizations having over 58 per cent of market deposits. Bank is 
fche second largest institution in St, Petersburg with 17 per cent of 
Market deposits and is only slightly smaller than the leading bank in 
the market. 
Though Tampa and St, Petersburg are adjacent to one another 
and are part of the Tampa - St, Petersburg Standard Metropolitan Statisti-
cal Area, they essentially represent separate banking markets. For this 
raason there is little competition between Applicant and Bank, and con-
Consummation of this transaction would not have a substantial adverse effect 
actual competition. 
However, Applicant's acquisition of Bank would have substantially 
Averse effects on potential competition between Applicant and Bank, As 
8tated earlier, Applicant is the largest organization in the adjacent 
^ m p a market and, because of its size and orientation, is one of the 
m°st likely potential entrants into the St, Petersburg market. 

32 
-4-
St* Petersburg is an attractive market for entry since the deposits 
p e r bank in St. Petersburg are considerably higher than the State 
a^erage and growth prospects of the city are favorable. Thus, Appli-
Cant has the capability and incentive to enter the St. Petersburg market, 
a Market which would support the de novo establishment of a new bank. 
Applicant, however, is not limited to de novo entry into the St. Petersburg 
^rket; there are numerous independent banking organizations located there, 
^ e acquisition of which would not pose the competitive problems raised 
b y A p p H c a n t » s proposed acquisition of Bank and would have a pro-competitive 
e^£ect. in such circumstances, the elimination of a likely entrant into 
9 concentrated market by the acquisition of a leading firm in the market 
ah 
y 
n°nld be discouraged. 
The Board concludes, therefore, that consummation 
the proposed transaction would foreclose significant potential com-
P eUtion between Applicant and Bank. 
Bank is one of only two institutions remaining in Florida with 
dePosits of over $100 million, which are not lead banks in bank holding 
c°mpany organizations. 
It, therefore, appears particularly appropriate 
tllat the Board keep alive the opportunity for the formation of new holding 
companies which can serve to provide additional competition for existing 
h°iding companies in Florida. 
This position is in accordance with an earlier decision of the Board 
p ^ i n g the application of Applicant to acquire Bank of Clearwater, 
j^earwater, Florida, also located in the Tampa - St, Petersburg Standard 
^tropolitan Statistical Area (1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin 654). 

942 
-4-
Denial of the proposed transaction would also preserve Bank 
a s a means of entry into the Tampa - St. Petersburg SMSA by a banking 
organization of appropriate size from a geographic area removed from 
West-central Florida, which would have a beneficial effect on competition 
there. This consideration was recognized by the Board in its denial 
statement of the application of Barnett Banks to acquire Bank (1969 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 615). The Board stressed in that case that 
the acquisition of Bank by one of the State's largest banking organizations 
could lead to domination of banking in the State by existing holding 
companies and perpetuate existing concentration in the Tampa - St. 
Petersburg area by increasing barriers to new entry into St, Petersburg. 
For similar reasons, the Board concludes that consideration of the com-
petitive factors in the present application weighs against approval. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
tesources and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank 
are satisfactory though Bank has management succession problems, How-
V7V. , 
ever, B^nk is large enough to attract needed management on its own. 
Additionally, although Applicant at present has adequate managerial 
Resources to provide for its own needs, there is some question that it 
^ould be able to provide additional management depth for Bank without 
draining its own managerial resources. For these reasons, the banking 
factors do not provide weight for approval of the application. 

943 
-4-
Applicant proposes to improve and expand the lending 
capabilities and drive-in facilities of Bank. Although these proposed 
benefits are favorable, Bank is capable of providing such improvements 
itself. Accordingly, these considerations, while consistent with 
aPproval of the application, do not outweigh the anticompetitive effects 
o f the proposal. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would not be in the public interest and the appli-
cation should be denied. 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for the 
teasons summarized above. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
•j*' Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
rimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Maisel, 

t 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
Item No. 12 
4/11/72 
por immediate release 
April 11, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today its approval of the application of Texas Commerce 
fcancshares, Inc., a Houston, Texas, bank holding company, to acquire 
shares of the Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas. 
At the same time, the Board denied two other applications 
hy the same bank holding company to acquire shares of the American 
National Bank of Beaumont, and the MacGregor Park National Bank, 
Houston. 
In a related action, the Board ruled that American General 
insurance Company, Houston, has taken steps to divest its ownership 
and control of the voting shares of Texas Commerce and has ceased to 
be a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. As a 
result, the Board dismissed as moot applications of American General 
fco acquire shares of six Texas banks. American General was a bank 
folding company at the time the applications were filed by virtue of 
its ownership of 32.4 per cent of the voting shares of Texas Commerce. 
The Board's Orders and Statements relating to the above 
actions are attached. Also attached are Concurring Statements of 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer relating to the actions approving the 
application of Texas Commerce to acquire Beaumont State Bank and denying 
the application to acquire American National Bank. 
Attachments 

945 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Approval for Acquisition of Bank 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent 
the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor 
by 
merger to American National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(a) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a ll comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
reasons set forth in the Board's Statement 
of this date. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
r 
Secretary of the Board 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
^tchell, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Governors 
baane- and Maicel. 

346 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 37 per cent of 
the voting shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the Basis of the record, and for the reasons and upon the 
conditions set forth in the Board's Statement 
of this date, Applicant 
is granted approval to acquire 37 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Beaumont State Bank. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors," April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
~T7~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
WitchellJ Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors 
Daane and Maisel. 

947 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF TI1E FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., HOUSTON,TEXAS 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF SHARES OF EACH OF TWO BANKS 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied for the Board's approval 
under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), 
t o acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the successor by merger to American National Bank of Beaumont, 
Beaumont, Texas ("American Bank"). The bank into x^hich American Bank 
to be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the 
ac<iuiaition of the voting shares of American Bank. Accordingly, the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization is 
Seated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of American Bank. 
Applicant has applied also for approval to acquire 37 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas ("Beaumont State").~ 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant controls one bank 
located in Houston, Texas, with deposits of $1.0 billion, representing 
3 , 7 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. Applicant, 
i/ At the time this application was filed, American General Insurance 
company, Houston, Texas, owned more than 32 per cent of the voting shares 
Texas Commerce Bancshares so that an acquisition of shares by Texas 
^onmierce would constitute an indirect acquisition by American General, 
herefore, separate applications with respect to the acquisition of the 
shares of Beaumont State and of American Bank were filed by American General, 
a s a bank holding company. However, during the period of the Board's con-
sideration of these applications, American General effected a divestiture 
its ownership and control of the voting shares of Texas Commerce and has 
^eased to be a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
ccordingly, American General's applications indirectly to acquire shares 
* each of said banks have been dismissed, as moot, by Order of the 
8°ard. 

948 
- 2 -
the fourth largest banking organization in Texas and the second largest 
in the Houston banking market, controls approximately 16 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in the Houston area. 
In addition, 
Applicant controls between 20 and 24.9 per cent of the voting shares of 
of each of six other banks located in the Houston market and holding 
aggregate deposits of $157.6 million, representing 2.6 per cent of 
2/ 
commercial bank deposits in the Houston area.— Upon acquisition of 
control of both American Bank and Beaumont State (respectively, $94 
million and $23.4 million of deposits), Applicant's position in 
relation to other Texas banking organizations and holding companies would 
remain unchanged and Applicant's share of deposits in the State would 
increase by .4 percentage points. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
1971, and reflect holding company acquisitions and formations through 
December 31, 1971.) 
American Bank (located in downtown Beaumont) and Beaumont 
State (located 2 miles west of downtown Beaumont) both operate in the 
Beaumont banking market, and are, respectively, the second and sixth -
largest of 10 banking organizations in that market; and they control respec 
tively, 16.2 per cent and 4.0 pet cent of commercial bank deposits in that 
y Applicant has filed applications with the Board to acquire all of 
the remaining outstanding voting shares of each of three of these 
banks. 

949 
-4-
market. Upon consummation of the proposals herein, Applicant would 
control deposits of $117.3 million representing 20.2 per cent of total 
commercial bank deposits in the Beaumont market. 
The closest office of Applicant to either proposed subsidiary 
i s located approximately 90 miles west of Beaumont in Houston, Texas. 
appears that no meaningful existing competition between Applicant's 
subsidiary 
bank and American Bank or Beaumont State would be eliminated 
ky consummation of Applicant's proposals; and on the facts of record, 
Particularly in the light of Texas law regarding branching and the 
aforesaid distance between the banks involved, consummation of the 
applications 
is unlikely to foreclose significant potential competition 
between either of the proposed subsidiaries and Applicant's existing 
subsidiary 
bank. The affiliation between American Bank and Beaumont 
^ate apparently has served to eliminate any meaningful competition 
between these banks. 
On the other hand, the facts of record indicate that acquisi-
tion by Applicant of control of both American Bank and Beaumont State, 
° r of American Bank alone, would have serious adverse effects on potential 
competition in the Beaumont banking market. That market looks attractive 
•3/ Beaumont State was organized in 1955 and has been affiliated with 
merican Bank since 1959 as the result of the purchase of 37 per cent 
Beaumont State's outstanding voting shares by a corporation, all of the 
sbares of which are held in trust for the benefit of the shareholders 
American Bank. In addition, it appears that individuals owning 
° Per cent of the outstanding shares of American Bank directly control 
^ additional 39 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of Beaumont 
State. 

950 
-4-
4/ 
f o r de novo entry," Applicant is considered a likely entrant into the 
Beaumont banking market, which is adjacent to Applicant's present market 
area in Houston, Texas, and acquisition of Beaumont State alone will 
result in the disaffiliation of it from American Bank and thereby 
reduce concentration in the Beaumont banking market. Acquisition of 
Beaumont State by Applicant will provide an additional competitor for 
the two largest Beaumont banking organizations. 
American Bank is strong 
enough to continue to compete as a viable independent bank and is 
capable also of becoming a lead bank or substantial participant 
in a new or smaller bank holding company system. The procompetitive 
consequences that are likely to result from Applicant's acquisition of 
Beaumont State alone would be foreclosed by Applicant's acquisition of 
both American Bank and Beaumont State. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary bank is regarded 
as satisfactory, management capable, and prospects for continued growth 
seem favorable. The financial condition and management of American Bank 
and of Beaumont State are considered generally satisfactory and the 
Prospects of each bank, whether operating individually or as a subsidiary 
o f Applicant appear favorable. These considerations are consistent with 
approval of acquisition of either bank but lend no significant weight 
in support of approval. 
i/ Beaumont population to banking office ratio is 15,797 compared with 
State ratio of 9,276 persons per banking office. 

951 
-4-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the Beaumont area, for the most part, appear adequately 
served by the area's existing banking organizations. 
Applicant's 
intention to improve banking services,by offering, among others, 
sPecialized industrial and real estate financing, international bank-
ing and trust services, can be effectuated through Applicant's affiliation 
with Beaumont State alone. Utilization by Beaumont Bank of the financial, 
managerial and resource strength of Applicant should expand the banking 
services available to the Beaumont community. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act, it is the Board's judgment that (1) the application to acquire 
100 per cent of the voting shares of American Bank is not in the public 
interest and should be denied; and (2) the application to acquire control 
o f Beaumont State is in the public interest and should be approved; how-
6 V e r» the Board's approval of the application to acquire shares of Beaumont 
State is conditioned upon Applicant making an equitable exchange offer 
extended on the same terms to all persons holding shares of Beaumont 
state. 
In view of the condition provided herein for extending an equal 
°ffer to all shareholders of Beaumont State, the Board believes it to 
b e in the public interest to permit acquisition by Applicant of 37 per 
cent or more of Beaumont State's outstanding voting shares. 
APril 11, 1972. 

S52 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR MITCHELL 
I concur in the Board's action approving the entry of 
Texas Commerce into the Beaumont banking market through acquisition 
of 
one but not of two banks in that market. Acquisition of both 
American Bank and Beaumont State would have serious anticompetitive 
consequences which are not regarded as likely in connection with an 
acquisition of one of these banks. However, I would give Applicant, 
father than the Board, the choice of which bank to acquire. 
APril 11, 1972. 

953 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I would approve the application of Texas Commerce Banc-
shares, Inc., to acquire the Beaumont State Bank. However, there 
are several points which should receive additional emphasis. 
Entry of Texas Commerce Bancshares into the Beaumont bank-
ing market brings into sharp focus a number of critical features of the 
structure of banking in Texas which is undergoing substantial change. 
Because of the anti-branching laws in Texas, many banks in the State 
have used various types of affiliated relationships to expand their 
hanking network. These include reliance on trusteed affiliates which 
Squire and hold shares of one or more banks for the benefit of share-
holders of a lead bank. Thus, a serious question arises as to whether 
such affiliates are to be incorporated almost automatically into a 
newly formed holding company organization. 
In the absence of geographic restrictions in the State on 
hank holding company expansion, the number of bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions has increased substantially in the last 
few years. More recently, bank holding companies have begun to look 
heyond their immediate market areas for attractive bank acquisitions on 
a State-wide basis. There is a limited number of large banks in the 
State capable of State-wide expansion through holding companies. Con-
sequently, the danger exists that unrestricted expansion into new banking 
Markets through holding company acquisition of a series of dominant banks 
iri particular markets (some of which may already be affiliated) would 

V 
- 2 -
r^J 
severely reduce competition. 
If allowed to progress, a major portion 
°f the State's banking resources would come under the control of a 
handful of large bank holding companies. 
The Board's action in this case, in my view, encourages 
increased competitive vitality in the Beaumont market through the 
introduction of an aggressive banking organization. 
It also encourages 
the disaffiliation of two of the larger banks in the market. American 
Bank remains a significant competitor in its market and is available 
also to serve as a significant participant in a separate bank holding 
company system. 
In addition, I want to comment on another issue related to 
this case; that issue concerns the Board's recent determination that 
American General Insurance Company has terminated its status as a bank 
holding company by (1) exchanging its voting shares of Texas Commerce 
for a proportionate number of nonvoting shares, (2) committing American 
General to a number of additional steps designed to remove any possibility 
of control or controlling influence over the voting shares, management 
policies of Texas Commerce, and (3) further committing American General 
to divest itself of all interest in Texas Commerce by January 1, 1981. 
Based upon the particular facts and circumstances of this instance 
(including the nature and effect of American General's relationship 
with Texas Commerce, the actions taken to eliminate the pcssibility of 
control or a controlling influence over the voting shares or management 
policies of Texas Commerce, and in the light of the aforementioned 
commitments), I am satisfied that American General has terminated its 
status as a bank holding company. 

955 
-4-
However, I am concerned that the Board's action in the. case 
American General may be misread as indicating that any company 
Ashing to remove itself from the restrictions of the Bank Holding 
p 
mPany Act may do so through a simple exchange of voting shares of a 
bank for nonvoting shares. On the contrary, the Board's action is based 
uP°n a careful analysis of the particular circumstances relating to 
American General's acquisition, retention, and future divestiture of 
a n y 0wnership interest it may hold in Texas Commerce. Moreover, the 
B°ard has made it clear that its action in no way limits its authority— 
ill appropriate circumstances—to amend, revoke or nullify its determination 
that American General has ceased to be a bank holding company, 
• K 
U , 1972. 

956 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TEXAS COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Approval for Acquisition of Bank 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent 
of the voting shares (less directors* qualifying shares) of the 
successor by merger to MacGregor Park National Bank, Houston, Texas 
("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is denied for 
the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement^ of this date. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and 
G o v e r n o r s Robertson, 
Mitchell^ Brimmer, and Sheehan. 
A b s e n t and not voting: 
Governors 
Daane and Maisel. 

957 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY TEXAS COMMERCE 
BANCSHARES, INC., HOUSTON, TEXAS 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANK 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Houston, Texas ("Texas 
Commerce"), a registered bank holding company, has applied for the 
Board1s approval, under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to 
1/ 
MacGregor Park National Bank, Houston, Texas ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisi-
tion of the shares of Bank. 
Statutory considerations. - Texas Commerce controls one bank 
located in Houston, Texas, with deposits of $1.0 billion, representing 
per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. Applicant, 
the fourth largest banking organization in Texas and the second largest 
i/ At the time this application was filed, American General Insurance 
c°mpany, Houston, Texas, owned more than 32 per cent of the voting shares 
Texas Commerce Bancshares so that an acquisition of shares by Texas 
Commerce would constitute an indirect acquisition by American General, 
therefore, a separate application with respect to the acquisition of 
shares of Bank was filed by American General, as a bank holding company. 
However, during the period of the Board's consideration of these appli-
cations, American General effected a divestiture of its ownership and 
control of voting shares of Texas Commerce and has ceased to be a bank 
holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act. Accordingly, 
American General's application indirectly to acquire shares of Bank 
has been dismissed, as moot, by Order of the Board. 

95S 
-2-
in the Houston banking market, controls approximately 16 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in the Houston area. In addition, 
Applicant controls between 20 and 24.9 per cent of the voting shares 
of each of six other banks located in the Houston market and holding 
aggregate deposits of $157.6 million, representing 2.6 per cent of 
2/ 
commercial bank deposits in the Houston area. 
Upon acquisition of 
control of Bank ($26.9 million of deposits), Applicant's position 
in relation to the State's other banking organizations and holding 
companies would remain unchanged and Applicant's share of deposits in 
the State would increase only slightly. 
(All banking data are as of 
June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company acquisitions and formations 
through December 31, 1971.) 
Bank is located in the Houston banking market approximately 
5 miles south of Applicant's present subsidiary bank. Bank ranks 40th 
among 145 banks in the market and controls .4 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits there. The service area of Applicant's subsidiary bank 
completely overlaps Bank's service area and a significant amount of 
deposit and loan overlap exists between these banks. The amount of 
total deposits and loans obtained by Applicant's present subsidiary 
from Bank's service area equals 155 per cent, and 207 per cent, respec-
tively, of the deposits and loans derived from the same area by Bank. 
2/ Applicant has filed applications with the Board to acquire all of 
the remaining outstanding voting shares of each of three of these banks. 

959 
-4-
The Board has considered Applicant's contention that only 
an insignificant amount of competition exists between its present 
subsidiary bank and Bank because of the close working relationship 
which has existed since Bank was organized in 1954 by a group closely 
associated with Applicant's bank. Applicant points to the fact that 
5 Per cent of its shareholders own 65 per cent of the outstanding 
shares of Bank. However, the Board finds that Applicant does not con-
trol, own, or hold the power to vote any shares of Bank. Disaffiliation 
is a reasonable prospect; and, in fact, it appears that a substantial 
disaffiliation 
of Bank from the predecessor of Applicant's lead bank 
occurred in 1963 and such severence of common ties has continued to 
the present. Bank has experienced steady growth in the past several 
years and continues successfully to compete with banks of similar size 
in the relevant market. The Houston market has experienced a high rate 
growth during the past decade; and the forecast for continued growth 
in the market makes it very attractive for expansion by banking organi-
sations. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would represent an expansion 
of Applicant's already strong position in the Houston market and result 
in the loss of a viable, independent banking alternative. Approval of 
the proposed acquisition would eliminate Bank as a possible vehicle 
for 
entry by another bank holding company not presently competing in 
the Houston market. On the basis of the record before it, the Board 
concludes that approval of the application herein would lessen competition 
in the Houston area. 

960 
-4-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries is regarded 
as satisfactory, management capable and prospects seem favorable. 
The 
financial condition and management of Bank are deemed satisfactory and 
its future prospects appear favorable. 
These considerations, while 
consistent with approval of the application, provide no significant 
weight in support of such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the residents of the Houston banking market appear 
to be adequately served at the present time by existing institutions. 
Provision of trust services, international banking and other services 
which Applicant proposes to make available at Bank for the benefit of 
Bank's immediate service area, can be provided without acquisition of 
Bank. Although convenience and needs considerations lend some weight 
for approval, they do not outweigh the anticompetitive effects which 
would result from consummation of this proposed acquisition. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would have adverse effects on competition 
which are not outweighed by other considerations. 
Consummation of 
the proposal, therefore, would not be in the public interest and the 
application should be denied. 
April 11, 1972 

961 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN GENERAL INSURANCE COMPANY 
Order Dismissing Applications for Acquisition of Banks 
American General Insurance Company, Houston5 Texas ("Appli-
cant"), has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire indirectly 
(through Applicant's subsidiary, Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Houston, Texas) shares of each of six banks as listed below: 
1. 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The American 
National Bank of Beaumont, Beaumont, Texas. 
2. 37 per cent of the voting shares of Beaumont State 
Bank, Beaumont, Texas. 
3. 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to MacGregor 
Park National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas. 
4. 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Reagan State 
Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas. 
5. 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Airline Bank, 
Houston, Texas. 
6. 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to North Freeway 
Bank, Houston, Texas. 

SS2 
-2-
On the basis of the facts of record, including the following 
actions and commitments by American General: 
1. erxhange of all voting shares presently held of Texas 
Commerce for a new class of shares which, while held by American 
General, is nonvoting; 
2. a written commitment stating that when American 
General disposes of such nonvoting shares, it will do so 
only at a public offering underwritten by investment bankers 
and under an agreement that no purchaser either directly or 
indirectly may acquire at the sale shares aggregating more 
than 2 per cent of the then outstanding common stock of Texas 
Commerce; 
3. a written commitment that no director, officer or policy-
making employee of American General does or will serve in a similar 
capacity with Texas Commerce or any of its subsidiaries and American 
General will abstain from exercising any influence or control over 
Texas Commerce or any of its subsidiaries; 
4. 
a written commitment that no director, officer or policy-
making employee of American General, or a person owning 25 per cent 
or more of the shares of American General, or any combination of such 
persons, does or will own or control, directly or indirectly, 25 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Texas Commerce or any of its 
subsidiaries; 
5. a written commitment by American General for divestiture 
of all nonvoting shares of Texas Commerce by January 1, 19815 

the Board finds that Applicant has effected a divestiture of its 
ownership and control of the voting shares of Texas Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc., Houston, Texas, and has ceased to be a bank holding company for 
the purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. Accord-
ingly , the company's applications to acquire shares of the aforementioned 
banks are hereby dismissed as moot. 
The Board's findings and action herein are subject to amendment, 
revocation, or nullification by the Board should it conclude that 
American General exercises control or a controlling influence over 
Texas Commerce or any of its subsidiaries. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 11, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
A/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Maisel. 

Item No. 13 
4/11/72 
For immediate release 
April 12, 1972 
Attached is an expansion of a Concurring Statement 
of Governor Mitchell (in which Governor Sheehan joins) relating 
to the Board's actions of April 11 approving the application of 
Texas Commerce Bancshares, Inc., a Houston, Texas bank holding 
company, to acquire Beaumont State Bank, Beaumont, Texas, and 
denying its application to acquire American National Bank of 
Beaumont. 
Attachment 

CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS MITCHELL AND SHEEHAN 
We concur in the Board's action approving the entry of 
Te*as Commerce into the Beaumont banking market through acquisition 
one but not of two banks in that market. Acquisition of both 
African Bank and Beaumont State is unnecessary to bring the com-
petitive services of Texas Commerce into Beaumont. However, since 
We h 
Qo not believe the record establishes that Beaumont State is a 
S t a b l e entry vehicle for the type of service Commerce would bring 
t o Beaumont, limiting approval to that alternative may be tantamount 
t o denial of the application. 
If this is the case, in our opinion, 
th 
e Beaumont community will, in the short run and possibly in the 
longer run, suffer a loss in competitive banking environment. 
The 
potential for competition must be related not only to the likelihood 
tllat a given organization can develop as a viable competitor or that 
n e will enter the market in response to an apparent opportunity but 
a l s° to the period of time it takes either of these possibilities to 
d evel 0 p. 
- 0 -
