MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 3, 1970 

3037 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, November 3, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
American International Bank. At its meeting yesterday the 
Board had approved an application by American International Bank, New 
York, New York, for permission to acquire shares of Henry Ansbacher & Co., 
Limited, a merchant bank located in London, England. However, the letter 
of approval had not yet been sent to the applicant, and Governor Robertson 
now requested that the Board consider the application further because of 
misgivings that he had concerning the disposition of the matter. It 
was agreed that the case would be reviewed by the Board and that in the 
meantime the staff would prepare a memorandum discussing whether the 
action taken yesterday was in line with Board policy as reflected in its 
decisions on somewhat similar applications in the past. 
Balance of payments program. Governor Daane advised that he 
and Governor Brimmer had been invited to attend a meeting to be held 
at the Treasury on Thursday for the purpose of discussing a possible 
relaxation of the foreign direct investment program administered by the 

3 0 3 8 
11/3/70 
-2-
Department of Commerce. He asked whether Board members had views that 
he and Governor Brimmer should take into account in attending the 
meeting. 
Chairman Burns said he had taken a rather rigid position thus 
far that this was not the time to effect relaxation in the balance of 
payments program. Governor Daane concurred but noted that in the 
opinion of the Treasury it might be necessary to compromise somewhat 
in order to maintain the firmest position possible from the standpoint 
of the Government as a whole. Governor Brimmer said he had asked the 
staff to pull together a progress report on the current export financing 
survey and that he had asked the Treasury to share with the Board, to 
the extent possible, alternatives that the Commerce Department reportedly 
had in mind. 
Report by Governor Daane. Governor Daane reported to the Board 
briefly on his attendance at a meeting of Working Party 3 of the Organi-
zation for Economic Cooperation and Development. 
Discount rate. Question was raised about the timing of Board 
discussion of a possible reduction in the discount rate, and after some 
discussion it was understood that consideration of the matter would be 
contemplated early next week. Some Board members expressed a tentative 
view that action on the discount rate should preferably be deferred 
somewhat, but arguments also were presented in favor of action at an 
early date. It was stated that a staff memorandum on the subject would 
be available within the next few days. 

WW 
11/3/70 
-3-
The Chairman expressed views in favor of moving toward a policy 
of changing the discount rate more frequently and in smaller amounts, 
with a view to keeping the rate generally in line with short-term market 
interest rates, and it was noted that this would appear to suggest 
action on the discount rate at a rather early date. 
Question also was raised about the possibility of linking a 
change in the discount rate to announcement of a fundamental change in 
the discount mechanism. However, it was brought out that an announce-
ment in the latter regard would have to be preceded by considerable 
discussion and debate, presumably leading to a decision to publish 
proposals for comment. Doubt was expressed whether the timing of action 
on a change in the discount rate would permit the two moves to be linked, 
but it was understood that the possibility would be kept in mind. 
Review of significant issues. In a memorandum of October 9, 
1970, Governor Sherrill had recommended that the Board review with the 
division directors 39 issues, as described in attachments, that had 
been identified by the Program Planning and Budgeting Committee (and 
the division directors) for the purposes of (1) ascertaining those issues 
that the Board felt might pose significant policy questions or might 
result in a major change in the content or direction of existing programs; 
(2) deciding priorities to be accorded to the exploration and resolu-
tion of the issues resulting from the review; and (3) assigning 
analytical responsibilities to the appropriate divisions for those 

3 0 4 0 
11/3/70 
-4-
issues that were accorded a sufficiently high priority to call for 
exploration and/or resolution in the 1971 program planning and budget-
ing cycle. 
Governor Sherrill commented at today's meeting that this was 
a part of the management improvement program that had been started about 
two years ago, particularly the program planning and budgeting system. 
The use of such a system was being encouraged throughout the Government, 
and he believed that the Board had moved well ahead of most of the other 
agencies in applying the system. He reviewed the steps that had been 
taken and noted that identification of vital issues was a key step in 
the planning cycle. The Board's responsibilities had grown rapidly, 
and he foresaw a considerable increase in the budget simply to continue 
the programs now in place. Therefore, the problem was one of identify-
ing the most significant issues and assigning priorities. If the Board 
desired to emphasize certain areas and not others, that would provide 
guidance to the division directors in setting up the division budgets. 
The review of significant issues was occurring rather late this year, 
but other issues could be introduced at any time during the coming year. 
For those issues considered to deserve the highest priority, staff 
papers would be prepared, for use in connection with consideration of 
the 1971 budget, costing out the resources believed necessary for the 
undertaking of the work involved. Other issues would be costed out for 
inclusion in future budgets. 

3041 
11/3/70 
-5-
Board members observed that in some cases the issues discussed 
appeared to represent additional activities, but that this was not 
uniformly true. Also, a number of major activities of the respective 
divisions were not included on the list, and it was therefore rather 
difficult to envisage how the assignment of additional issues would 
affect programs already in process. Governor Sherrill replied that if 
all of the 39 issues on the list were accorded high priority the staff 
would be overwhelmed. The game plan called for activities presently 
under way to be continued to their conclusion. 
In light of the foregoing comments, Chairman Burns observed 
that what he sensed the Board would like to have, not today but in 
approaching the budgets, was a summary of the activities in which each 
division was currently engaged, with some indication as to whether each 
activity was a continuing one or was approaching completion, and then 
a summary of projected new activities. In that manner, the Board would 
be in a better position to assess the functioning of each division. 
Today's session, the Chairman said, would be understood to be 
essentially a planning session at which the Board would try to convey 
to Governor Sherrill and the division heads some indication of the 
intensity of the members' interest in the 39 issues included in 
Governor Sherrill's list. Board members might also suggest projects 
not included in the list. Governor Sherrill would then come back to 
the Board with an indication of resource requirements. 

3042 
11/3/70 
-6-
The following then entered the room: 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 

3043 
11/3/70 
-7-
Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended. 
First National Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting the Board's approval on October 22, 
1970, of the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The Security State Bank of 
Sterling, Sterling, Colorado. Copies are attached under Item No. 1. 
Southeast Bancorporation. The Board authorized the issuance 
of orders and a statement reflecting the Board's action on October 22, 
1970, denying the application of Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, Holly-
wood, Florida, and approving the applications of Southeast to acquire 
shares of The Bank of Hollywood Hills, Hollywood, Florida, and Bank of 
Miramar, Miramar, Florida. Attached under Item No. 2 are copies of the 
orders, the statement, and the statement of Governors Robertson and 
, 
- 
4 
Brimmer concurring in part and dissenting in part. 
BancOhio Corporation. The Board approved unanimously an 
application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares 
of the successor by merger to The First National Bank at East Palestine, 
East Palestine, Ohio, and authorized the issuance of an order reflect-
ing that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 

3044 
11/3/70 
-8-
Review of significant issues. As noted previously in these 
minutes, in a memorandum dated October 9, 1970, Governor Sherrill had 
submitted for Board review a list of 39 issues that had been identified 
by the Program Planning and Budgeting Committee (and the division 
directors), for the purpose of (1) determining which issues were con-
sidered most significant and urgent, (2) deciding priorities, and (3) 
assigning analytical responsibilities. It was understood that if the 
Board felt that particular projects were urgent, the staff would develop 
cost estimates for use in connection with the 1971 budget submissions, 
and that the development of resource estimates for other projects would 
be deferred. 
Because of time limitations, only two of the issues were discussed 
individually in detail at today's meeting. These involved contingency 
economic planning and relationships with the academic community. With 
respect to each of those two issues, Messrs. Holland, Partee, and Robert 
Solomon were requested to develop more specific proposals for Board 
consideration in the light of views expressed. 
Members of the Board then commented on the remaining issues that 
had been listed and, for the guidance of Governor Sherrill and the staff, 
each member indicated which of those issues in his opinion deserved high 
priority. Certain additional issues, not listed, were also introduced 
for consideration. 

3045 
11/3/70 
-9-
It was agreed that Governor Sherrill would work with the staff, 
on the basis of the views expressed, in preparing follow-up material 
for the Board's consideration on the items generally regarded as urgent, 
particularly in connection with the 1971 budget submissions. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3 0 4 6 
Item No. 1 
11/3/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, 
INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more cf the voting shares of 
The Security State Bank of Sterling, 
Sterling, Colorado. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
Inc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of The Security State Bank of Sterling, Sterling, 
Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Colorado State Banking 

3047 
±2-
I • 
Commissioner, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner replied on behalf of the State Banking Board that 
they offered no objection to approval of the application.. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register en July 25, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12040), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. The time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered» For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 3, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

3048 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE SECURITY STATE BANK OF STERLING, STERLING, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Security 
State Bank of Sterling, Sterling, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
cne application to the Colorado State Banking Commissioner and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Commissioner replied on behalf of the 
State Banking Board that they offered no objection to approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 

3049 
-2-
of the United States. Nor may the Bo^rd approve a proposed Acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section 6f the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the second largest bank holding company and the second largest banking 
organization in Colorado, controls five banks with aggregate deposits 
of $570 million, representing 14.5 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in the S t a t e d 
On acquisition of Bank ($23 million deposits), 
Applicant would remain the second largest banking organization and holding 
company, and its share of deposits would be increased by less than 1 per cent. 
Bank is located in Sterling, Logan County (county population 
18,390) which is 120 miles northeast of Denver. It is the largest of 
four banks in the county, holding 53 per cent of the deposits therein. 
y a h banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date, including 
Applicant's acquisition of First National Bank of Greeley ($40 million 
deposits) which was approved by the Board on June 9, 1970. Consummation 
of that acquisition has been delayed by litigation instituted by the 
Department of Justice. 

3050 
-3-
Bank is over 100 miles from any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. In 
the light of the distances involved and the State law prohibiting branch 
banking, consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate 
substantial present competition nor foreclose significant potential 
competition between Bank and Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
In connection with its review of the application, the Board 
has considered a view expressed by the Department of Justice that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition "would have a significantly 
adverse effect on competition.11 Specifically, the Department took the 
position that the proposal would entrench the present concentrated 
banking structure in Logan County in that it would eliminate the possibility 
that Applicant might enter the market either through the establishment 
of a new bank or acquisition of a smaller bank, or that Bank might make 
a significant addition to a new holding company seeking statewide coverage. 
The Department also expressed concern that approval of the proposal 
wight trigger further acquisitions of leading local banks throughout 
Colorado by the large State-wide holding companies. 
On the facts of the present case, the Board disagrees with 
that analysis. Despite Bank's relative size, it does not appear to 
dominate area banking; the second largest bank in the County has nearly 
doubled in size since 1960, and the third largest, which was organized 
in 1962, now has more than $7 million, or 17 per cent of the County's 
deposits. Moreover, even if Applicant's entry de novo, or by acquisition 
o f a smaller bank might ordinarily be competitively preferable, there 

3051 
-4-
are circumstances in the present case which point toward a contrary 
conclusion. Not only is thete no evidence to suggest that 
Applicant would pursue such a course, but objective data appear to 
indicate that entry through alternative means is unlikely. The 
population-to-bank ratio in the County is less than half the State 
average, and the preliminary 1970 census indicates a decreasing 
population. With respect to the possibility of entry through a smaller 
acquisition, there is evidence that there are no other banks available 
for acquisition which would permit Applicant to achieve a meaningful 
competitive posture in the area; over and above that, however, the 
desirability of such alternatives must be considered in the light of 
the close relationship that has existed between Bank and Applicant's 
largest subsidiary (First National of Denver) for over 45 years. The 
Executive Vice President of First National and his close relatives control 
90 per cent of the stock of Bank. It does not appear that the ends of 
competition would be served if Applicant owned one bank in Sterling and 
its Executive Vice President owned another. 
In light of the above circumstances, the Board concludes that 
the consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States, and 
would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition or tend to 
create a monopoly in any section of the country. 

3052 
-5-
Financlal and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank is 
presently satisfactory and the prospects of each are favorable. The 
management of Applicant and its subsidiaries is competent. Depth in 
management of Bank is somewhat lacking and affiliation with Applicant 
would tend to assure competent management succession for Bank through 
Applicant's staffing and training facilities. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors land tfcighfc in favor 
of approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities concerned. - Logan 
County's economy is dependent on a four-pronged agriculture base—cattle 
ranching, cattle feeding, raising irrigated cash crops, and raising wheat. 
Applicant intends to provide a more formal and permanent allocation of 
funds necessary to meet and sustain the large credit needs which a 
Progressive agricultural economy demands. Additionally, through the 
affiliation, Applicant plans to supply Bank's customers with services 
available only from larger banking organizations. For example, Applicant 
proposes to augment Bank's trust services through tax consultation and 
investment advice. 
The convenience and needs factors lend additional weight in 
favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 

-6-
3053 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
November 3, 1970. 

3054 
Item No. 2 
11/3/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, 
Hollywood, Florida. 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR ACQUISITION 
OF BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842 
(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), 
a n application by Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, a registered 
bank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
SO per cent or more of the voting shares of Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, 
Hollywood, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for the 
State of Florida and requested his views and recoirmendation. The Deputy 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

-20-
3055 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 12, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12804), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 3, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3056 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
1 
Miami, Florida, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
The Bank of Hollywood Hills, Hollywood, 
' 
Florida. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., 
Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f The Bank of Hollywood Hills, Hollywood, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 
the State of Florida and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Deputy Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

3057 
-22-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 12, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12804), provid-
ing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and all those received have been considered 
by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 3, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SjBAty 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

3058 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Bank of Miramar, Miramar, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., 
Miami, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f Bank of Miramar, Miramar, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 
State of Florida and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Deputy Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

-24-
3059 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 12, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12804), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired, and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
ptovided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 3, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A.. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

3060 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION, INC., MIAMI, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF (1) HOLLYWOOD BANK 
AND TRUST COMPANY, HOLLYWOOD, (2) THE BANK OF HOLLYWOOD HILLS, HOLLYWOOD, 
AND BANK OF MIRAMAR, MIRAMAR, ALL IN FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of each of the following three Florida 
banks: (1) Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, Hollywood ("Hollywood Bank"); 
(2) The Bank of Hollywood Hills, Hollywood ("Kills Bank"); and (3) Bank 
Miramar, Miramar ("Miramar Bank"). 
Each of the applications has been considered separately by the 
Board and is the subject of a separate Board Order. However, since many 
°f the facts and circumstances involved are common to the three applications, 
t^is Statement contains the Board's findings and conclusions with respect 
t o each of the applications. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
le applications to the Commissioner of Banking for the State of Florida 

3061 
-2-
and requested his views and recommendation. The Deputy Commissioner 
recommended approval of all three applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
in the public interest by the probable effcct of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case, 
the Board is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the corrmunity to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transactions. - Applicant, the 
second largest banking organization in Florida, controls eight banks which 
hold deposits of approximately $812 million, or 6.6 per cent of total 
1/ 
commercial deposits in the State. 
Acquisition of the three banks involved 
would increase Applicant's control of Statewide deposits to 7.4 per cent, 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect 
acquisitions heretofore approved by the Board, including those of Southeast 
National Bank of Orlando, Orlando, Florida, Citizens Bank of Brevard, 
Melbourne, Florida, and The First National Bank of Satellite Beach, Satellite 
Beach, Florida. 

-3-
3062 
and Applicant would continue to be the State's second largest banking 
organization and the second largest of 18 holding companies in the State, 
Such increase in banking concentration at the State level is not regarded 
by itself as significant. 
The relevant market area is considered to be the southern 
one-third of Broward County, or the Hollywood Metropolitan area, with an 
estimated population of over 212,000. Hollywood is the seventh largest 
city in Florida and, during the last decade, the Hollywood area has 
experienced a rapid growth in population, income, and employment. It appears 
likely that the trend of economic expansion will continue; and the area is 
regarded as attractive for entry. 
Hollywood Bank with deposits of $65 million, Pills Bank with 
$27 million, and Miramar Bank with $2.5 million are generally referred to 
as the Mailman Group; and all three banks serve the Hollywood market. 
Applicant states that the two smaller banks were sponsored by the directors 
°f Hollywood Bank and were formed to offer convenient services to customers 
°f Hollywood Bank and to other persons in the respective local residential 
communities where the smaller banks are located. Apparently, because of 
common ownership and management, there is no real competition among the 
three banks. 
In the relevant market, there are ten banks representing six 
°rganizations. of which the four largest hold roughly 85 per cent of area 
deposits. The Mailman Group constitutes the largest banking organization 
i n the market area and controls close to 28 per cent of the total deposits 
there. On the basis of deposits, Hollywood Lank ranks second and controls 

-4-
3063 
over 19 per cent of the deposits in the market; Hills Bank ranks sixth 
with control of approximately 8 per cent; and Miramar Bank ranks ninth 
with control of less than 1 per cent. 
Applicant is headquartered, and is the dominant banking 
organization,in Dade County, which is directly south of and contiguous to 
Broward County. Applicant's lead bank, First National Bank of Miami, 
located 20 miles from Hollywood, is the largest single banking institution 
in the State (deposits of $713 million), is more than four times greater 
in deposit size than any of its competitors and holds more than 25 per cent 
of Dade County commercial bank deposits. The record shows that First 
National Bank of Miami derives approximately $6 million in deposits, and 
Nore than $3 million in loans, from the Hollywood area. These amounts 
represent, respectively, 7 per cent and 10 per cent of Hollywood Bank's 
total dollar deposits and loans; and Hollywood Bank obtains 3.7 per cent 
2/ 
o f its IPC 
deposits and over 21 per cent of its total dollar loans from 
the Dade County market. Also, Applicant solicits successfully for trust 
and credit card accounts in both Dade County and South Broward County 
markets. 
Another subsidiary of Applicant, Everglades Bank and Trust Company, 
i s located in the Fort Lauderdale market, which is in Broward County and 
adjacent to the Hollywood area on its northern boundary. This subsidiary 
deposits af fipptaxin^fcel^ $.2S million, is Ideated abotiS nine miles 
2 / - ~ 
Individual, partnership and corporation. 

-5-
3064 
from Hollywood Bank, derives sornp business from the Hollywood market 
and is in a position to offer further competition in that market. In 
sum, Applicant's subsidiaries currently derive some business from the 
Hollywood market, and Applicant's competitive strength in markets contig-
uous to the Hollywood area make Applicant one of the most likely entrants 
into that attractive market. In the Board's judgment, the acquisition of 
all three proposed subsidiaries or of Hollywood Bank would eliminate present 
competition and would foreclose significant potential competition. Unless 
these anticompetitive effects are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served, approval of the proposed acquisition 
°f all three banks or of Hollywood Bank would not be justified under the 
standards of the Bank Holding Company Act and would not be in the public 
interest. 
The record shows that Applicant is capable of entry into the 
Hollywood market on a much smaller scale than Applicant has proposed. The 
acquisition of Hills Bank and Miramar Bank (or of either of these two 
smaller banks), which together control less than 9 per cent of deposits in 
the relevant market, would sever the relationship among the three Mailman 
banks, would increase the likelihood of competition among them, and would 
give Applicant an entry into but not a dominant position in the market. 
The procompetitive considerations that would arise out of severing the 
relationships among the Mailman banks would offset any lessening of compe-
tition that would result from Applicant's acquisition of the two smaller 
banks involved. 

3065 
-6-
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Data presented reflect a satisfactory financial condition for Applicant 
and its subsidiary banks. Management is considered competent and prospects 
are regarded as favorable. 
All three banks in the Mailman Group are in satisfactory condition. 
Management appears to be satisfactory. Prospects are regarded as good. 
The banking factors relating to the proposed acquisitions are 
satisfactory and consistent with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the cotrmunities involved. - Consummation 
°f the proposed acquisitions would have no effect on the convenience and 
needs of customers located in the areas served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries. 
Banking needs of the South Broward market area appear to be 
adequately served at present. Proposed benefits offered by Applicant in-
clude the providing of greater lending capacity, additional mortgage funds, 
improved trust facilities and the introduction of credit card facilities 
at the Mailman banks. Applicant would be the second holding company to 
enter the Hollywood market. The benefits contemplated by Applicant for 
an area that is expected to experience significant growth and a need for 
expanded banking services constitute a favorable consideration in support 
0 
approval of the applications. However, the gains under the convenience 
and needs factor do not outweigh the anticompetitive effects of the acqui-
sition of all three banks or of Hollywood Bank. 

-7-
3066 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts in 
the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of 
the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition of 
Hollywood Bank or of all three banks in the Mailman Group would have a 
significantly adverse effect on competition without offsetting benefits 
under the convenience and needs factors or the banking factors; but that 
the acquisition of Hills Bank and Miramar Bank, or either of them, would 
promote competition in the relevant market without serious anticompetitive 
effects and would serve the convenience and needs of the area. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that: 
(1) The proposed acquisition of Hollywood Bank or of all three 
Mailman banks would not be in the public interest and the application re-
lating to Hollywood Bank should be denied; 
(2) The proposed acquisition of Hills Bank and Miramar Bank, or 
°f either of them, would be in the public interest and the applications 
Elating to those two banks should be approved. 
November 3, 1970. 

3067 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
CONCURRING IN PART AND DISSENTING IN PART 
We concur in the Board's actions denying the application 
for the acquisition of stock of Hollywood Bank and Trust Company and 
approving the application for the acquisition of stock of Bank of Miramar. 
However, we dissent from the Board's action on the application relating 
to The Bank of Hollywood Hills ("Hills Bank"). We would deny that 
application. 
Applicant is the dominant banking organization in Dade County, 
which is south of and contiguous to the Hollywood market, the area served 
by Hills Bank. Also, Applicant has a substantial subsidiary in the Fort 
Lauderdale banking market which adjoins the Hollywood market on its 
northern boundary. The record shows that these subsidiaries, particularly 
Applicant's lead bank, which is located in Miami and is the State's largest 
banking institution, already compete in the Hollywood area to some extent 
and are in a position to increase competition in that area, an area with 
attractive growth potential. 
Acquisition of control of Hills Bank would tend to eliminate 
lessen existing competition between that bank and Applicant's present 
subsidiaries and preclude the development of significant future competition. 
are opposed to an acquisition that would enable Applicant to extend its 
dominance into an adjacent banking market through the acquisition of a 
bank of substantial size and strength. And it must be remembered that, 
in the context of the Florida banking structure, a $27 million bank is 

-33-
3 0 6 8 
above the median in terms of deposits. In our judgment, the acquisition 
would be significantly anticompetitive and not in the public interest. 
And we find no considerations of convenience or needs in the community 
to be served that are sufficiently compelling to outweigh the anti-
competitive effects described herein. Applicant's entry into the 
Hollywood market through the acquisition of the stock of the Miramar 
bank ($2.5 million of deposits), which the Board has approved today, 
is viewed as a toehold acquisition or one that is comparable to a de 
novo expansion. In these circumstances, that transaction is likely to 
enhance competition in the Hollywood market without any serious anti-
competitive effects and would provide a vehicle for Applicant to furnish 
the benefits it proposes for the area. However, the record offers no 
considerations that warrant Applicant's entry into that market through 
the acquisition of a bank of the size and capability of Hills Bank. 
November 3 1970. 

9 
3069 
Item No. 3 
11/3/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, 
COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of the successor by merger to 
The First National Bank at East Palestine, 
East Palestine, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, 
Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Ptior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the voting shares of a new national bank into 
which would be merged The First National Bank at East Palestine, 
East Palestine, Ohio ("Bank"). The new national bank has significance 
°nly as a means of acquiring all of the shares of the bank to be 
merged into it. 

3070 
-35-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 22, 1970 (35 Federal Register 14746), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
end views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
°f the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
end the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
s*ich consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization and the 
bank holding company in Ohio, controlling 25 banks with deposits 
totaling $1.4 billion, representing 7 per cent of deposits held by 
banking organizations in Ohio. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Applicant's acquisition 
°f Bank, with deposits of $10 million, would increase its share of 

3071 
-3-
deposits in the State by less than 1 per cent. The area served by 
Bank is Columbiana County, where no bank holding company is presently 
represented. Bank is comparable in size to the two other banks serving 
the same area which hold deposits of $8 and $7 million, respectively. 
Bank is the sixth largest of the 10 county banks, the largest of which 
holds 30 per cent of county deposits, and the second and third largest 
hold 18 and 17 per cent, respectively. The closest office of any of 
Applicant's subsidiary banks to Bank is located 50 miles northeast of 
East Palestine,and there are 54 banking offices and another county 
situated in the intervening area. Applicant's subsidiary banks do not 
compete with Bank, and it does not appear that significant future compe-
tition would be foreclosed by consummation of this proposal due to the 
distances separating the banks and limitations placed on branching by 
°hio laws. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competi-
tion in any relevant area. The banking factors as they pertain to 
Applicant, its present subsidiary banks, and Bank are consistent with 
aPproval of the application. Consummation of the proposal would enable 
B«nk to more easily service loan requests in excess of its present lend-
in8 limit and to offer specialized services (such as trust and interna-
tional services) not presently available to residents of the East 
destine area. These considerations lend additional weight in favor 
o f approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
w°uld be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
Approved. 

3072 
- 4 -
It is hereby ordered, For Che reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 3, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
