PR 609 
<Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
17 
1Q71 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No change from draft minutes 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 17, 1971. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
I/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Bryant, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

207 
8/17/71 
-2-
The staff presented a review of selected economic and financial 
developments abroad and in the United States following the President's 
August 15 announcement of a new economic program. 
Staff members who had attended for the purpose of the review 
then withdrew from the meeting. Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division, 
Mr. Lyon of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, Mrs. Semia of 
the Office of the Secretary, and appropriate supporting staff entered 
the room for consideration of the agenda items referred to hereinafter. 
Consent calendar. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter 
(copy attached as Item No. 1) granting consent to Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, New York, New York, to purchase shares of 
Wells Fargo Ltd., London, England, directly or through a subsidiary. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 2) to Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, Boston, Massa-
chusetts, granting consent to continue to hold shares of Sociedad 
Anonima de Servicios e Inversiones, S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina, 
after the latter acquires shares of International Factors S.A., also 
of Buenos Aires. 
A letter (copy attached as Item No. 3) to Continental Inter-
national Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting consent to 
purchase shares of Thailand Merchant Bank, Bangkok, Thailand, was 
approved unanimously. 

21068 
8/17/71 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached as 
Item No. 4) to Commonwealth Bank and Trust Company of Virginia, 
Sterling, Virginia, approving its application for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of United 
Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to The First National Bank of Princeton, Princeton, New Jersey, 
and authorized issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 5) re-
flecting this decision. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of United Bank 
Shares, Inc., El Paso, Texas, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to Southwest National 
Bank of El Paso, El Paso, Texas, and authorized issuance of an order 
(copy attached as Item No. 6) reflecting this decision. 
A draft letter to Mocatta Metals Corporation, New York City, 
prepared pursuant to the Board's request on August 3, 1971, concerning 
the counting of silver coins as reserves had been placed on the consent 
calendar. 
However, certain questions about the letter were raised, and 
the matter was deferred for consideration at a later time. 
Federal Advisory Council. 
In a memorandum dated August 11, 
1971, the Office of the Secretary described plans made at Chairman 
Burns' suggestion for an afternoon program and evening dinner to be 
held on November 4, 1971, to which all current and former members of 

20C 
8/17/71 
-4-
the Federal Advisory Council would be invited. 
It was planned to give 
the dinner at a local hotel, at an estimated cost of $1,500. 
Discussion indicated agreement with a suggestion that former 
members of the Board be included, and with minor program changes pro-
posed by the staff. 
The plans were approved unanimously. 
Conference of business directors. 
In a memorandum dated 
August 13, 1971, the Office of the Secretary proposed, in order to 
make more effective use of the special skills and experience of 
Federal Reserve Bank and branch directors who are business executives, 
that a conference be held in September 1971 in which the Board would 
meet with one director from each Federal Reserve District, selected 
by the Reserve Bank. 
The memorandum described background from which 
the proposal had developed and suggested guiding principles for the 
selections to be made by the Reserve Banks. 
After discussion, the holding of the conference was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that 24, rather than 12, directors 
would be invited and that the conference would be considered an 
experiment, with no commitment for similar meetings in the future. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew from the meeting. 
A number of 
staff members also withdrew at this point and returned to the meeting 
after consideration of Federal Reserve director selections. 

8/17/71 
-5-
Director appointments. 
It was agreed to ascertain through 
the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York whether Mr. Alan 
Pifer, President, Carnegie Corporation, New York, New York, would 
accept appointment if tendered as a Class C director of the New York 
Reserve Bank for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31, 
1973, with the understanding that if it was found that he would 
accept, the appointment would be made. 
(Note: 
Inquiry had been made as to whether Mr. Thomas J. 
Watson, Jr., would accept the appointment to fill the existing 
vacancy. ^However, it developed that Mr. Watson wished to delay his 
decision for some weeks, and it was considered desirable to fill the 
vacancy at this time. Another vacancy on the New York Board was 
expected to occur at the end of 1971.) 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether Mr. John C. Tune, Jr., a partner in 
the law firm of Butler, McHugh, Butler, Tune & Watts, Nashville, 
Tennessee, would accept appointment if tendered as a director of the 
Nashville Branch of the Atlanta Reserve Bank for the unexpired portion 
of the term ending December 31, 1972, to succeed Mr. Roy J. Fisher, 
who had resigned, with the understanding that if Mr. Tune would accept, 
the appointment would be made. 
It Mr. Tune was not available, it was 
agreed that similar steps should be taken with regard to Mr. Robert 
Baltz, Jr., President, Baltz Brothers Packing Company, Nashville, 
Tennessee. 

2071 
8/17/71 
-6-
(Note: 
It having been ascertained that Mr. Tune would accept, an appoint-
ment telegram was sent to him on August 20, 1971.) 
Equipment leasing by Edge corporations. 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, had requested rescis-
sion of the leasing restrictions pertaining to full payout leases in 
the Board's letter of November 12, 1970, regarding the reorganization 
of the corporation's Argentine subsidiary. 
In a memorandum of August 3, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the 
Board's policy on overseas leasing operations by Edge corporations and 
their subsidiaries be clarified through a published interpretation that 
would be in harmony with the position recently adopted regarding domes-
tic leasing subsidiaries of bank holding companies. 
A draft of such 
an interpretation was attached. 
The interpretation was approved unanimously; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 7. Copies of the interpretation were sent to Boston Over-
seas Financial Corporation and to other Edge corporations with foreign 
leasing subsidiaries. 
Adela Investment Company. Attorneys for Adela Investment 
Company S.A. had inquired about the possible effect on Edge corporations 
that owned interests in the company of proposed direct or indirect 
minority investments by the company in Arguay, Inc., and similar enter-
prises. Arguay was a Delaware corporation that would engage in the 
business of advising Argentine and Uruguayan manufacturers of clothing 

2072 
8/17/71 
-7-
and textile styles appropriate for the U.S., supervise the manufacture 
of these items from the standpoint of quality control, and purchase 
the items and resell them to retailers in the U.S., but only after the 
receipt of purchase orders. 
The basic question was the effect of paragraph 8 of the Edge 
Act, which prohibits investments by an Edge corporation in another 
company engaged in the general business of selling merchandise in the 
U.S. or^transacting any business in the U.S. that is not incidental 
to the company's international business. 
In a memorandum dated July 27, 1971, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation recommendedithat no objection be raised. 
The 
Edge corporations that had invested in Adela held only minority interests, 
and Adela would be a minority shareholder of Arguay. 
The resulting 
connection between the Edge corporations and Arguay would be so remote 
as to preclude legal or policy objections. 
However, the New York 
Reserve Bank recommended a negative determination. 
The Legal Division, in a memorandum of August 11, differed to 
some extent with the rationale advanced by the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, but expressed the view that if the Board concluded that 
Adela did not control Arguay and, further, that such investments by 
Adela did not constitute a significant portion of Adela's business, the 
application was legally permissible and could be approved. 

207 
8/17/71 
-8-
A majority of the Board members present indicated a negative 
view on the ground that the proposed arrangement involved doing 
business within the U.S. that was not incidental to international or 
foreign business. However, there was agreement with a suggestion that 
action be deferred until additional members could participate. 
Boatmen's Bancshares. 
The application of Boatmen's Bancshares, 
Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank of O'Fallon, 
0'Fallon, Missouri, had been withdrawn from the consent calendar on 
August 12, 1971, because of a question raised regarding the premium 
being paid. 
At today's meeting Mr. Leavitt commented on the range of 
premiums paid and the motives that made banks or bank holding companies 
willing to pay them. Staff had reviewed the circumstances attending 
the present application and concluded that although the premium was 
high, it could be afforded. 
The applicant was apparently willing to 
pay the premium because the O'Fallon bank had good potential and was 
located in a rapidly-growing area. 
The possibility of State legislation 
that would foreclose future holding company expansion also was a con-
sideration. 
Staff did not believe an effort to achieve monopoly was 
present. 
The ensuing discussion indicated continued concern regarding 
the premium. Although a majority of the members present expressed 

8/17/71 
-9-
tentative willingness to vote for approval, there was agreement that 
it would be helpful to see a draft of comments on this point that could 
be included in the Board's order. 
Action was therefore deferred. 
Alameda Bancorporation. 
The Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation, in a memorandum dated July 29, 1971, recommended approval of 
the application of Alameda Bancorporation, Inc., Alameda, California, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of 
Alameda First National Bank, Alameda, California. 
The proposed forma-
tion was essentially a reorganization and reincorporation in Delaware 
of an existing holding company incorporated in California. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement upon 
deletion from the draft order of paragraphs relating to the statutory 
factors, the application was approved unanimously and issuance of an 
order (in revised form) reflecting this decision was authorized. 
A copy 
of the document is attached as Item No. 8. 
Ellis Banking Corporation. 
The consent calendar for August 12, 
1971, listed the application of Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, 
Florida, to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
of 15 banks in Florida. 
A question raised by Governor Mitchell regard-
ing equal treatment for all shareholders at each of the banks involved 
was explored by the staff, and in a memorandum of August 16 the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation presented figures indicating that all 
shareholders would receive the same treatment. 

Assistant Secretary 
207S 
h 
. " * 
fU 
8/17/71 
-10-
f 
At today's meeting the application was approved unanimously 
and the issuance of an order and statement reflecting that decision 
was authorized. 
Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 9. 
Wyoming Bancorporation. 
The Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation, in a memorandum dated August 4, 1971, recommended approval of 
the application of Wyoming Bancorporation, Cheyenne, Wyoming, to 
acquire shares of First National Bank of Jackson Hole, Jackson, Wyoming, 
a proposed new bank. 
ft! 
After a discussion, during which there was agreement upon 
a change in the draft order, the application was approved unanimously 
and the issuance of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
ISi 
f] 
VI 
t>: 
4 
y< 
21

I 
2078 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
Item No. 1 
8/17/71 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
^f-RES^ 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1971 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
Corporation 
40 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 16, 1971, as amended, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("WFBIC") 
to purchase and hold either directly or indirectly through Wells 
Fargo International Investment Corporation ("WFIIC") all of the 
outstanding shares of Wells Fargo Ltd. ("WFL"), London, England, 
at a cost of approximately $5,000,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
In this 
connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of 
shares of WFL in excess of 15 per cent of your Corporation's capital 
and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of WFL by WFBIC or WFIIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if WFL shall in any manner engage in any 
activity or take any action whatsoever that would not 
be permissible if WFL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act not 
"engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
WFBIC will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of WFL as it may require from time to time; 
and, 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WFL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if WFL were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
( c ) of Regulation K. 
The Board also grants consent for WFBIC or WFIIC to continue 
to hold the shares of WFL after WFL issues and has outstanding debt 
obligations with maturities in excess of one year, up to a total 
$5,000,000. 
You have requested consent for WFL to engage in the busi-
ness of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board has deter-
mined that such activities are usual in the business of banking in 
England. 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned upon 
your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the 
continued holding of shares of WFL should WFL acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 
25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except in the case 
underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from sub-
underwriters or other purchasers. 
With respect to trading in secu-
rities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the 
Provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that WFL will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, 
maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
ke reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. 
However, they 
a r e to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
a cquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Wells Fargo Bank National Association 
and its subsidiaries, and that full consideration is being given to 

2078 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
-3-
the priorities for U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit 
needs of developing countries. 
It is further understood that the 
foreign lending and investment activities of WFIIC will be governed 
by the Guidelines, in particular by those provisions which call for 
the foreign assets of WFIIC, minus outstanding amounts of foreign 
borrowings by WFIIC of an original maturity of three years or more, 
to be consolidated with the foreign assets of your Corporation for 
the purposes of the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L„ Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2079 
Item No. 2 
8/17/71 
A O D R E S3 S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 18, 1971 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
67 Milk Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Gentlemen: 
A s requested in your letter of July 8, 1971, the Board of 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") to continue 
to hold the shares of Sociedad Anonima de Servicios e Inversiones, 
S«A. ("SASIN"), Buenos Aires, Argentina, after SASIN purchases all 
the shares of International Factors S.A. ("IFSA"), Buenos Aires, 
Arg entina, at a cost of approximately $20,000, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of IFSA by SASIN is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in IFSA if IFSA at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if IFSA establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Argentina or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of IFSA as it may require from time 
to time; 
and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by IFSA be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if IFSA were a corporation organized 
under Section 2.5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

— 
—
—
_
_
—
_
—
_
— 
-
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
2 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by IFSA in Argentina 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
Association, and By-Laws of IFSA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of SASIN and will 
n o t involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, 
from the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
2080 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

/'o'ot coV; • 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2081 
Item No. 3 
8/17/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
August 18, 1971 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
23l South La Salle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
A s requested in your letter of June 23, 1971, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIFC") to pur-
chase and hold up to 7 5 per cent of the shares of Thailand Merchant 
Bank ("1MB"), Bangkok, Thailand, at a total cost of up to approx-
imately $375,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of TMB by CIFC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) 
That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in TMB if TMB at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if TMB establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Thailand or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to CIFC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of TMB as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by TMB be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if TMB were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

I 
2082 
r '' ' I 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
i - y . . . ' • 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by TMB in Thailand in 
the currency of that country. 
It is understood that the activities of TMB will include 
underwriting and distribution of capital issues. 
The Board's consent 
to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining 
the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares 
of TMB should TMB acquire stock of individual issuers costing in 
excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent of the voting shares 
any company, except in the case of underwriting operations covered 
by firm commitments from sub-underwriters or other purchasers. 
With 
Respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are prohibited 
f^om investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned 
0 n the fact that TMB will acquire such shares only as dealer or under-
writer, maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K„ 
However, they 
a r e to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
v e s t e d by the Board 0 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of TMB. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Continental Illinois National Bank and 
^ u s t Company of Chicago and its subsidiaries, and that full con-
sideration is being given to the priorities for U.S. export financing 
and for meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2 0 8 3 
Item No. 4 
8/17/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Commonwealth Bank and 
Trust Company of Virginia 
Sterling, Virginia 
Gentlemenl 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Commonwealth Bank and Trust Company 
of Virginia, Sterling, Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Richmond effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of its 
business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to member-
ship . 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
, corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $1,000,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$500,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
208*?. 
TO: 
Board of Directors 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any w a y the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. 
A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Arrange-
ments will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the 
required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosure 

2085 
Item No. 5 
8/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
1 
Hackensack, New Jersey, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 100 
' 
per cent of the voting shares (less 
' 
directors' qualifying shares) of 
' 
the successor by merger to The First 
' 
National Bank of Princeton, 
' 
Princeton, New Jersey. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Princeton, 
Princeton, New Jersey ("First National"). 
(First National is to be 
merged into a nonoperating bank that has significance only as a vehicle 
to accomplish acquisition of all the shares of First National; accordingly, 
acquisition of the shares of the successor bank is treated as an acqui-
sition of shares of First National.) 

-2-
2GSG 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 1, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12562), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. 
A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant controls five banks with approximately $777 million 
in deposits, representing 5.2 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in New Jersey. 
(Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, unless 
otherwise noted, and reflect holding company acquisitions approved 
through July 31, 1971.) Upon consummation of this proposal, Applicant's 
share of State-wide deposits would be increased to 5.7 per cent, but 
its rank as the second largest banking organization in the State would 
remain unchanged. 

2087 
-3-
First National ($79 million in deposits), on the basis of its 
control of about 8 per cent of the deposits in the market (as of June 30, 
1970), is the third largest of the 27 banking organizations in the 
Trenton banking market, consisting of Mercer County and surrounding 
towns in Pennsylvania and New Jersey. 
First National operates four 
offices in the County and has received approval to open a fifth in 
South Brunswick (Middlesex County). 
The two larger banking organiza-
tions control about 45 per cent of market deposits. 
There is no significant competition between First National 
and any of Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
No banking office 
in Applicant's system is located nearer than 34 miles to an office 
of First National. 
In view of more attractive branching opportunities 
in or near its market, it is unlikely that First National would branch 
into the market areas of Applicant's subsidiary banks. 
Only two of 
Applicant's subsidiary banks are permitted under New Jersey law to 
branch into First National's area, and the likelihood of either 
doing so is remote. 
Each is a retail-oriented bank serving a limited 
local area, and there is little incentive to branch so far from its 
service area. 
The large number of participants in the Trenton banking 
market and the relatively low population per banking office ratio 
would seem to make it unattractive to Applicant to establish a de novo 
bank there. 
Therefore, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
proposal would not have a significant adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. 

2088 
-4-
The banking factors are generally satisfactory and are 
consistent with approval of the application. Applicant has recently 
placed a multi-million dollar note issue, and it is expected that 
part of the proceeds would be available to meet the capital needs of 
First National as they arise. Through affiliation with Applicant, 
First National would be able to offer to residents of the area a 
complete line of banking services, including data processing and 
international banking services. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposal would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following 
the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant 
to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
[SEAL] 

2089 
Item No. 6 
8/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED BANK SHARES, INC., 
' 
El Paso, Texas, 
' 
for approval of action to become a bank 
1 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
' 
(less directors1 qualifying shares) of 
' 
the successor by merger to Southwest 
1 
National Bank of El Paso, El Paso, Texas, 1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C* 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Bank Shares, Inc. 
("Applicant"), El Paso, Texas, for the Board's prior approval 
of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors1 qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to Southwest 
National Bank of El Paso ("Bank"), El Paso, Texas, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

2090 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 1, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12562), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
purpose of acquiring Bank ($63.1 million deposits). (All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through'-June 30, 1971.) Upon 
consummation of the proposal, Applicant will assume Bank's present 
position as the third largest banking organization in the El Paso 
market with 11.4 per cent of commercial bank deposits in that market. 
As applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, consummation 
of this proposal would eliminate neither existing nor potential com-
petition nor does it appear that there would be any adverse effects 
on any bank in the market area. 

' 
2GSI 
-3- ' 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Bank 
» 
' i > 
are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval as would be 
those of Applicant upon approval. Consummation of the proposal would 
have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the community 
involved, but should enable Applicant to respond to the increasing 
needs of the growing El Paso market by offering new and expanded 
services in banking and bank-related activities. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved# 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1971* 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
[SEAL] 
27 

TITLE 12--BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
PART 211—CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN 
FOREIGN BANKING AND FINANCING UNDER 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
Leas ing 
S 211.106 Leasing of personal property and equipment. 
(a) A question has been raised with the Board as to 
the extent to which a corporation organized under section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act (an "Edge corporation") may engage„ 
directly or indirectly, in leasing personal property and equip-
ment. 
Pursuant to section 25(a) cf the Federal Reserve Act, 
Edge corporations are organized for the purpose of engaging 
in international or foreign banking or other international 
foreign financial operations and arc empowered, among other 
things, to lend money and to exercise powers incidental thereto. 
Accordingly, the Board has in the past granted consent to such leasing 
activities if they arc confined to financing and to this end has 
conditioned its consent in such a way as to restrict such activities 
to full-payout leases (without allowance for salvage value or estimated 
tax benefits) and to prohibit the acquisition of property for leasing 
purposes prior to the signing of a lease. 
209 
Item No. 7 
8/17/71 

(b) In implementing a portion 0f the "Bank Holding 
Company Amendments of 1970", the Board has recently determined 
that the leaning of personal property and equipment is under 
certain circumstances "closely related to banking" within the 
leaning of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
jas amended. The types of leasing activities that qualify 
in this respect are described in section 222.4(a)(6) of 
this chapter (Regulation Y) and are the subject of a Board 
interpretation at section 222.123(d) of this chapter. The 
standard there adopted by the Board is somewhat less rigorous 
than the full-payout standard previously employed in condi-
tioning the Board's consent to leasing activities of Edge 
corporations and their subsidiaries, 
(c) The Board's interpretation to which reference 
has been made states: "Permissible leasing activities are 
i limited to transactions where the lease is the functional 
equivalent of an extension of credit to the lessee". The 
Board is satisfied that the purpose of confining the leasing 
activities of Edge corporations and their subsidiaries to 
financing will be adequately served if their activities 
governed by the standard adopted by the Board with respect 
to permissible leasing activities of bank holding companies and 

their subsidiaries. 
The Board therefore has concluded that 
a n Edge corporation may, directly or indirectly, conduct 
basing operations of a type permitted by section 222.4(a)(6) 
o f this chapter (Regulation Y). 
(d) The Board continues t:o view leasing operations 
uhtch include the maintenance of an inventory for future 
Cental as not being financial in nature and hence as being 
°utoide both the purposes and the powers of Edge corporations 
and their subsidiaries, 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 615,) 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 19 71. 
(Signed) Normand Bernard 
Normand Bernard 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 6 
8/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
ALAMEDA BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Alameda, California, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 98 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of Alameda 
pirst National Bank, Alameda, 
California. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
!842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Alameda Bancorporation, Inc. 
("Applicant"), Alameda, California, for the Board's prior approval 
°f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 98 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f Alameda First National Bank ("Bank"), Alameda, California. 
Applicant proposes to exchange its shares for all the assets and 
liabilities of Alameda First Corporation ("Alameda First"), 

Alameda, California, a bank holding company that owns 98.8 per 
cent of the voting shares of Bank, to dissolve Alameda First, 
a nd to distribute said shares of Applicant to the shareholders 
o f Alameda First. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
o t the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller replied that he did not object to approval of the 
aPplication. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
^ e Federal Register on June 23, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11959), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with 
respect to the proposal. 
A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered. 
The proposal is a corporate reorganization that raises no 
issues under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Accordingly, the appli-
cation is approved on condition that the transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 

2097 
-3-
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

PIP 
2098 
Item No. 6 
8/17/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
I 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
ELLIS BANKING CORPORATION, 
' 
Bradenton, Florida, 
' 
for approval of action to become a 
1 
bank holding company through the 
' 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
1 
the voting shares of each of the 
' 
following Florida banks: 
' 
Sarasota Bank & Trust Co., Sarasota; 
1 
First National Bank of Bradenton; 
1 
First National Bank of New Port Richey; 1 
First National Bank in Tarpon Springs; ' 
Northeast National Bank of St. Peters- ' 
burg; Ellis National Bank of Tampa; 
1 
American Bank of Sarasota; Springs 
' 
State Bank, Tarpon Springs; American 
1 
Security Bank, New Port Richey; 
1 
Commercial Bank of Dade City; Manasota ' 
Bank, Manatee County; Bank of Jay; 
1 
Bank of Blountstown; Harbor State 
' 
Bank, Safety Harbor; and Longboat 
' 
Key Bank, Longboat Key. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Ellis Banking Corporation, 

-2-
2099 
Bradenton, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of each of the following 
Florida banks: Sarasota Bank & Trust Co., Sarasota; First National 
Bank of Bradenton; First National Bank of New Port Richey; First 
National Bank in Tarpon Springs; Northeast National Bank of St. 
Petersburg; Ellis National Bank of Tampa; American Bank of Sarasota; 
Springs State Bank, Tarpon Springs; American Security Bank, New Port 
Richey; Commercial Bank of Dade City; Manasota Bank, Manatee County; 
Bank of Jay; Bank of Blountstown; Harbor State Bank, Safety Harbor; 
and Longboat Key Bank, Longboat Key. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Florida Commissioner of Banking, and requested 
their views and recommendations. Both the Comptroller and the 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on June 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11680), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 

2100 
-3-
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1971. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
[SEAL] 

2±P± 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
ELLIS BANKING CORPORATION, BRADENTON, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of each of the following Florida banks: 
Sarasota Bank & Trust Co., Sarasota ("Sarasota Bank"); First National 
Bank of Bradenton ("Bradenton Bank"); First National Bank of New Port 
Richey ("New Port Richey Bank"); First National Bank in Tarpon Springs 
("Tarpon Springs Bank"); Northeast National Bank of St. Petersburg 
("Northeast Bank"); Ellis National Bank of Tampa ("Ellis Bank"); 
American Bank of Sarasota ("American Bank"); Springs State Bank, Tarpon 
Springs ("Springs State Bank"); American Security Bank, New Port Richey 
("American Security Bank"); Commercial Bank of Dade City ("Commercial 
Bank"); Manasota Bank, Manatee County ("Manasota Bank"); Bank of Jay 
("Jay Bank"); Bank of Blountstown ("Blountstown Bank"); Harbor State 
Bank, Safety Harbor ("Harbor State Bank"); and Longboat Key Bank, 
Longboat Key ("Longboat Key Bank"). 

210 
-2-
Viev;s and recommendations of supervisory authorities. As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and to the 
Florida Commissioner of Banking and requested their views and recommenda 
i 
tions. Both the Comptroller and the Commissioner recommended approval 
of the application. 
Statutory considerations. Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
Probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. Applicant 
has remained inactive since its organization in 1967. Upon consummation 

21 r 
-3-
of this proposal, Applicant would become the ninth largest banking 
organization in Florida and control approximately $351 million in 
deposits, representing 2.5 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
the State.* 
Sarasota Bank ($83 million in deposits), American Bank 
($16 million in deposits), Manasota Bank ($9 million in deposits), 
and Longboat Key Bank (opened March 2, 1971) control, as a group, 
34.0 per cent of the deposits in the Sarasota Banking Market. Also 
competing in the market are a group of three banks that control 36.6 
per cent of market deposits, a group of two banks that control 17.4 
Per cent,and two independent banks. 
Bradenton Bank ($58 million in deposits) controls 35.2 per 
cent of the deposits in the Bradenton Banking Market. Also competing 
in this market area are a group of two banks that control 39.6 per 
cent of market deposits, an independent bank seeking to become 
affiliated with a holding company, and another independent bank which 
was established early in 1971. 
Northeast Bank ($29 million in deposits) controls 3.4 per 
cent of the deposits in the St. Petersburg Banking Market, and ranks 
ninth in size among the 16 banking organizations located there. 
Ellis Bank ($17 million in deposits) controls 1.8 per cent 
of the deposits in the Tampa Banking Market, and ranks tenth in size 
among the 15 banking organizations located there. 
* All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding 
company acquisitions approved through July 15, 1971. 

-3-
2104 
New Port Richey Bank ($46 million in deposits) and American 
Security Bank ($13 million in deposits) together control 90.9 per 
cent of the deposits in the New Port Richey Banking Market. Their only 
competitor is a 15-month old bank. 
Commercial Bank ($11 million in deposits) controls 35.8 per 
cent of the deposits in the Dade City Banking Market. Its only competitor 
is an independent bank. 
Jay Bank ($9 million in deposits) , Blountstown Bank ($8 million 
in deposits), and Harbor State Bank ($6 million in deposits) are each 
regarded as being the only bank in its respective market. Tarpon Springs 
Bank ($33 million in deposits) and Springs State Bank ($13 million in 
deposits) are regarded as the only banks in their relevant market. 
These 15 banks are members of the Ellis Banking Group. 
Many services for the banks are centrally provided from the Group's 
headquarters, including accounting systems, audit and examination 
services, investment advice, and personnel and placement assistance. 
A majority of the shares of each bank is owned, individually or jointly, 
directly or indirectly, by a husband and wife. Control of the banks, 
many of which were organized de novo by these individuals, was acquired 
in the following years: one in 1946, two in 1952, 11 in the period 
1960-68, and one in 1971. Hence, the proposal to join these banks 
in a holding company system is regarded as essentially a corporate 
reorganization. 
As a result of the described affiliation, there is no meaningful 
competition among these banks. The likelihood of termination of 
control of these banks by the family appears remote. Since the banks 

2105 
-2-
already operate as a group, it seems unlikely that transfer of ownership 
of the banks to Applicant would have an undue adverse effect on other 
banks in the relevant markets. The rapid growth of the areas should 
permit other organizations to enter the markets, and consummation of 
this proposal should not foreclose such possibilities. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor restrain trade in any 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. 
Applicant would begin operations in satisfactory condition and with 
competent management; its prospects, which are largely dependent upon 
those of its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
Generally, the proposed subsidiaries are considered to be in 
satisfactory condition, with competent managements and favorable prospects 
It is recognized that the majority of the banks are located in rapidly 
growing areas of the State and that, as their markets grow, increased 
capital will be required. Applicant has proposed a capital improvement 
program that is expected to be instituted immediately following 
consummation of this proposal, and Applicant should be in position to 
raise additional capital in the future as needed. Therefore, considera-
tions relating to the banking factors lend weight to approval of the 
application. 

sine 
-2-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. Under 
the present affiliate relationship, the banks have been adequately 
* 
meeting the needs of their respective communities. Although no new 
services would directly result from consummation of this proposal, 
it is felt that affiliation of the banks in a holding company 
system may make it easier for them to improve and expand their 
services. Therefore, considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities are consistent with approval of the 
application. 
Summary and conclusion. On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
August 17, 1971 

210 
Item No. 10 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
8/17/71 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
W y o m i n g 
b a n c o r p o r a t i o n 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, 
for approval of acquisition of 100 
Per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of 
^ e First National Bank of Jackson 
Hole. Jackson, Wyoming, a proposed 
new bank. . 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
X842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Wyoming Bancorporation,("Applicant"), 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directorsr qualifying shares) of the First National Bank of 
Jackson Hole ("Bank"), Jackson, Wyoming, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller 
responded that he recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 17, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11681), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and the 
hanks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
he served, and finds that: 
Applicant has four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
of about $42 million, representing 5.2 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in Wyoming. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board through July 31, 1971.) Approval of the acquisition of Bank 
uould not increase Applicant's deposits since Bank, as stated above, 
is a proposed new bank. There is presently only one bank located in 
Jackson, and the addition of Bank would increase competition in the 
area, which is separated by geographical barriers and by distance from 
other banking alternatives. Based on the record before it, the Board 
concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 

-2-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as consistent 
with approval. Considerations related to the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served lend weight in favor of approval since the 
establishment of Bank provides a banking alternative for customers in 
the Jackson area. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acqui-
sition w6uld be in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
Some citizens of Jackson have written the Board indicating 
their dissatisfaction that the Comptroller of the Currency awarded a 
national bank charter to Applicant rather than another competing group. 
t 
However, the Board has no authority to make any redetermination of that 
decision. The Board has dealt with this application on the basis of the 
statutory factors. Included in its consideration was the fact that the 
Comptroller granted a charter to this Applicant after hearings were held 
on both applications for national banks in Jackson. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acqui-
sition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, and provided further that (c) First 
National Bank of Jackson Hole shall be open for business not later than 
six months after the date of this Order. The periods described in 

2110 
-4-
(b) and (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 17, 1971, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Daane and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
(SEAL) 
i 
