MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 14, 1969 

3133 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 14, 1959. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 

3134 
10/14/76 
-2-
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Singleton, Associate Director, Division 
of Data Processing 
Mr. Watt, Systems Engineer, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
GAP audit. Members of the Board had been furnished copies of a 
draft letter that would respond to a suggestion by Chairman Patman of the 
House Committee on Banking and Currency that, since Chairman Martin's 
term would expire early next year, it would be appropriate to have a 
general audit of the Federal Reserve by the General Accounting Office. 
Discussion at today's meeting resulted in agreement upon a change 
in the draft, after which the letter was unanimously approved in the form 
attached as Item No. 1. 
VFCR. In a memorandum dated October 10, 1969, Governor Brimmer 
presented progress reports regarding the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program with respect to commercial banks and nonbank institutions 
and appraised the need for modifications in the program for 1970. He 
recommended and explained the terms that he thought appropriate for the 
program for the coming year. 
During discussion at today's meeting Governor Brimmer commented 
on the several alternatives he had described in his memorandum, and other 

O i 
O l u i } 
10/14/69 
-3-
members of the Board expressed views regarding the structure Governor 
Brimmer had advocated for the program; some divergence of view was 
brought out regarding the philosophy underlying the effort. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that during 
his negotiations with the other participant organizations regarding 
the terms of the 1970 program Governor Brimmer would keep in mind the 
tenor of today's discussion. 
A number of staff members withdrew at this point. 
Thrift Plan. Pursuant to the recommendation of the Conference 
of Presidents the Board, on September 4, 1969, had approved in sub-
stance the establishment of a voluntary Thrift Plan, the details of 
which were now being worked out, in which the employees of the Federal 
Reserve Banks could participate. The Board had requested Mr. Sherman 
and the Division of Personnel Administration to submit analytical com-
ments to assist the Board in determining whether its employees should 
be permitted to participate in the plan and, if so, on what basis. 
Responses to that request were contained in memoranda of October 7 from 
the Division of Personnel Administration and of October 13 from 
Mr. Sherman. Attached to Mr. Sherman's memorandum was a summary of the 
main features of the Thrift Plan. 
(A copy of the summary is attached 
a s Item No. 2.) A principal feature was provision for matching employer 
contributions equal to 25 per cent of the employee's contribution up to 
6 per cent of his pay (an employee's over-all contributions were limited 

3136 
10/14/69 
-4-
to 10 per cent of his pay). The questions explored by Mr. Sherman and 
the Division of Personnel Administration were (1) whether the Thrift 
Plan should be extended to employees of the Board of Governors, and, 
if so, (2) whether the Board should provide the 25 per cent matching 
contribution up to 6 per cent of the employee's salary. Mr. Sherman 
recommended favorably with respect to both questions; the Division of 
Personnel Administration made an affirmative recommendation with respect 
to the first question but recommended against the matching contribution by 
the Board. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated general agreement that 
the Thrift Plan should be made available to Board employees, but there 
was some variation among tentative positions taken by members of the 
Board with respect to the question of matching contributions. Governors 
Robertson and Maisel were opposed to such contributions on the ground 
that they represented a benefit that was not available to Civil Service 
employees, whose benefits were largely paralleled by those provided for 
Board employees. Other members of the Board were divided between 
favoring the matching contributions and holding that question in abeyance 
until it was known whether pending legislation would be enacted under 
which Civil Service retirement benefits would be calculated according 
to the average of the three successive years of highest salary received 
rather than the "high five" average as at present. The Board agreed to 
revert to the subject in limited session later during this meeting. 

3137 
10/14/69 
-5-
Messrs. Gramley and Smith, Associate Director and Adviser, 
respectively, the Division of Research and Statistics, then joined the 
meeting. 
Computers. Staff members of the Division of Data Processing 
described, with the assistance of visual aids, changes in computer 
equipment that they considered necessary to support the Board's role 
in Federal Reserve computer services. In essence, they recommended the 
following: 
(1) replacement of the present model 50 with an IBM/360 
model 65; (2) addition of terminals to the system; and (3) installation 
of a 360 model 40 in the Culpeper emergency relocation center to provide 
for (a) national emergency computer facility, (b) interface to the com-
munications network, and (c) pick-up to and expansion for the Board's 
major system. The expected costs were as follows: 
Model 65 (12 months) to replace the 
model 50 
$1,106,568 
Terminal devices 
126,770 
Model 40 (2 months) 
51,892 
Model 50 (2 months) for cutover 
100,046 
Total for calendar year 1970 
$1,385,276 
Present model 50 cost 
$650,832 
After a discussion during which the data processing staff responded 
to various questions raised by members of the Board, the Board agreed to 
proceed on the basis outlined, with the understanding that the situation 
would be re-evaluated from time to time. 

3138 
10/14/69 
-6-
All staff members who had been present except Messrs. Kenyon, 
Hackley, Johnson, and Hart withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Holdings of equity securities. The Board referred to 
Governor Sherrill, with power to act, a memorandum dated June 4, 1969, 
from the Division of Personnel Administration listing holdings of 
equity securities of banks, bank affiliates, or Government securities 
dealers reported by Board employees in response to a memorandum sent 
to all employees under date of August 16, 1968, following revision of 
the Board's Rules Regarding Employee Responsibilities and Conduct in 
June 1968. 
Thrift Plan. Following up on the discussion earlier during 
this meeting with regard to the proposed Thrift Plan for Employees of 
the Federal Reserve System, scheduled to be established January 1, 1970, 
the Board now reached certain decisions. 
First, it was agreed unanimously that participation in the 
Thrift Plan should not be made avaibable to members of the Board of 
Governors. 
Second, by unanimous vote the Board authorized voluntary 
participation by employees of the Board of Governors in the Thrift 
Plan. 
Third, by unanimous vote the Board approved payment by the 
Board of an appropriate portion of the costs of administrative and 
investment advisory services involved in operating the Thrift Plan. 

( € 
10/14/69 
-7-
Fourth, with Governors Robertson and Maisel dissenting, the 
Board approved making a matching contribution of 25 cents for each 
dollar placed in the Thrift Plan by a participating employee up to 
a maximum contribution equal to 1-1/2 per cent of the participating 
employee's basic salary. 
f 
•• L i 
•• 
.'.) 
' 
. 
( . . 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary / 

3140 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS: 
O f T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
Item No. 1 
10/14/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 14, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply tc your letter of September 29 in which 
you suggest that since my term of office as a member of the Board 
will expire soon, the General Accounting Office should conduct a 
"general audit of the Federal Reserve." 
As you recognize in your letter, I do not share your 
belief that the System should be subject to audit by the GPO in 
addition to the present audit procedures. The System is now 
subject to independent audit and examination procedures that arc 
unexcelled in any other organization. 
These procedures have been established under statutory 
authority from the Congress, which has made the Board responsible 
for determining its own internal management policies. The Congress 
in 1933 terminated the authority for GAO audit of the Board; this 
was a sound decision, in my judgment, and 1 would not wish to take 
it upon myself to request the Comptroller General to conduct such 
an audit. 
With all good wishes, 
Sincerely you^s, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
\J 

3141 
Item No. 2 
10/14/69 
Summary of main feature;of 
^ 
Thrift Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Establishment of the Thrift Plan has been given substantive 
approval by the Board of Governors and by the Conference of Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks. Some of the boards of directors of the 
Reserve Banks have also given substantive approval to the proposed Plan. 
The detailed language of the Plan is still being refined but is expected 
to be available in virtually final form by the middle of October. The 
Plan will be entirely separate from the Retirement System as a matter 
of legal structure and operation, but its establishment is closely 
related to the revision of the Bank Plan of the Retirement System, also 
to be made effective January 1, 1970, and to the expanded program of 
insured benefits for Federal Reserve Bank employees in the event of 
death in active service or disability of a total and permanent nature, 
which in practice means disability continuing for an extended period 
to a degree that prevents an individual employee from performing the 
duties of his cr some other job. 
The Thrift Plan is to be substantially similar in its 
objectives and form to those established by a good many of the more 
progressive employers in recent years. Its purpose is to encourage 
and facilitate systematic savings on the part of employees on a volun-
tary basis so as to help provide for their support after retirement. 
It is to be qualified for tax benefits within the meaning of Sections 
401(a) and 501(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954. This means in 
general that earnings on funds placed in the trust will not be taxed 
to the member until they are actually distributed to him and then, 
depending upon the method of settlement, they may be taxed as long-t^rm 
capital gains. 
Participation in the Thrift Plan is to be voluntary and any 
regular employee in service on January 1, 1970 who is working more 
than 15 hours a week would be eligible for membership. 
Persons employed 
after that date would become eligible after having completed a year of 
continuous service. Members will have the choice of placing their con-
tributions in either a Fixed Income F-jnd or in an Equity Fund, in 
multiples of 25 per cent of the contributions made. Unless an effective 
designation is made bv the member for equities, all contributions will 
be invested in the Fixed Income Fund. Members may change the direction 
of their investments on the first day of any month once during each 
Plan year by filing notice at least 60 days prior to the date the 
change is to be effective. 

-2-
C/ J..v 1 
Member current contributions to the Thrift Plan may not 
exceed 10 per cent of basic salary and, in the case of employees of 
the Federal Reserve Banks, substantive approval has been given by the 
Board of Governors and the Conference of Presidents to matching employer 
contributions of one-fourth of the member's current contributions of 
not more than 6 per cent of his pay. Member contributions would be 
vested at all times and employer contributions would become vested pro-
gressively, that is, 20 per cent of the employer contributions would 
be vested in the first Plan year in which the member participated, 20 
per cent in the second, and so on until 100 per cent is vested in'the 
5th Plan year. Thereafter, all employer contributions for the indivi-
dual member who has participated continuously in the Plan for more than 
four full Plan years would be vested. The Plan year would be a calendar 
year beginning January 1, 1970. 
Certain penalties would apply for members withdrawing funds 
from their accounts, in accordance with Internal Revenue Service require-
ments, and forfeitures of employer contributions in the event of persons 
withdrawing from the Plan or terminating service with the Reserve Banks 
prior to vesting would accrue to the employer--not to the member. 
Administration of the Thrift Plan is to be placed in a five 
member committee to be known as the "Administrative Committee of the 
Thrift Plan fcr Employees of the Federal Reserve System." One such 
member is to be selected by the Board of Governors and the remaining 
four members are to be selected by the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, all for terms of three years. As the initial members of the 
Administrative Committee, the Board has selected Governor Maisel and 
the Presidents have selected Messrs. Bopp, Francis, Galusha, and Hayes. 
At this point it should be noted that the Administrative 
Committee has selected Equitable Life Assursnce Society of the United 
States to administer the Thrift Plan and to manage the Fixed Income 
Investment Fund of that Plan. (This has been done by a Letter of • 
Intent subject, of course, to final completion and formal approval of 
the Pla n and Trust Agreement documents, and an appropriate contract 
with Equitable.) 
In terms of costs, it is possible to estimate roughly the 
total expense that will be incurred by the Federal Reserve Banks under 
several assumed levels of employee participation. For example, if 80 
per cent of the approximately 20,000 Bank employees participate in the 
Plan with an average of 4 per cent of basic salary as their contribution 
rate, the matching contributions by the Reserve Banks would gross 1 per 
cent of payroll for those employees or about $1.2 million a year on a 
payroll of $150 million. Because of the waiting period that will be 
required for new employees entering duty after January 1, 1970, potential 
matching contributions might be lower than that figure even if a very 
high level of participation is attained. In any -event, about one per cent 

3143 
-3-
of the aggregate payroll of the Federal Reserve Banks would almost 
certainly cover the matching contributions. 
In addition to maturing contributions, the Board and the 
Reserve Bank Presidents have approved the payment by the Banks of the 
costs of administrative and investment advisory services for operating 
the Plan, and these have been estimated under quotations received from 
Equitable and others at something less than $100 thousand a year at the 
end of five years, depending upon the level of participation. 
The one per cent-of-payroll-cost to the 12 Banks for direct 
contributions to the Thrift Plan may be compared with a contribution 
rate of approximately 13 per cent of Bank payroll for costs of the 
revised pension plan"and the expanded insurad benefit program for death 
or disability in active service. These percentages of payroll do not 
include the 4.8 per cent of payroll currently paid by the Banks for 
salary covered under the Social Security Act, i.e., 4.8 per cent of 
each employee's pay up to $7,800 a year. 
October 2, 1969 
