November 15, 1968 
Minutes for 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: -Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the S ecretary s Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
kJL 

4001 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Messrs. Axilrod, Partee, Gramley, Wernick, Eckert, 
Keir, Baker, Burns, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline, 
and Miss Stockwell of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Wood, Bradshaw, Gekker, 
Gemmill, Pizer, and Stem of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market 
review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review consisting of reports on the Government securities market (Mr. 
Kelty), on bank credit developments (Mr. Fry), and on foreign exchange 
market activities, with particular reference to the influence of specu-
lation in the German mark (Mr. Stem). In addition, Mr. Brill presented 
certain statistics that had now become available indicative of U.S. 
domestic economic conditions. Copies of the charts and tables 

40 02 
11/15/68 
-2-
distributed for the purpose of today's review have been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
« 
eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta on November 13 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and 
Dallas on November 14, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Members of the staff who had been present except Messrs. Kenyon 
and Solomon then withdrew. Mr. Shepardson remained and Messrs. Johnson, 
Director, Division of Personnel Administration; Kelleher, Director, 
Division of Administrative Services; and Kakalec, Controller, entered 
the room. 
Annex building (Item No. 1). Mr. Shepardson reviewed the infor-
mation he had presented at yesterday's Board meeting relative to the 
price quoted by the firm of Loewy-Snaith for services in connection 
with the interior decorating and furnishing of the Board's annex build-
ing and the cost estimated to be involved for comparable services if 
rendered by the Board's architects. He stated that following yester-
day's meeting he had gotten in touch with the Loewy-Snaith firm, 
expressed concern regarding the price that had been quoted, and asked 
for an alternative quotation if it were decided to turn back to the 
Board's architects the responsibility for some of the work that had 

M ' \ f> 0 t 
40 o3 
11/15/68 
-3-
been contemplated to be performed by Loewy-Snaith. Later the firm had 
advised him of certain aspects of the work that they felt could be 
eliminated, with the result that the remaining work could be performed 
for an estimated $90,500. According to his (Mr. Shepardson's) compu-
tations, the comparable cost would be $39,000 under contract with the 
architects. Further, the retention of the Loewy-Snaith firm would, as 
he had reported yesterday, involve a delay in the annex building pro-
gram in the area of 30-90 days. 
Governor Sherrill said it had been his feeling that the deci-
sion was close in the first place, that he had been prepared to accept 
some price differential, and that he believed the curtailed Loewy-
Snaith proposal would eliminate most of the advantages of retaining 
that firm. Therefore, he would recommend going ahead with the work 
under a contract with the Board's architects. In response to a ques-
tion by the Chairman about the problem of competitive bidding, Gover-
nor Sherrill said he thought that on this type of contract, which 
involved personalized services, negotiation was almost essential. It 
was noted that the Board had received presentations from four firms, 
although prices had not been quoted. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that on a matter of this kind it 
would be difficult to proceed on the basis of competitive bidding. 
On 
balance, he continued to feel that it would be desirable to take 
advantage of the knowledge and skills that had been demonstrated by 

40 04 
11/15/68 
_4-
Loewy-Snaith, thus utilizing a new imaginative element in the interior 
design of the annex building, and he would personally be willing to 
pay the added cost. 
Governor Maisel said his reasoning followed that of Governor 
Mitchell, but he noted that the Board had previously agreed to autho-
rize Governor Sherrill to make the decision. 
Governor Daane stated that he was sympathetic with the idea 
of obtaining the services of an imaginative firm, but that he was 
willing to accept the judgment of Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson. 
Governor Brimmer noted that he had earlier raised with the 
Board questions of the cost and the delay that would be involved in 
bringing in the Loewy-Snaith firm, along with the generally complicating 
factor of introducing another firm into the planning process. The 
figures that had now been presented convinced him even more strongly 
that it would be desirable to proceed on the basis of using the Board's 
architects. Governor Robertson agreed. 
At Chairman Martin's suggestion, Governor Sherrill's recommenda-
tion was accepted and the matter was referred back to him, it being 
understood that a decision to revert to the Board's architects for 
interior design services might involve some payment to Loewy-Snaith 
for work already performed by that firm. It was anticipated, however, 
that the amount would not be substantial. 
Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson. -

• "sf 
5 
i>5 
i 
' - V 
11/15/68 
_5_ 
Messrs. Shepardson and Kelleher then withdrew. 
Proposed staff appointment. Reference was made to the prelim-
inary discussion yesterday of a proposed addition to the officer staff 
of the Division of International Finance, along with the general prob-
lem of staffing in that Division, and at Governor Sherrill's request 
it was agreed to defer these matters for further consideration at a 
later date, tentatively Wednesday, November 27. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: At 10:15 the Board met 
with consultants who had been retained for 
purposes of the current study of one-bank 
holding companies and entry by banks into 
lines of activity beyond those historically 
associated with banking. A memorandum con-
cerning the meeting is being placed in the 
Board's files. 
Deputy Secretary 

f*AL 
RE^'* 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
4006 
Item No. 1 
11/15/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 22, 1968. 
Mr. Charles F. Ward, Jr., 
Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson, 
Architects Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19103 
Dear Mr. Ward: 
This is to confirm Mr. Shepardson's advice to you 
that the Board of Governors, at its meeting on November 15, 1968, 
accepted your proposal for the design and procurement of furniture 
and furnishings for its new building, "Federal Reserve North," 
dated November 12, 1968, and as more fully set forth in your re-
vised proposal of November 21, 1968, for the total amount of 
$50,000. 
It is understood that this total includes the sum of 
$11,000 representing your fee for items heretofore included in 
your building cost estimate dated May 23, 1968, as shown on your 
attached sheet of "Cost and Fee Breakdown" and that offsetting 
credits against this amount will be made for the fee on any of 
these items which, by mutual agreement, may be included in the 
building construction contract. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
i 
