MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 20, 1972 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 20, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:15 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. She eh an 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Regulation J. On September 19, 1972, the U.S. District Court 
for the District of Columbia, upon a petition filed by the Independent 
Bankers Association of America and the Western Independent Bankers, 
entered a temporary restraining order effective through September 28, 
1972, preventing the implementation of pending amendments to Regulation 
(Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks), which 

9/20/72 
-2-
were scheduled to become effective, along with amendments to Regula-
tion D (Reserves of Member Banks), on September 21, 1972. 
Although the Court had not restrained implementation of the 
amendments to Regulation D, the Board believed that undesirable 
economic repercussions might result from implementation of the amend-
ments at different times. Therefore, it was agreed unanimously that 
implementation of the amendments to Regulation D would be deferred 
until such time as the amendments to Regulation J could be implemented. 
A similar suit had been filed on September 19, 1972, in the 
U.S. District Court, Central District, Los Angeles. Mr. O'Connell, 
the Board's General Counsel, was presently in California in connection 
with that action. In order to apprise the Board of the latest develop-
ments with regard to the action in California, a telephone conference 
call had been arranged with Mr. O'Connell. 
Mr. O'Connell reported that in view of the action taken in the 
District of Columbia Court, the California Court had elected not to 
issue a restraining order at the present time. The California judge 
had indicated that he was interested in hearing the merits of the case 
but would be unable to do so until October 10, 1972. The judge therefore 
requested that, following the expiration of the existing restraining 
order on September 28, 1972, the Board voluntarily defer implementation 
of the amendments to Regulation J until October 10, 1972, in order that 
he could then consider the case on its merits. 

2543 
9/20/72 
-3-
Mr. O'Connell believed that in the circumstance the Board 
should agree to the California judge's proposal. He felt that should 
the Board not agree, the judge would either turn the case over to 
another judge or he would issue a restraining order to become effective 
September 29, 1972. Mr. O'Connell did not feel that either of those 
alternatives would be in the best interest of the Board. 
After a discussion during which Governor Brimmer expressed 
reservations with respect to the Board's committing itself in this 
manner, it was agreed that the Board would suggest to the Court that it 
would comply with the request as long as the Board would be free to 
implement the amendments to Regulation J, should the District of 
Columbia Court's order be vacated prior to September 28, 1972. 
The Board then authorized issuance of an order and press release 
announcing deferral of the implementation of the amendments to Regu-
lations D and J, pending judicial determination and subsequent action 
by the Board. Copies of the order and press release are attached 
under Item No. 1. It was understood that a telegram would be sent to 
the Federal Reserve Banks apprising them of the latest developments 
in this matter. 
After further brief discussion the meeting recessed and 
reconvened in the Board Room at 3:00 p.m., with the same Board members 
and staff in attendance as at the morning session. 

254.4 
9/20/72 
-4-
At Mr. O'Connell's request, staff had prepared a telegram 
for the Board's consideration that would be sent to Mr. O'Connell 
and would state the Board's commitment to the California Court, as 
agreed upon at the morning session. 
There ensued another conference call during which Mr. O'Connell 
urged that the Board approve the draft telegram and recommended that 
in the circumstances the Board consider requesting that the plaintiffs 
be required to post a bond. 
During a discussion of this suggestion, in which it was brought 
out that substantial cost to the Federal Reserve System would be incurred 
by delaying implementation of the amendments, support developed for a 
bond being requested. 
The Board then unanimously approved the telegram to Mr. O'Connell 
and authorized the staff to request that the plaintiffs in these actions 
post a bond. It was understood that the amount of the bond would be 
determined by the staff in consultation with Governor Mitchell. A 
copy of the telegram sent to Mr. O'Connell is attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

s 
... 
. i i . 
, 
i c - 
-U 
i •• 
; t " 
. 
' g A 
'<•'• 
1 3 ) 
_ 
}r |k k. *. !r: 1$ 
. 
Itf 
Is Jk< 
-1 
I: 
M f i ^ - . 
... 
,, x :, L,,Vn, r 
- 
, - J 
' 
Item No. 1 
9/20/72 
For Immediate release 
September 20, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
postponed the effective date of amendments to its Regulations D and J 
vhich hfcd been scheduled to £0 into effect on September 21. 
This action resulted from the issuance of a temporary 
restraining order by the U.S. District Court for the District of 
Columbia on a petition filed by the Independent Bankers Association 
, 
of America and the Western Independent Bankers. 
The amendment to Regulation D represents a restructuring 
of reserve requirements on demand deposits and will &pply the same 
reserve requirements to member banks of like size, re^ardUss of their 
location. The amendment to Regulation J will require all bankc served 
by the Federal Reserve check collection system to pay for checks in 
Immediately available funds en the day of presentment, 
Strict compliance with the court's order would restrain 
implementation only as to a limited group of banks and only with 
•respect to Regularion J. However, in view of the adverse effect on w,. 
Payments mechanism if implementation of the Regulation J proposals were 
fragmented, and, considering the adverse monetary policy impact should 
the reserve, requirement adjustment under Regulation D be effected with-
out the accompanying Regulation J changes, the Board has determined thfct 
it 1b necessary to postpone the effective date of both regulatory amend-
ments, pending judicial determination and subsequent action by the Board. 
A copy of the Beard^ order in this matter is attached. 

2546 
TITtE 12—BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D and J] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 210—CHECK CLEARING AND COLLECTION 
POSTPONEMENT OF EFFECTIVE DATES OF AMENDMENTS 
As a result of the Temporary Restraining Order entered 
September 19, .1972, by the U.S. District Court for the District of 
^lurnbia. upon petition filed by the Independent Bankers Association 
of 
America and the liestern Independent Bankers, the effective dates 
amendments to the Board's Regulation D (12 CFR Part 204) as set 
forth in the Federal Register of June 20, 1972 (37 Federal Register 
^2713), and for amendments to the Board's Regulation J (12 CFR Part 210) 
ret forth in the Federal Register of June 28, 1°72 (37 Federal 
l i s t e r 12714), have been postponed by the Board of Governors pending 
^'dicial determination and subsequent action by the Board. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Bosrd 
(SEAL) 

2547 
T h" L E G R A M 
Item No. 2 
9/20/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
September 20, 197 2 
Cavan - Los Angeles 
Please transmit the following to Tom O'Connell immediately. 
O'Connell - Board General Counsel 
Upon advicc. from you of direction from District Court Judge Lucas, 
Td. S .D. C. C. D. , Los Angeles, for Board ' s position regard ing deferr ing 
implementation of amendment to Regulation J in period September 29 
to October 10, 1972, Board has authorized you to commit Board to 
Such deferment,* provided, however, that it is understood that should 
the now outstanding temporary restraining order issued on September 19, 
1972, by U.S. District Court Judge Charles Richey, U.S.D.C.D.C., be 
vacated prior to September 29, Board will be free to proceed, if it so 
determinesf with proposed implementation of amendment to Regulation J. 
You are authorized to so advise Judge Lucas. 
(signed) T, Smith 
T. SMITH 
