Minutes for 
Mav 12r 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Martin 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 

1584 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Monday, May 12, 1969. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification at 
the next meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
Allied Bank International. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated May 6, 1969, from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation relating to the application of Allied Bank International, 
New York, New York, a section 25(a) corporation, for permission to 
increase its capital and to amend its articles of association in order 
to include the following banks as shareholders: 
Liberty National 

1585 
5/12/69 
-2-
Bank and Trust Company, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; American Security and 
Trust Company, Washington, D. C.; The First National Bank of St. Paul, 
St. Paul, Minnesota; Valley National Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona; 
and United States National Bank of Oregon, Portland, Oregon. 
The Division noted that action could have been taken under 
delegated authority, but the application was brought to the attention 
of the Board because of possible anticompetitive aspects. Liberty 
National, American Security, and First National were all relatively 
small banks, but the assets of Valley National and United States 
National each exceeded $1 billion. In addition, First National was one 
of two lead banks of First Bank System, Inc., a registered bank holding 
company. However, there appeared to be no concentration in terms of 
local banking markets, and none of the five proposed shareholders 
appeared to be important competitors in the international field. It 
was the conclusion of the Division in recommending approval that no 
n^ajor anticompetitive problems were involved. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the Board should 
Proceed with caution in this area. While he approved the principle of 
Permitting small banks to group together to form Edge corporations for 
the purpose of entering a field they would not otherwise be in a 
Position to enter, he was not sure that the privilege should be extended 
to larger banks as well. It was a problem that he thought needed to 
be explored. He would be willing to approve the addition of Liberty 
National and American Security as stockholders in Allied Bank 

1588 
5/12/69 
-3-
International, but he suggested that action on the other applications 
be deferred pending study by the staff of the question whether there 
should be a size limitation imposed on applications with respect to 
individual banks and those affiliated with registered bank holding 
companies. 
Following some discussion, it was agreed that the matter should 
be considered further at a time when a quorum of the Board was present. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Boatmen's National 
Bank of St. Louis, St. Louis, Missouri, with Riverfront National Bank, 
also of St. Louis, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion stated that the merger 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Application for membership (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to the Organization Committee of Elmwood State 
Bank, East Paterson, New Jersey, approving the application made on 
behalf of the bank for admission to membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Applicability of margin requirements to joint ventures. There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated April 23, 1969, from the Secu-
rities Credit Regulation Unit of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation relating to an inquiry regarding the applicability of margin 
a n d other requirements of Regulation G, Credit by Persons other than 
Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 

1587 
5/12/69 
-4-
Registered Equity Securities, to a joint venture where the lender 
would supply the principal share of the capital but the individual 
co-venturer would receive the principal share of the profits and 
bear all the risk of loss. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to Barron, 
Rice & Rockmore, New York, New York, that would indicate concurrence 
with the New York Reserve Bank's view, expressed orally, that the 
proposed arrangement would constitute an extension of credit subject 
to margin regulation. 
Following comments by Miss Hart, statements by members of the 
Board indicated that the proposed interpretation was acceptable, but 
action was deferred until such time as additional members of the 
Board were available. 
Report on S. 675. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated April 23, 1969, from the Legal Division relating to a request 
from Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency 
for the Board's views on S. 675, a bill "To prohibit federally insured 
banks from voting their own stock and to provide for cumulative voting 
in federally insured banks." 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of reply that would 
indicate that the Board favored the objectives of the proposed bill 
but suggest two modifications. This approach would be the same as 
that taken last year with respect to identical bills (H.R. 13884 and 
S* 3707) in the 90th Congress. 

1588 
5/12/69 
-5-
After some discussion during which members of the staff 
explained the reasons for including certain paragraphs, it was 
agreed to defer action until such time as additional members of the 
Board were present. 
First State Bank of Dodson, Texas. Mr. Solomon informed 
the Board that First State Bank, Dodson, Texas, about which Mr. 
Leavitt had reported last week, was being placed in receivership. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/12/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 12, 1969 
Organization Committee, 
Elmwood State Bank, 
East Paterson, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application made on behalf of Elmwood State Bank, East Paterson, 
New Jersey, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, effective 
if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate State author-
ization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
l» 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any.change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the . 
time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $500,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $500,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

15S0 
Elmwood State Bank 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence Business 
has been issued. The board of directors should also adopt, at the same 
time, a resolution ratifying the action which has been taken in the 
bank's behalf in making application for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the.manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 
