MINUTES 
A If 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
I 
November 24, 1969 

351.2 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Presented. The reports were based to some extent on materials that 
t,y• 
, 
f {. 
; 
... 
• 
....,• 
had been compiled in preparation for tomorrow's Committee meeting, 
a
nd copies of the relevant documents have been placed in the files 
°f the Committee. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
i-i 
«. ... 
, 
except Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Eckert, and Fisher of the Division 
— 
• 
• 
. 
• •• 
i./ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Economic review. A review of the kind customarily offered 
m advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
°-un OC-I.a 
; A •';• ( 

11/24/69 
-2-
of Research and Statistics and Mr. Norwood of the Division of 
International Finance then withdrew from the meeting and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Noble and Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. Issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting approval on October 27, 1969, of the 
application of The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, 
Connecticut, to merge with The Tradesmens National Bank of New Haven, 
New Haven, Connecticut, was authorized. Copies of the documents are 
attached under Item No. 1. 
(Note: The competitive factor report of the Department of 
Justice had been received on November 20, 1969, and copies thereof 
had been distributed to the Board members.) 
First at Orlando. It being understood that a suggestion for 
a minor change in the statement would be taken into account, issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting approval on October 3, 1969, of 

11/24/69 
-3-
the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, 
to acquire shares.of Central Park First National Bank, Orlando, 
Florida, a proposed new bank, was authorized. Copies of the docu-
ments, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2, along with the 
dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
Base for calculation of premiums. After discussion, a letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget in response to its request for views on 
a proposal of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to amend existing 
legislation so as to eliminate all "creditor obligations" from the 
base on which insurance premiums payable by insured savings and 
loan associations to the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corpora-
tion are calculated was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The only substantive issue raised was whether to specify in 
the letter that there might be a question as to the adequacy of the 
reserve position of the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation 
and suggest that an independent study of the subject might be appro-
priate. One member noted that that might call into question also 
the adequacy of the reserves of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion and imply that a similar study would be desirable. However, 
another member observed that omission of any comment from the letter 
might suggest that the Board thought the FSLIC's reserve position 
was adequate. Accordingly, the letter was approved as drafted. 

11/24/69 
-4-
Virginia Commonwealth. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond concerning the request 
of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Richmond, Virginia, for a ruling 
by the Board on a question that had arisen incident to the proposed 
acquisition by Virginia Commonwealth and its subsidiary banks of 
stock of a small business investment company. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
Commercial paper. On October 29, 1969, the Board, in 
connection with its proposal to apply Regulation Q, Interest on 
Deposits, to certain borrowings by bank affiliates, had announced its 
determination that obligations issued by subsidiaries of member banks 
were, under the present provisions of Regulation Q and Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, in the same status as obligations issued 
directly by the bank. On November 4 the Board had announced certain 
measures to permit member banks whose subsidiaries had commercial 
Paper outstanding on October 29, 1969, time to adjust to the 
determination. 
In a letter of November 7, 1969, The First National Bank of 
Boston, Boston, Massachusetts, had requested further relief, at least 
to the extent of permitting the bank to continue to sell commercial 
Paper through its wholly-owned subsidiary (First National Factors of 
Boston Trust) if the total amount of such obligations did not exceed 
the amount outstanding on October 29, and to use such funds without 
regard to member bank reserve requirements. 

3516 
11/24/69 
-5-
In a memorandum of November 21, 1969, the Legal Division 
noted that the question of providing additional relief from the bank 
subsidiary ruling involved basically a matter of policy. However, 
the Board had considered the equities of the situation in developing 
the adjustment measures announced on November 4, 1969, and there 
appeared to be no new circumstances such as to suggest a modification 
of those measures. 
Mr. Holland pointed out that time was a factor since the 
grace period provided by the November 4 adjustment measures was near-
ing its expiration. However, he said, there were some differences of 
opinion on the matter. Certain Federal Reserve Banks had expressed 
a preference for moving in a different way in handling the situation 
and Governor Brimmer, who was understood to have some points of view 
that he would like to put forward, had requested that consideration 
°f the subject be deferred until he could be present. 
In the circumstances, it was agreed that the subject would 
taken up by the Board on Wednesday, November 26. 
Mr. Holland also referred to a memorandum from the Office 
the Secretary dated November 20, 1969, with regard to a proposal 
for the use of moral suasion to limit the issuance of commercial 
Paper. He advised that the staff would recommend against adopting 
the proposal, if that could be avoided, because it felt the Board 
W a
s operating basically in an environment that involved a breakdown 

3517 
11/24/69 
-6-
of moral suasion, because unless some commercial paper issuers got 
far out of line the increase in such paper would not be sufficient 
to dilute the effects of monetary policy appreciably, and because 
the odds were that some parties would be persuaded by the use of 
moral suasion while others would not, with resultant inequities. 
Only two Board members expressed themselves at this stage, 
and their reactions did not coincide. One member (Governor Daane) 
saw some merit in following the suggested approach and putting all 
member banks on notice while the Board was considering the comments 
received on its outstanding proposal and was deciding what regulatory 
action, if any, it would take. If banks were asked to hold the 
volume of commercial paper issued by affiliates to the October 29 
level, some might flout the Board, but there was likely to be a 
fairly good degree of cooperation and it seemed to him better to 
take some action than simply to sit aside and let further inequities 
develop. 
Another member (Governor Mitchell) observed that the matter 
was one on which the Board had not yet taken a position. The Board 
had simply asked for comments, and those were now being received. 
If a System spokesman asked banks not to do anything, he would be 
Ukely to create an impression as to what action the Board was 
Q
ventually going to take, whereas the answer to that question was 
n
°t known at this stage. 

11/24/69 
-7-
Chairman Martin then suggested that the Reserve Bank 
Presidents be asked for their views at tomorrow's meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee since a System operation was involved 
that had stirred up a great deal of interest. 
It was understood that the procedure suggested by the 
Chairman would be followed. 
Bill to extend Interest Equalization Tax. A letter to the 
Bureau of the Budget recommending that H.R. 12829, an enrolled bill 
that would extend the Interest Equalization Tax until March 31, 1971, 
be signed by the President was approved unanimously. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 
11/24/69 
3519 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
I n
 the Hatter of the Application of 
T I I E
 CONNECTICUT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
approval of merger with 
The Tradecmenc National Bank of Neu Haven 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has cone before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o
 the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1820(c)), an application by 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, a 
State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank and The Tradesmens National 
^ n k of Neu Haven, Neu Haven, Connecticut, under the charter and name 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. As an incident to the 
m e r
Ger, the four offices of The Tradesmens National Bank of Neu 
Hav 
e
n uould become branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the 
Proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
P u r
suant to said Act. 

O J / C U 
-2-
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the 
light of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports 
furnished by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and 
hereby is approved, provided that said merger shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to 
d e
legated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 24th day of November, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman liartin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer 
and Cherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
/signed/ Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

o r « > 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE CONNECTICUT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE TRADESMANC NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
("Hartford Ban!:"), with total deposits of $880 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Prior approval of the mercer of that bank uith The Tradesmens National 
of Neu Haven, Neu Haven, Connecticut ("Tradesmens"), which has 
t o
tal deposits of $2G million.-^ The banks would merge under the 
barter and name of Hartford Bank, which is a member of the Federal 
ve
^Grve System. As an incident to the merger, the four offices of 
Tr A 
a
 esmens would become branches of Hartford Bank, increasing the number 
0 i :
 its offices to 51. 
Competition. - Hartford Bank has its head office and nine of 
t s
 ^ranches in Hartford; the bank operates its other 37 branches in 
27 c
°mtnunities throughout most of the central and eastern portions of 
iTpi 
M^ures are as of December 31, 1968. 

-2-
Connecticut, and has received authorization to establish three 
additional branches in the central area and one in the eastern area 
of the State. Tradesmens operates its head office and tuo branches 
in Hew Haven; it also has a branch in Hamden, which is about five 
miles north of Hew Haven and within the Hew Haven Standard 
Metropolitan Statistical Area. 
The head offices of the two banks are 36 miles apart. 
Hartford Bank's nearest office to an office of Tradesmens is its 
branch at Wallingford, nine miles northeast of Hamden. Hartford Bank 
also operates two branches in lleriden and two branches in IliddletOTm, 
T,
hich are 14 miles and 17 miles, respectively, northeast of Hamden. 
Both Tradesmens and the Wallingford branch of Hartford Bank derive 
some business from the town of North Haven, but there is no meaning-
ful competition between the banks. 
Hartford Bank is precluded by the home-office-protection 
Mature of State law from establishing d£ novo branches in New Haven 
Q n c i
 Hamden, Both East Haven and West Haven are open to entry by 
fe novo branching, but it is questionable whether an office in either 
t o x , n
 "ould enable Hartford Bank to compete effectively with the New 
Haven banks. There are several towns that are open to entry by de 
S2SO branching, including Wallingford and others in which Hartford 
already has offices, where Tradesmens could become a direct 
c
°
m
Petitor of Hartford Bank. However, in view of the size of 

Tradesmens and its posture in the New Haven/Haraden market, it appears 
unlikely that it would undertake to establish such branches. 
Tradesmens, with 5.3 per cent of the deposits, is the fourth 
largest of the 11 banks operating in the Neu Haven/Hamden area. It is 
substantially smaller than the three largest banks, which hold about 
05 per cent of area deposits. Following the proposed merger, Hartford 
Bank would be the largest bank operating offices in the New Haven/ 
Hamden area. Hartford Bank, \*ith 13.3 per cent of the deposits, is 
the second largest of Connecticut's 66 banks; Tradesmens, with 0.6 
per cent of the total deposits, ranks twenty-second in the Ctate. 
The effect of the merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
are reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The merger would 
have no material effect on the banking convenience and needs of the 
communities in which Hartford Bank presently operates offices. 
Hartford Bank, Connecticut's second largest bank, x;ould 
°ffer a much greater variety of banking services than Tradesmens 
Provides. While many of the services that Hartford Bank would provide 
are already available from the larger New Haven Banks, the addition of 

*7 t:o 
-2-
a convenient alternative source of full banking services would benefit 
the banking convenience and needs of the residents of the Hew Haven/ 
Hamden area. As already indicated, Hartford Bank is precluded by the 
restrictions of State law from establishing de novo branches in New 
Haven and Hamden. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
slightly adverse effect of the merger on competition uould be out-
sighed by the benefits for the banking convenience and needs of the 
New Haven and Hamden communities. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
November 24, 1969. 

Item No. 2 
11/24/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
Orlando, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of all of 
the voting shares (except directors' 
qualifying shares) of Central Park 
First National Bank, Orlando, Florida, 
a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK SHARES OF 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of all of the voting shares 
(except directors
1
 qualifying shares) of Central Park First National Bank, 
Orlando, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Acting Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 

OtrO£> 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 24, 1969 (34 Federal Register 9773), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing 
comments and views has expired and all those received have ueen considered 
b
y the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
St
atement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
fc
han three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
G
*tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atl 
^anta pursuant to delegated authority, and that Central Park First 
^
a t
ional Bank shall be opened for business not later than six months 
a f t
er the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 24th day of November 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Daan^v'Brirafifer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Maisel. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES 
CENTRAL PARK FIRST NATIONAL BANK, 
ORLANDO, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a
 registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
P^suant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
/ I A 
U.s.c. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of all 
(except directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of a proposed 
bank, Central Park First National Bank, Orlando, Florida ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
b
y section 3(b) of the. Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
th 
e
 application to the Comptroller of the Currency, and requested his 
V i e W s 
a n d
 recommendation. The Acting Comptroller of the Currency 
Commended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
a t
 the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
ttiono -I 
J i. 
Poly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
°
no
Polize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 

c r o o 
-2-
of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Florida, which include eight bank 
holding companies, control 3 9 ^ p e r cent of the State's total deposits. 
Applicant holds $351 million in deposits, representing 3.1 per cent of 
the total deposits for the State, and is the State's fifth largest 
hanking organization, and the fifth largest of the State's 13 bank 
holding companies. Applicant estimates that total deposits of Bank will be 
approximately $8 million at the end of its first three-year period, an amount 
e
qu al to less than .1 per cent of the total deposits presently held by 
b
anks located in Florida. 
Applicant became a bank holding company in 1967, through the 
acquisition of The First National Bank at Orlando and four other banks 
* L
A
l \
h
*
n k i
u
g
A
a t a 
a r e 
a S
 °
f D e c e r a b e r 
3
1> 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
retiect holding company acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

-3-
in the Orlando (Orange County) area which had been chartered under the 
sponsorship of First National. The present proposal would represent 
Applicant's first expansion within Orange County since its formation. 
It has acquired, or has received approval to acquire, four banks outside the 
county. The five Orange County subsidiaries hold 42 per cent of the total 
-
deposits held by 18 banks located in the county. The State's largest and 
fourth largest bank holding companies, with 8.3 per cent and 4.9 per cent of 
State deposits, respectively, have offices in Orange County. Their shares 
°f Orange County deposits are 9,6 per cent and 9.7 per cent, respectively. 
Bank is to be situated in the Orlando Central Park industrial 
complex, located approximately two miles southwest of the city limits of 
Orlando, and it will serve a rapidly growing residential and industrial 
suburb that extends two miles north, two miles east, four miles south, and 
five miles west of the proposed site of its office. There are no banks 
presently located within this area. However, there is a pending charter 
a
Pplication for a new State bank to be located two miles east of Bank's 
Proposed site, which application is sponsored by a one-bank holding com-
p l y that controls a bank in Winter Park ($42 million of deposits) and 
0 w
ns substantial interests (slightly less than 25 per cent) in three smaller 
b
anks, all in Orange County. In addition, a bank with $11 million deposits 
i n
 South Orlando, which is affiliated with a $93 million deposit bank in 
°rlando, has received authorization to move its banking office to a lo-
t i o n 
two miles north of Bank's proposed location. 
The closest of Applicant's subsidiaries to Bank are The First 
N a t
ional 
Bank at Orlando, located seven miles north of Bank's proposed 
°ffice. and South Orlando First National Bank, located five miles to the 
n
°rtheast,
The area served by these banks includes a large portion of

- 2 -
Bank's proposed service area. Applicant estimates thfct over 60 per cent 
of Bank's first year deposits would be derived from existing customers 
of the South Orlando bank, and that 80 per cent of Bank's deposits 
of individuals, partnerships, and corporations, and a similar percentage 
of Bank's loans will originate from individuals and businesses already 
served by its two nearby banks and other subsidiaries. Florida law 
prohibits branching, and Applicant asserts that the establishment of a 
new bank represents the only means whereby it can increase the convenience 
of its services to customers in the area to be served by Bank. 
This proposal involves the acquisition of a new bank which 
will not open for business unless the application is approved. Con-
summation of the proposal will not result in the elimination of present 
or potential competition, and will not have an immediate effect on the 
concentration of banking deposits in any area. Nor does it appear that 
such consummation will increase Applicant's market position to an extent 
that would adversely affect other competing banks. Further, the interest 
already evidenced by other banks in locations near Bank's proposed site 
indicates that Bank's establishment and acquisition by Applicant will 
n o t 
d e
ter the efforts of other banking organizations to provide the 
area with competitive services. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly, 
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 

3531 
-5-
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. It does not 
appear that the acquisition would substantially lessen competition, tend 
to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are in satisfactory financial 
condition, and the management of each is considered to be competent 
and satisfactory in all respects. Applicant's existing subsidiaries 
and those approved for acquisition have good earnings and growth records, 
and their prospects appear favorable. 
Bank has no financial or operating history. However, its 
Pro forma capitalization is satisfactory, its proposed management appears 
competent and experienced, and its prospects as a subsidiary of Applicant 
appear favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are regarded 
as consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
Proposed site of Bank is in a rapidly expanding residential and industrial 
a r
e a just outside Orlando. The population of the area which it would 
8 e
rve has increased from 2,500 in 1950 to an estimated 22,000 persons 
a t
 the present time; in addition, the area provides employment for 
,000 persons, many of whom reside outside the immediate area. Projected 
e x
Pansion through attraction of new industries is expected to increase 
a r e
a employment to 50,000 persons over the next five-year period. The 

O t r o o 
anticipated opening of Walt Disney World in 1971, at a location about 
10 miles southwest of Bank's site, will provide the area with a major 
tourist attraction which will further contribute to its economic progress. 
No convenient banking office is available at the present time 
w
ithin Bank's proposed service area, and the needs of area residents are 
being served by Orlando banks located at a distance of from five to nine 
roiles. Applicant's proposal would make banking services more conveniently 
available 
to the area, and this consideration is consistent with approval 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c
°ntained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
ac
quisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
S h o u
l d be approved. 
f* .; 
, 
November 24, 1969. 

31)33 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AMD MAISEL 
In 1967, we dissented from the Board's action approving 
Applicant's proposal to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of five banks which, as a group, dominated banking in 
Orlando and Orange County.V 
The basis for our dissent was that, in 
our judgment, the record presented a reasonable basis for concluding 
that relationships then existing among Applicant's proposed bank 
subsidiaries would be dissipated in the future if not locked in by 
holding company control, and that, in that light, approval of the 
application was precluded by considerations of concentration and potential 
competition. The Board's Statement in support of its approval action 
noted the high degree of concentration in the area, but concluded that 
the proposal would only "replace an affiliate relationship with a bank 
holding company system," and would therefore have no significant effect 
°n the extent of concentration then existing in the area. In support 
0 1
 its action, the Board also noted that "future proposals to expand 
Applicant's system through acquisition of additional banking subsidiaries" 
2 / 
w
°uld be subject to prior approval of the Board.~ 
The present application represents a test of the Board's 
r e
solve to control Applicant's expansion so as to make possible meaningful 
Concentration of Orange County banking. By its action, the majority 
h a s
 failed to meet this test. 
1^967 
Board's decision, and our dissent, in that case are published at 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 235. 
2/ 
I d 
- iS- 
at 237. 

3534 
-2-
The area which Bank would serve has exceptional growth 
Potential, and is located within the area served by two of Applicant's 
subsidiaries. Applicant states that over 80 per cent of Bank's deposits 
b
y individuals, partnerships and corporations and a similar percentage 
°f Bank's loans will originate from individuals and businesses already 
served by its two nearby banks and its other subsidiaries. It can hardly 
b
e doubted that, with the unusual growth predicted for the area, banking 
services will be provided locally. The only real question is whether 
they 
be provided by new competitors or whether the present 
c
°ncentration will be extended into the newly developing area. In our 
°Pmion, the Board's action on this proposal answers this question in a 
banner inconsistent with the public interest and with the Board's earlier 
t a t e d
 Position that future attempts at expansion by Applicant within the 
O r
lando area would be closely scrutinized with the objective of moderating 
c 
r t h
e r impaction in the highly concentrated Orlando area. 
The appropriate analysis of an application such as the present 
one w 
as stated by the Board in a recent decision, as follows: 
"Inasmuch as entry into a commercial banking market 
s restricted, opportunities for deconcentration are limited. 
•Lhis is particularly true in a State . . . where branching is 
^ighly restricted. If every newly developing need for banking 
acilities which arises in a concentrated market were to be 
illed by the market's dominant organization, any meaningful 
econcentration of the market's banking resources would be 
j^ade impossible, and further concentration might be encouraged. 
ach application by such an organization to expand within its 
t h
e S G n t 
t r a d e 
a r e a
>
 
e v e n
 through acquisition of a new bank, must 
erefore be examined to determine its probable effect on existing 
oncentration, whether it will foreclose an opportunity for new 

3535 
-3-
entry which could provide additional competition and possibly 
promote a decrease in concentration, and its effect in limiting 
the development of existing competitors located in or near the 
area to be served by the new institution. .. 3/ 
Applying these criteria to the present application, it is 
our view that acquisition of Bank by Applicant will inevitably serve 
to perpetuate, or even to increase, concentration of banking resources 
in the Orlando area, will make it more difficult for potential entrants 
to establish the economic justification prerequisite to charter approval, 
and will tend to limit the development of existing competitors located 
in and near the area to be served. 
With respect to the "convenience and needs" factor, the 
Proposed acquisition will serve only to make services which are already 
convenient more so, and will tend to deny the area the competitive services 
which are its greatest need. 
We would deny the application. 
November 24, 1969. 
2/ Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation. 1968 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 645, 647-648. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
11/24/69 
•41. Ht-"
5
 •' 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 24, 1969. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D, C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to the Budget Bureau's recant 
request: for priority treatment of the Boaid's views on a Federal 
Home Loan Bank proposal to eliminate "creditor obligations" from 
the base on ;rtiich premiums payable to the Federal Savings and 
Loan Insurance Corporation are calculated. 
Th-a proposal, as set forth in the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board's letter, of November 6 to the Director of the Budget 
Bureau, does not indicate whether the "savings deposits" which 
savings and loan associations were recently permitted to accept 
in lieu of--or in conversion from--savings shares would be 
exempted from the base for determining FSLIC insurance-premium 
payments. The Board presumes, however, that such savings deposits 
would remain as part of the insurance-premium base. 
Nor does there appear to exist a ready basis for 
determining zhe adequacy of FSLIC's already-scheduled insurance-
premium payments to accumulate a reserve which--together with 
other measures available to FSLlC--Would be sufficient to meet 
i t s
 contingent liabilities, as distinguished from its statutory 
reserve requirements. Some independent study of this general 
subject would seem appropriate. 
Aside from these broad considerations, the Board 
elieves that, on balance, the proposal would be consistent with 
the public interest. 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
fl 

Item No. 4 
11/24/69 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
3 5 3 7 
' 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL. R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20US1 
• V i . i N 
1 1 I •.V-.;-/ O. 
ADDHCBB DKMCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
November 24, 1969. 
: v\ 
Mr. Weiford S Farmer, 
Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Farmer: 
Thin refers to your letter of October 28, 19 69. enclosing 
a letter from Dr. R. P. Lumpkin, Senior Vice President of Virginia 
Coifimonwealth Bankshares ("VCB"), a registered bank holding company, 
requesting a ruling from the Board on a question relating to a 
proposed acquisition by VCB and its subsidiary banks of stock in a 
small busines,
1
. investment company ("S3IC"). As wc understand the 
facts, VCB proposes to establish an SBiC (a Virg i n i a c o l p o i a. tiori) 
with two clashes of stock, namely, Class A voting stock and Class B 
nonvoting stock. VCB plans to acquire less than 50 per cent of the 
"Voting stock (Class A), the remainder to be acquired by persons whose 
ownership or control is not directly or indirectly attributable to 
VCB. Under tbe proposal, the holding company would not acquire 
direct or indirect ownership or control of 50 per cent or more of 
the Class A slock of the proposed SBIC. Tha nonvoting stock 
(Cla ss B) would be acquired by VCB s subsidiary banks. Certain pro-
visions of the: Virginia Stock Corporat ion Act (§§ 13.1-57, 13.1-70 
ar
*d 13.1-7 7) grant all shareholders the right to vote in certain 
circumstances whether or not they are entitled to vote under the 
Provi sions of the corporation s articles of incorporation. 
VCB seeks a Board opinion on the question whether the 
above-cited provisions of the Virginia law cause the "nonvoting" stock 
a Virginia corporation to have "potential voting rights" for pur-
Poses of section 302(b) of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 
amended (15 U.S.C. 682(b)) and the Board's interpretation of those 
Provisions to the effect that "[a] bank holding company may not acquire 
direct or indirect ownership or control of .^O per cent or more of the 
shares of any class of equity securities of an SBIC that have actual 
0 r
 potential voting rights." 
(12 CFR 222.111) 

Mr. Kelford S. Farmer 
- 2 -
II: is our understanding that officials of the Small Business 
Administcation have advised VCB that said provisions of Virginia law, 
granting voting rights in certain limited c:• rcumstances, do net cause 
the proposed nonvoting stock (Class B) to hfve "potential voting 
rights" for purposes of section 302(b) of the Small Business Invest-
ment Act, and accordingly there is no obstacle to VCB's subsidiary 
banks acquiring 100 per cent of the Class B stock of the proposed 
SBIC. 
On the facts presented, the Board is of the view that the 
proposed nonvoting stock (Class B) would no: have "potential voting 
rights" for purposes of the Board's ir. terpr^.tation on the extent to 
which holding companies may acquire the stock of SBICs. 
It is requested that ycu advise VCB of the substance of this 
letter and remind the holding company of the additional limitation in 
§ 302(b) of tha Small Business Investment Act that restricts a bank's 
acquisition of shares in .SBICs to 5 per cent of the bank's capital 
and surplus. The Board's views on the applicability of this limita-
tion to holding companies and their subsidiaries are included in the 
above-citea interpretation. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

V ' f j j * V " I w 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
n F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V , ' A 5 H I N f j T O N , O. C. 
2 0 S S ! 
3539 
Item No. 5 
11/24/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 24, 1 9 6 9 . 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of 
November 21, 1969 , for viev;s and reccmnendaticns of 
the Board of Governors with respect to enrolled bill 
R. R. 128 29, "To provide an extension c1 the interest 
equalization tax, and for other purposes." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of 
the bill. 
