at i. 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 9, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act entries covering the items in this set of 
minutes commencing on the pages and dealing with the subjects 
referred to below: 
. . a, a.'i-' vjiv 
c - j. > • 
- ... -
Page A Amendment to Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines. 
„ ' 
! 
•. .;. 
. t i . ' i 
Page 8 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
reduction at Federal Reserve Banks of 
St. Louis and Kansas City. 

633 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 9, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Boardi 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
i Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy GeneraljCounsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
e^Ghase j Associaibe Director? Division: 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 

634 
3/9/72 
-7-
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, 
Office of^ i:he Secretary 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
U I » ; 
, 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to Valley National Bank of Long Island, Valley Stream, New York, 
jf;;'^ ...... • 
rrt j. • -J,.... ..>,••«.... .. 
"sifcj-i 'Biif'i 
O-- 
viV.-iJ.-N*. 1 
aPProving the application made on behalf of Valley Bank of New York, 
Valley Stream, New York, for admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on February 14, 1972, of the application of 
County National Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri, to acquire shares 
o f Big Bend Bank, Webster Groves, Missouri. Copies of the documents 
> . 
, .• . .• 
„..„• . .. .... . 
'"•!,'» j O r f i f r f d ' • 
>UI' 
a r e attached under Item No. 2, together with the dissenting statement 
r r 
, . . 
' 
.. 
. , I .. , 
; , 
of Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on February 17, 1972, of the applications of Old 
Colony Co-operative Bank, Providence, Rhode Island, (1) to retain 

634 
3/9/72 
-2-
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistants, 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
t.0» i . 
, .,.-..,.. .. 
. 
.... 
... > 
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter 
to Valley National Bank of Long Island, Valley Stream, New York, 
aPproving the application made on behalf of Valley Bank of New York, 
Valley 
Stream, New York, for admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on February 14, 1972, of the application of 
County National Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri, to acquire shares 
o f Big Bend Bank, Webster Groves, Missouri. 
Copies of the documents 
attache^-uhd£r Itett^Nor^f Bogeiiher^itli M e ^fssent&rig dtat^men^" 
Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 
K 
' , .t _ ^ _ 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on February 17, 1972, of the applications of Old 
Colony Co-operative Bank, Providence, Rhode Island, (1) to retain 

635 
3/9/72 
-3-
shares of The Newport National Bank, Newport, Rhode Island, and (2) to 
continue to engage in the activities of a thrift institution. 
Copies 
°f the order and statement are attached under Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Check processing center. 
In a June 1971 policy statement, 
the Board placed high priority on improving the nation's payments 
mechanism and, subsequently, endorsed guidelines for the establishment 
o f regional check processing centers. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas now proposed to establish such a center to serve the Dallas-
Fort Worth area. 
In a memorandum dated March 7, 1972, the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval of the proposal 
subject to certain provisions. 
The Division also recommended that the 
Board approve additional positions in the Dallas Reserve Bank's employ-
ment ceiling, as well as an increase in the Bank's 1972 budget. A 
draft letter in that form was attached. 
The Board approved unanimously the letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 4. 
Crocker National Corporation. 
The Board authorized the issuance 
o f an order, including a concurring statement of Chairman Burns, 
reflecting denial on January 21, 1972, of the application of Crocker 
National Corporation, San Francisco, California, to acquire shares 

638 
3/9/72 
-7-
of Ralph C. Sutro Co., Los Angeles, California, a mortgage banking 
company. Copies of the order and statement, together with the dis-
senting statement of Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan, are 
attached under Item No. 5. 
Amendment to VFCR. 
In a memorandum dated March 8, 1972, 
Governor Brimmer stated that since the revision of the Voluntary 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, on November 11, 1971, there had 
been a marked intensification of the interest of bank holding companies 
to have banks that were in their groups and that did not have VFCR 
ceilings adopt them and then consolidate them with ceilings of the 
lead banks, or with ceilings of other foreign lending banks in the 
holding companies. Governor Brimmer believed that this action by 
bank holding companies was not in keeping with the express intention 
°f the Board to make ceilings available to banks that desired to enter, 
and 
actively engage in, the foreign lending field. Therefore, Governor 
dimmer recommended that the Board amend the VFCR Guidelines to preclude 
the possibility of a "newcomer" bank consolidating its ceiling with 
that of one or more other banks in a holding company of which it was a 
member. 
Following discussion during which suggestions for clarifying 
language were made, the amendment to the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines was approved unanimously. A copy of the press 
-iiOii* 
<; -v 
v -r-Vc .; 
release announcing this action is attached as Item No. 6. 

3/9/72 
-5-
The meeting then adjourned and reconvened at 11:50 a.m., with 
the same attendance as at the earlier session, except that, in addition, 
Chairman Burns and Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board, joined the 
meeting, as did Mr. Schultz, Senior Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. 
Proposed amendments to Regulations D and J. Discussion con-
tinued at today's meeting of the proposal to amend Regulation D 
(Reserves of Member Banks) so as to restructure member bank reserve 
requirements, the action to be taken in conjunction with the adoption 
o f an amendment to Regulation J (Collection of Checks and Other Items 
by Federal Reserve Banks) that would require payment of checks on day 
o f presentment. 
The specific recommendation under consideration for 
imposition of reserve requirements was as follows: 
10 per cent on 
deposits under $10 million, 13 per cent on deposits between $10 and 
$200 million, and 17-1/2 per cent on deposits over $200 million. 
Additional documentation that had been prepared, subsequent to 
consideration of the proposals on February 25 and 29, 1972, included the 
following: 
(1) a memorandum dated February 25, 1972, from the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, providing background infor-
mation relating to float; 
(2) a memorandum dated March 2, 1972, from the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations, proposing a decreasing grand-
father clause that would allow a longer period of time, scaled to 
size of adjustment, within which large country banks might conform 
to restructured reserve requirements; and 

638 
3/9/72 
-6-
(3) a memorandum dated March 7, 1972, from the Office of 
Executive Director, submitting (a) draft notices of proposed 
rule making for publication in the Federal Register, (b) press 
releases describing each of the proposals individually as well 
as a covering release emphasizing the complementary nature of 
the changes, (c) a memorandum outlining an educational and 
promotional campaign to be put into effect immediately upon 
favorable Board action on the proposals, and (d) a draft tele-
gram to the heads of all foreign central banks advising them 
of the action and its import. 
• >-• r• i.>• i v>i 
v / !--. .^i.^i-i 
..t-.i 
sVr 
Discussion at today's meeting developed a consensus in favor 
°f early publication in the Federal Register of proposed amendments 
an i, 
< : 
u.;v .jc',:;;:--- J. .j ^ i c: t'la^--; 
l:\ 
to Regulations D and J with a possible request for receipt of comments 
^ rati . . 
,. , ; , i- 
i^l.'id 
- \ 
bY May 1, 1972. 
It was understood, however, that this date might be 
I'^itu.i 
i' ?'. < 
>ak» 
: 
subject to change during the course of future discussions. 
While the staff proposal on Regulation D contemplated that 
i\i '! *'•:'<: :f fil " 
is j.w,A • 
« 
" > i -' • i' « 
' * 
• • 
i ' ' 
reserve requirements be based on net demand deposits, it was understood 
fchat a proposal to use gross demand liabilities as a base would be the 
^ 
cari-Ud ,,u ..nuril' v: r , >,: 
• e 
• ' « 
.. 
Subject of future study. 
There was no crystallization of a majority view regarding size 
breakdown for changes in reserve classes. General concern was expressed 
Cvt thi:.;,f- 
;Jri .;t> 
^hU.;. 
^ V ^ u i 
.-'O 
that the impact of the proposed changes on various classes of banks 
should be equitable, and it was suggested that further evaluation of 
Probable effects would be helpful in reaching agreement on specific 
ranges. one specific suggestion discussed was that of a lower reserve 
requirement of 7 or 8 per cent on demand deposits from $0 to $5 million. 

639 
3/9/72 
-7-
Among other suggestions a preference was expressed for a move away 
from the grandfather concept toward raising the top demand deposit 
class above the proposed $200 million cut-off. Ranges proposed at 
fche top of the scale included graduations at $300, $400, $500 million 
and/or $1 billion. There was support for the view that a transitional 
adjustment period of five years should be allowed for banks experi-
encing an increase in reserve requirements. There was also support 
f°r an alternative suggestion that the top demand deposit class should 
b e raised and the transitional adjustment period eliminated. 
In 
.. 
'.: J, i i 
addition, the possibility of offsetting adverse effects through open 
' * '-•• 
> : » 1 \vr • ' 
• j ; / 
' 
' •' 
; 
market operations was mentioned. 
' 
ff-^w 
e ilm K-i 
1-i'J.f. - 
"*i«v i- 
? v 
In further discussion there was agreement that an information 
Program should be employed, that it should be low keyed in approach 
and carried on primarily by the Federal Reserve Banks. The public 
relations aspect of proposed press releases was also stressed, and 
comments were directed to the importance of their role in interpreting 
the import of Board action to the public. 
Several suggestions were 
made relating to emphasis and approach to meet related problems. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood 
that additional documentation would be prepared in light of the views 
' • r,i ' J i; , it- ; ' t ' u C ': "*,"-
e*Pressed by members of the Board, and that the matter would be 
1 
.: 
brought back for further consideration. 

640 
3/9/72 
-8-
CP ' . • , , 
....... ; . 
i 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
lu 
. . 
... : . 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On March 2, 1972, the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Kansas City had established, subject to review and determination 
by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4 per cent (a decrease from 4-1/2 
Per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 
!3 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, together with appropriately 
corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under other sections of the 
A c t- 
(On March 3, 1972, the Board had considered the Kansas City Bank's 
action, but had agreed at that time to discuss the matter further at a 
meeting when more Board members would be present.) 
r »v> • 
Discussion at today's meeting developed majority support against 
a discount rate action at this time, especially in light of the currently 
o^E fch^ dolliir iri 
«cihanieuiMrlc^ itnd recent: 
ifte^eases" in ' c l 8 m e s f ^'tt^rt-t:em ^tereifc 'ifatesVJ Governor:lol>erfitorii 
indicated that while he was inclined to favor a lower rate, he would 
n°t vote against an action to disapprove the pending reduction at this 
tirne. 
in his view the Board should follow a policy of making prompt 
^jQstm^fitk in1 thi' discodnt 
llSng^r an a d ^ o n was 
* 
more difficult! it: Befcame* to feafeer it. ^ 
The Board then agreed by unanimous vote to disapprove the 
discount rate action taken by the Kansas City Bank, with the under-
s tandi n g that the Bank would be advised of the Board's action by 

641 
3/9/72 
-9-
telephone today and that a letter outlining the considerations involved 
In the Board's decision would also be sent. 
Staf f repbrted that several other1 iWerat Reserve Banks were 
contemplating reductions in their discount rates, and the Secretary 
therefore authorized to disapprove, on behalf of the Board, any 
actions taken by additional Federal Reserve Banks to reduce their rate. 
(Note: Later in the day the Secretary, acting on behalf of the Board, 
disapproved an action taken by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
to reduce its discount rate to 4 per cent and the St. Louis Bank was 
Promptly notified of the disapproval by telephone. 
Copies of identical 
letters subsequently sent to the two Banks are attached under 
Jtgm_No. 7 ) 
Other discount rates. The Board approved unanimously action 
taken by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston and Richmond on March 6, 
1972, establishing without change the rates on discounts and advances 
their existing schedules, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reserve Bank foreign travel. 
In a memorandum dated March 8, 
1 9 7 2 , the Committee on Travel reviewed proposed foreign travel programs 
for 1972 of the various Federal Reserve Banks and recommended their 
aPproval, subject to certain modifications. 

642 
. ' 
• ' 
• 
• • 
• 
ilo 
. 
3/9/72 
3/9/72 
-10-
After a discussion focusing primarily on foreign travel by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, it was understood that the 
Committee would discuss further the foreign travel plans of the 
New York Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
V^U; ; ... 
V- ; L i e . .; ,. 
• 
• 
; 
> 
. • ' : 
. 
V a i l , 
A > 
."! , • I) ' •' 
o * 
;. ;.*!<• ..v a i 
-
~r i t' 
' ..<•'.. . V. H' • 
' 
c - 
-'i> ;>--«' -
." ; . i ' '."i; .C 
' •'! 
; ' •• > •' • ,;.!;• 
. • . 
<>•;' f ' .'i I : • ' •'• ! 
, i 
; i • ; lit • r •' ,' : ' • • .• 
<10 
• : ' • 
p 
i Mi 
. 
' ' 
' ?5 
; j. . • f.; • >£ 
: 
> '•• -
• n . t"::. i i. .'"i'i >y •' 

* - 'Mi. RF.S^, • 
643 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
DF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
3/9/72 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COnRESPDNDCNCE 
TD THE HQARD 
March 9, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Valley National Bank of Long Island 
Valley Stream, New York 
11582 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Valley Bank of New York, Valley Stream 
New York, made on its behalf by Valley National Bank or Long Island, 
Valley Stream, New York, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the per-
mission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change 
to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2 0 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208./ 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors also approves the establishment 
and operation by the resulting bank of 21 branches now operated by 
Valley National Bank of Long Island. 

644 
- 
6 ' 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the 
deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of: Federal Reserve Bank stock 
bas been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

Item No. £ 5 4 5 
3/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COUNTY NATIONAL BANCORPORATION 
. 
.. i.iUtj. 
. 
. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
County National Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire not less than 90 per 
C e n t of the voting shares of Big Bend Bank, Webster Groves, Missouri 
("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
j 
a vieus has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th 
6 Masons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date, provided 
th 
the transaction shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
a*endar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
n s after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good « 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
t S u a n t to delegated authority, and provided further that upon con-
Uln^ation of the proposed transaction, Applicant shall not retain or 
r e any nonbanlc shares or engage in any nonbanking activities to 
8reater extent or for a longer period than would apply in the case 
of a K 1 
°ank holding company which became such on the date of such con-
»-ion, except to the extent otherwise pcrm-ft-.ted in any regulation 

646 
- 
6 ' 
of the Board hereafter adoptad specifically relating to the effect of 
acquisition of an additional bank on the status of nonbanlc shares 
an<l activities of a one-banlc holding company formed prior to 1971, or 
Ut*less the Board fails to adopt any such regulation before the expiration 
of two years after the consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," March 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
Voting for this action: 
a ne» and Maisel. 
Bri 
'•miner, and Sheehan. 
Chairman Burns, and Governors Mitchell, 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, 

647 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATION BY 
COUNTY NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, CLAYTON, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANK 
Nature of transaction, - County National Bancorporation, 
Clayton, Missouri, a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisi-
tion of at least 90 per cent of the voting shares of Big Bend Bank, 
Webster Groves, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant's one subsidiary bank, 
st. Louis County National Bank ($229.6 million deposits), which is 
located in Clayton, is the largest bank in St. Louis County and the 
fourth largest bank in the St. Louis banking market with about 4 
Per cent of market deposits. Upon consummation of the proposal 
herein, Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State would 
b e increased insignificantly by .1 per cent to 2.1 per cent, while 
Its ranking as the State's eighth largest banking organization would 
Remain tha same. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970.) 
Bank ($20.6 million deposits) is located in Webster Groves 
i n St. Louis County, approximately 5.5 miles south of Applicant's lead 
hank, and is the 52nd largest of the banking organizations operating in 
St. Louis banking market. Within Bank's primary service area 
(approximated by the communities of Brentwood, Crestwood, Kirlcwood, 
^aplewood, Affton, and Webster Groves), Bank ranks as the smallest 
o f seven banks in the area, three of which are subsidiaries of multi-
bank holding companies significantly larger than Applicant. Bank holds 
about 10 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in its service area. 

- 
6 ' 
648 
In connection with its review of the proposal, the Board has 
considered comments filed by the Department of Justice indicating that 
the overall effect of the proposal on competition would be significantly 
adverse. The Department indicates that significant existing competition 
between Applicant's present subsidiary and Bank would be eliminated 
by the proposal; that the acquisition would further raise the concen-
tration of deposits in an already concentrated area; and that the 
acquisition would have an adverse effect on potential competition by 
removing Applicant as a de novo entrant into the Webster Groves area 
and by eliminating Bank as a vehicle for entry by other holding companies 
n°t already operating in the area. 
The Board does not consider the elimination of the competition 
listing between Applicant's present subsidiary bank and Bank to be 
such as to warrant denial of the proposal. While there is some com-
Petitive overlap between the two banks, the banks are not, in fact, 
significant competitors. Bank is primarily retail oriented, serving 
Principally as a savings institution with emphasis on consumer and 
installment type loans. St. Louis Gounty National is primarily com-
^srcial oriented, with emphasis on commercial loans and business 
accounts. Although there is some existing competition between the 
banks arising from the proximity of their locations, because of the 
nature of the institutions and type of customers each serves, the Board 
not consider the anticompetitive effects to be substantial. 

64S 
-3-
furthermore, when viewed in the context of the St. Louis banking 
market, the quantum of existing competition which would be eliminated 
by 
the proposed transaction is not significant. 
Bank presently competes with banks which include subsidiaries 
o f holding companies which are the third, fourth, and fifth largest 
banking organizations in the State, holding, respectively, approximately 
4.5, and 4 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Even after this acquisition, Applicant would control only slightly 
than 2 per cent of the deposits in the State. In the St. Louis 
banking market, Applicants present subsidiary holds 4.0 per cent of 
the deposits, and Bank holds .4 per cent of such deposits. Thus 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would not eliminate a 
significant degree of competition In the relevant market, and viewed 
in the context of the impact on competition in the market, the 
elimination of any future competition between Applicant's subsidiary 
a n d Bank is not regarded as substantial. On the contrary, consummation 
the proposed transaction should enable Bank to compete more effectively 
i n the relevant market and result in a salutary effect on competition. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
competitive effects of the proposal are not inconsistent with 
aPproval of the application, and for the reasons discussed hereinafter, 
anY elimination of existing competition that may result is more than 
°utweighed by the benefits that would result from the proposal. 

64S 
-3-
The financial condition and management of the Applicant 
and its subsidiaryare regarded as satisfactory and consistent with 
approval. Bank has experienced some losses in its installment loan 
operations and does have a management succession problem. Applicant 
Plans to supply additional capital to Bank and to provide Bank with 
management personnel. As a subsidiary of Applicant, therefore, Bank's 
Prospects appear to be favorable, and considerations relating to banking 
factors lend weight toward approval of the application. 
The present banking needs of the Webster Groves area are 
beJ-ng met by the existing institutions. However, the area is 
experiencing growth, and Bank's ability to offer a broader range of 
service as a subsidiary of Applicant should benefit the convenience 
and needs of the residents of Bank's service area. Applicant intends 
assist Bank in developing commercial and industrial business, 
Processing 
mortgage loans, and providing data processing services, 
a subsidiary of Applicant, Bank should be able to compete more 
ef£ectively with the other larger banks which are already offering 
ese services either independently or as a subsidiary of a holding 
c°mpany. These considerations lend strong weight toward approval of 
t h e appiication. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°fttained in the record and in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
is -t 
J-n the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
IIarch 9, 1972. 

651 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, BRIMMER, AND SHEEHAN 
We disagree with the conclusion of the majority that the 
Proposal would produce benefits to the communities to be served that 
°utweigh the adverse effects the proposal would have on competition. 
agree with the conclusion expressed by the Department of Justice, 
that consummation of the proposal would have a "significantly adverse" 
effect on competition, and therefore, we would deny the application. 
Applicant's present subsidiary is the fourth largest banking 
Or8anization and the most significant competitive force in St. Louis 
County, one of the fastest growing areas in Missouri. Bank is located 
°nly 5.5 miles to the south of Applicant's subsidiary. This geographical 
Pr°ximity, coupled with the interdependence of the communities in the 
area> leads to the conclusion that the two banks are competitors. This 
inclusion is supported by the facts of record which reveal that each 
draws substantial deposit and loan business from the immediate 
area of the other. On the basis of dollar amounts, Applicant derives 
al*ost as much in deposits (83.9 per cent) and about twice as much in 
ls U00.5 per cent) as Bank itself derives from its own service area. 
This . 
> in our view, is substantial competition. Furthermore, the banks 
°ffer 
a similar range of services and are alternative sources of banking 
acJ-lities for banking customers in the area. This competition would be 
teclosed by consummation of the proposed transaction. 
Because of its size and its location in the commercial, 
ancial, and political center of St. Louis County, Applicant's 

652 
- 
6 ' 
Present subsidiary is one of the area's dominant banking organizations* 
As the Department of Justice noted, Applicant already controls approxi-
mately 32 per cent of the deposits in east central St. Louis County, 
an<* the present proposal would increase that concentration to about 
35 Per cent of such deposits. In concluding that the competitive 
effects of the proposed transaction should be assessed in the east central 
St« Louis County area, rather than in the entire St. Louis metropolitan 
area> as has the majority, we have been guided by recent decisions of 
t h e Supreme Court. In U.S. v. Philadelphia Nat. Bank, 374 U.S. 321, 
357» in arriving at a determination of the proper relevant market in 
that case, the court stated: 
The proper question to be asked in this case is not where 
the parties to the merger do business or even where they 
compete, but where, within the area of competitive overlap, 
the effect of the merger on competition will be direct and 
immediate. . . . This depends upon "the geographic struc-
ture of supplier-customer relations." . . . In banking, 
as in most service industries, convenience of location is 
essential to effective competition. Individuals and corpora-
tions typically confer the bulk of their patronage on banks 
in their local community they find it impractical to con-
duct their banking business at a distance. . . . 
recently in U.S. v. Phillipsburg National Bank, 399 U.S. 350, 362, 
th 
6 court stated, in discussing the relevant market question, that: 
Commercial realities in the banking industry make 
clear that banks generally have a very localized business. 
We observed in Philadelphia Bank, supra, at 358, that 
[i]n banking, as in most service industries, convenience 
°f location is essential to effective competition. In-
dividuals and corporations typically confer the bulk of 
their patronage on banks in their local communities; they 
find it impractical to conduct their banking business at 

- 
6 ' 
653 
Thi 
in 
a distance. . . . The factor of inconvenience localizes 
banking competition as effectively as high transportation 
costs in other industries." In locating "the market area 
in which the seller operates," it is important to consider 
the places from which it draws its business, the location 
of its offices, and where it seeks business. 
The already high level of concentration of banking resources in east 
St» Louis County would be further enhanced by the proposed acquisition. 
s is a matter of significant concern to us. 
Of equal concern is Applicant's effort to expand its influence 
a Portion of St. Louis County in which it already competes. In 
ll8ht of the comments noted above, we believe it would be preferable 
f°r Applicant to expand in east St. Louis County either de novo or 
by Squiring a bank in an area in which Applicant is not already 
^inant. There is no doubt that Bank's service area would support 
an°ther new bank; it is also clear that Applicant possesses the financial 
Sources for meaningful de novo entry. From a competitive standpoint, 
e^ther of these alternatives is clearly preferable to the proposal herein. 
^Urthermore, de novo entry t*ould have the added beneficial effect of 
an additional source of banking services rather than removing 
as an alternative source for such services for the residents of 
Banif' o 
s service area. 
On the basis of the record, we would conclude that Applicant's 
Pr°Posal would have a significantly adverse effect on existing and potential 
^Petition. 
In light of this situation, the Banlc Holding Company Act 
pecifically requires that the Board deny the application unless it finds 
beilefits in terms of convenience and needs that outweigh the significantly 

654 
-4-
a<*verse effects on competition. The majority points to no new services 
l c h Applicant is not already offering in Bank's service area. The 
aHeged benefits that the majority indicates would flow from the proposal 
not such as would outweigh the significantly adverse effects on 
c°mPetition. Accordingly, the statutory requirement of a clear out-
^eighing of anticompetitive effects is not fulfilled. 
We would, therefore, deny the application. 
«arch 9, 1972. 

655 
Item No. 3 
3/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
OLD COLONY CO-OPERATIVE BANK 
Order Approving Retention of Bank and 
Continuation of the Activities of a Thrift Institution 
Old Colony Co-operative Bank, Providence, Rhode Island, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) and § 4(c)(8) of the 
B a n k Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1) and 1843(a)(8)) to retain 
8 7 , 1 5 Per cent or more of the voting shares of The Newport National Bank, 
^eWport> Rhode Island, and to continue to engage in the activities of a 
thr*ft institution. 
Pursuant to § 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
receipt of the application to retain voting shares of a bank to the 
jjj^.,. , 
toller of the Currency and requested his views and recommendation; 
e Comptroller recommended approval. Additionally, the Bank Commissioner 
H le Director of the Department of Business Regulation for the State 
Of J^r 
e island recommended that the applications be approved. 
Notices regarding the receipt of the applications and the Board's 
decj o-f 
°n to conduct a hearing with respect to the applications were pub-
lished -f 
^ the Federal Register on November 12, 1971 (36 Federal Register 
» 21710). The hearing was held before available members of the 
November 29, 1971. All persons desiring to give testimony, 
to do 
PteSent evidence or otherwise participate in the hearing were permitted 
So* Time for filing additional comments and views has expired; 
* u 
received and the entire record of the hearing have been considered 
those 
^ t h e Board. 

656 
- 
6 ' 
On the basis of the record and other relevant material, the 
aPPlications are approved for the reasons set forth in the Board's State-
ment of this date. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 9, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
^ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
aane» Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

657 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
OLD COLONY CO-OPERATIVE BANK, PROVIDENCE, RHODE ISLAND, 
FOR APPROVAL OF RETENTION OF A BANK AND 
CONTINUATION OF ACTIVITIES OF A THRIFT INSTITUTION 
STATEMENT 
1/ 
Applicant is a State-chartered building and loan association 
fchat became a bank holding company by its acquisition of shares in The 
Newport National Bank, Newport, Rhode Island, in January of 1971 apparently 
Without knowledge that such acquisition required Board approval under the 
B a n k Holding Company Act.^ Subsequently, pursuant to contracts entered into 
ln January and February of 1971 and decisions handed down by the United 
States District Court for the District of Rhode Island, Applicant pur-
chased additional shares of Bank. The present applications are for 
the 
e board's permission to retain all shares acquired and to continue 
th 
activities of a thrift institution. 
In view of the issues raised by these applications and a 
Pto 
P°sal involving another Rhode Island thrift institution, the Board 
pubUshed notice of its decision to hold a hearing regarding Rhode 
thrift institutions investments in commercial banks. Applicant 
Rhode Island Legislature, in 1970, specifically authorized an 
pan
 ciation such as Applicant to establish de novo a bank or trust corn-
er t ° r t 0 h o l d a m aJ° r i ty o f the issued and outstanding stock of a bank 
2/ 0
t U s t company. 
n June 22, 1971, the Board ordered that any company which acquired 
Prt0
 
betveen December 31, 1970, and June 22, 1971, without first securing 
fll r B o a r d approval because of lack of knowledge of that requirement might 
With
 f o r such approval by August 31, 1971. Applicant filed its application 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on August 30, 1971. 

658 
- 
6 ' 
in the hearing by presenting testimony bearing on the 
questions before the Board. The Board has considered the applications, 
tl*e comments received, and the evidence offered at the hearing, including 
testimony presented by representatives of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
exPressing opposition to the proposal. 
Applicant is the largest thrift institution and fifth largest 
financial organization in Rhode Island. It is headquartered in Providence 
and operates 13 branches in the Providence banking market and one branch 
25 
miles south of Providence. Applicant presently holds $308.9 million 
in deposits, which represent 8.9 per cent of the total deposits held 
by a U the financial organizations in Rhode Island. Because of its 
inabiiity to offer checking account services, Applicant is at a distinct 
CoinPetitive disadvantage in relation to the 11 commercial banks, 6 
^tual savings banks, and 8 credit unions in the Providence market 
V^ich presently accept demand deposits or are authorized to do 
Newport Bank ($28.1 million deposits) is the second largest of 
n i n e financial organizations operating in the Newport market and holds about 
19 
Per cent of the total deposits derived from the area. There is little 
6aiUngful competition between Applicant and Bank at the present time, 
it: is unlikely that such competition would develop in the future, 
serves different and distinct markets and their nearest offices are 
parated by a distance of 14 miles and a toll bridge costing $2.00 
Subgirf m u C u a l savings bank in Rhode Island owns a commercial bank 
l97x 
ary through which it offers checking account services. In 
UlU0' t h e R h o d e Island Legislature authorized State-chartered credit 
n s with shares over $1 million to accept demand deposits. 

659 
-3-
Per round trip. Furthermore, it is unlikely that either Applicant or 
a U k W o u l d independently branch into the area served by the other. It 
PPears, therefore, that no meaningful competition would be eliminated, 
r significant potential competition foreclosed, by the approval of 
applicant's proposal. 
On the contrary, as a result of approval of Applicant's 
PropOSal 
competition should be increased in each of the markets served 
Applicant and Bank. Applicant proposes establishing an office of Bank 
in each 
of its existing offices, thereby enabling Applicant to offer 
check-? 
n8 account services, and a branch of Applicant in each of Bank's 
^ ^ i c p Q 
mi 
• The effect would be to add an additional source of commercial 
n8 services to the Providence market and an additional source of 
^Uft -r 
institution services to the Newport market. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant are 
e as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the proposal, 
and its Prospects upon approval of the proposal appear favorable. Bank 
0lI1ewhat undercapitalized and needs management personnel. Appli-
C'nt intend* . 
, 
» , 
u a s t 0 assist Bank in remedying these deficiencies; it possesses 
th the r 
resources and expertise to do so. Prospects of Bank as a 
ry of Applicant appear favorable. The major banking needs of 
0vidence and Newport areas are presently being met by the existing 
utions, and approval of this proposal would result in no new services, 
the B oard's judgment, the balance of the banking factors the Board 
V. 
red to consider under section 3(c) of the Act favors approval. 

660 
-4-
In considering Applicant's request to continue the activities 
o f a thrift institution, the Board has determined that, in view of the 
history of affiliation of mutual thrift institutions and commercial banks 
^ Rhode Island, Applicant's continuing to engage in the activities of 
a thrift institution is so closely related to Rhode Island banking as to 
b e a proper incident thereto. As the Board noted in the recent case 
involving another Rhode Island thrift institution, the Board believes 
that the situation in Rhode Island may and should be treated separately 
fr°m the question whether the operation of a savings and loan association 
by a bank holding company is so closely related to banking that it can 
b e a permissible activity within the meaning of section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act. 
Approval of the applications would permit Applicant to com-
P e te more effectively with the other Rhode Island financial organizations 
in which a thrift institution owns a commercial bank. This should 
Produce benefits to the public of greater convenience and increased 
competition without any significant adverse effects. Therefore, the 
c°nsiderations affecting the competitive factors under section 3(c) of 
t h e Act and the balance of the public interest factors the Board must 
c°nsider under section 4(c)(8) of the Act in permitting a holding com-
Pariy to engage in an activity on the basis that it is closely related 
to anking both favor approval. 

661 
-5-
Conclusion. On the basis of all the relevant facts before 
it:> including the record of the hearing relating to this matter, the 
B°ard concludes that the proposal would be in the public interest and 
tllat the applications should be approved. 
"arch 9, 1972. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
3/9/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1972 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
The Board of Governors has approved the pro-
posal of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the 
establishment of a Regional Check Processing Center to 
serve the Dallas-Fort Worth area. The Board understands 
that as soon as the Houston Regional Check Processing 
Center is operating, a uniform cut-off time will be 
established for all items, whether sent by participa-
ting banks, Federal Reserve offices, or direct-sending 
member banks. 
The Board has, further, approved an increase 
of 84 positions in the present employment ceiling of 
1,059 and an estimated increase of $525,000 in the 1972 
budget of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas for the 
implementation and operation of the Dallas-Fort Worth 
Regional Check Processing Center. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 
3/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CROCKER NATIONAL CORPORATION 
aer Denying Determination under § 4(c)(8) of Bank Holding Company Act 
Crocker National Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
of 1956, has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire 
a l 1 of the voting shares of Ralph C. Sutro Co. ("Sutro"), Los Angeles, 
CaUfornia. Notice of the application affording opportunity for 
*nterested persons to submit comments and views was duly published. 
The time for filing comments and views has expired and all received 
a v e been considered, including those presented orally and in writing 
l n connection with a Board hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining 
to 
mortgage banking in general, and this application in particular. 
Applicant owns the Crocker National Bank ("Bank"), San 
a n c i s c o> the twelfth largest bank in the country and the fourth 
lar8est in California. Bank's total deposits of $4.4 billion 
e 3 e n t 8.5 per cent of all commercial bank deposits In the State. 
Perates 283 branches which are located throughout the State 
California with the principal exceptions of San Diego and Imperial 
countl ea« Through Bank, Applicant originates mortgages for Its 
account and services its own mortgage loan portfolio, which 
'6Gds $300 million. 

- 
6 ' 
664 
Sutro is active in the origination of mortgage loans in most 
o f the major markets in California, and is in direct competition with 
Bank for originations in many of these markets. Headquartered in 
Los Angeles, Sutro operates branch offices in Orange County, San Diego, 
San Francisco. Sutro is the 29th largest mortgage banking firm 
in the country, based on its mortgage servicing portfolio of $560.2 
1/ 
2/ 
million."" 
of real estate mortgages recorded in the Los Angeles area-' 
during 1970, Bank originated approximately $35 million mortgage loans, 
^presenting 0.5 per cent of all originations in that market. Sutro 
originated approximately $45 million mortgage loans in the Los Angeles 
area, or 0.7 per cent in the same market. In the six-county San 
<3 j 
Francisco market,"" Bank's mortgage loan originations represented 
a market share of 2.4 per cent, while those of Sutro represented 
0 , 1 per cent. Consummation of the proposed transaction would foreclose 
this existing competition. 
Both Applicant and Sutro have the capability and appear 
t o have the incentive to enter geographic markets in which neither 
has offices. In view of the size, resources, experience, and expertise 
0 f both parties and the structural conditions of the California mortgage 
Market, the Board believes that the likelihood for competition between 
applicant and Sutro in new markets is substantial and that the Applicant 
shouicj e n t e r those markets either by the establishment of new offices 
°r> Perhaps, through the acquisition of a small going concern. 
XT-rr-— 
j Mortgage servicing data as of June 30, 1971. 
y 
Angeles, Ventura, Orange and Santa Barbara Counties. 
Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisco, San Mateo and 
t a Clara Counties. 

665 
The Board also views unfavorably the concentration of economic 
^sources 
that would result from the proposed acquisition.— 
The 
Proposal would combine one of the largest commercial banks in California 
and the nation with a mortgage company that itself is of major significance 
ln its field. The consolidated assets of the two financial institutions 
W°uld exceed $6 billion; their combined mortgage servicing portfolio 
Would approximate $877 million. 
Applicant states that California mortgage companies find 
lt essential to look to markets outside California to satisfy the demands 
their institutional investors, because California is shifting from 
a CaPital deficit state to a capital surplus state. On the other hand, 
__ 
Je
 with respect to an undue concentration of resources, the Conference 
st
Port accompanying the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act 
p o
a t e s : 
"The danger of undue concentration of economic resources and 
tto*r i s one of the factors which led to the enactment of this legisla-
evoi' a n d constitutes a significant threat to the continued healthy 
the U t l o n o f o u r free economy. American trade has always operated on 
3hou?rinClple t h a t r e l a t i o n s h i P s between businessmen, large and small, 
nati 
b e f°unded 0,1 economic merit rather than monopoly power. Our 
in t°nal p o l i c i e s o f limited governmental regulation and interference 
c e n t
r a d e and commerce, however, do make it possible for undue con-
fai
 rations of resources and economic power to override fundamental 
p0 - a s a n d economic merit when responding to the profit motive. This 
tnone 
y ia e n h a n c e d when concentrations of power are centered about 
eCo 
credit and other financial areas, the common denominators of the 
B°ardIny ' • • • I t should be clear that this legislation directs the 
of
 
0 to consider all reasonable ramifications of the concentration 
Henrt
eS°Urces l n fulfilling its reaponsihilities under Section 4." 
P r t No. 91-1747, p. 17. 

666 
- 
6 ' 
n<> significant public benefit to California borrowers would derive 
from the proposed acquisition either by way of greater convenience 
o r of gains in efficiencies. In these circumstances, the Board finds 
that any public benefits to be derived from consummation of the proposed 
acquisition do not outweigh the probable adverse competitive effects. 
In enacting the 1970 Amendments to the Act, Congress specified 
§ 4(c)(8) that the Board shall consider whether the performance of 
a Particular activity by an affiliate of a holding company "can reason-
ably be expected to produce benefits to the public, such as greater 
convenience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency, that 
outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concentration of 
^sources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
°r unsound banking practices". On the record of this case, the 
evidence of adverse effects that would flow from approval of 
Applicant's proposal has not been outweighed by evidence of likely 
benefits to the public.^ 
^ T h S House Conference Report (91-1747) states at page 19: 
"In connection with the overall application of the 
public benefits test, it is important to emphasize that 
the bank holding company making application under section 
4(c)(8) must bear the burden of proof in showing that its 
carrying on of a particular nonbank activity would produce 
benefits to the public that outweigh any adverse effects. 

- 5 -
Accordingly, based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
E l e c t e d in the record, the application is denied. 
6/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
March 9, 1972, 
Pleased on March 16, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
v, . 
. 
• 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
> and Brimmer. Voting against this action: Governors Mitchell, 
and Sheehan. 

668 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF CHAIRMAN BURNS 
Approval of Crocker National Corporation's application 
to acquire Ralph C. Sutro Co. would lead to elimination of existing 
competition between the two firms in the origination of mortgage loans. 
However, the extent of this existing competition is relatively insig-
nificant. I voted to deny the application principally because approval 
would foreclose future competition between the two organizations in a 
number of mortgage banking markets in California. 
In my judgment, Crocker's size alone does not preclude it 
from making a procompetitive entry into mortgage banking through 
acquisition of a going concern. However, being a strong and progressive 
inking organization, Crocker has the capacity to become a significant 
competitor in mortgage banking without acquiring a large California 
firm such as Sutro. 
Acquisition by Crocker of either a small mortgage company in 
California, or of a large mortgage company whose present activities are 
Carried on primarily or solely outside the State, should have a more 
beneficial effect on future competition than would result from acquisi-
tion of Sutro. Approval of Crocker's proposal would reduce the potential 
significant new competition in California mortgage banking. In view 
o f the concentration of California banking in a few State-wide firms, it 
18 important to assure that smaller California organizations as well as 
°rganizations presently located in other States have the opportunity 
t o enter the market as strong competitors. Acquisition of a sizable 
c°ncern such as Sutro may well be the best way for one or the other 
type of organization to enter the market effectively. I am satisfied 
th*t the potential for such entry is a real and practical alternative 
this case. 

669 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNORS MITCHELL, DAANE, AND SHEEHAN 
Crocker National Corporation's banking subsidiary, Crocker 
National Bank ("Crocker"), is the fourth largest bank in California 
with 8.5 per cent of the State's commercial bank deposits. Nonbank-
ing subsidiaries of Applicant include a Small Business Investment 
Company, as well as companies engaged in the leasing of equipment and 
machinery, automobiles and trucks. None of Crocker's nonbanking 
assets is employed in the mortgage banking field. 
All of California's top 10 commercial banks are actively 
engaged in making real estate loans of one type or another. Crocker 
is especially active in conventional residential mortgages and in the 
nonfarm nonresidential c a t e g o r y S i x of the State's top 10 
commercial banks (excluding Crocker) service mortgages for others in 
addition to those for their own account. 
1/ According to the June 30, 1971 Report of Condition, 
Citizens National Bank held the following portfolio of 
loans: 
Ou ts tandinfl^ ___ 
lYPe of R.E.loan 
Secured by farm land 
Secured by 1-4 fam. res. 
Insured FHA 
Guaranteed by VA 
Conventionally fin. 
Crocker-
Citizens 
(millions) 
$ 
18.6 
140.6 
31.6 
505.3 
Sec. by 5 or more res. prop. 
Insured by FHA 
1.0 
Conventionally fin. 
70.2 
Nonfarm nonres. 
248.8 
a.: are 
of Bank 
Outs. 
8.7% 
6.2 
5.7 
12.4 
2.0 
11.1 
10.7 
All Calif. 
Banks 
(millions) 
the Crocker 
real estate 
Crocker 
1971 Activity 
Added 
Paid 
$ 
213.9 $ 2.5 
$ 4.9 
2,262.1 
549.9 
4,080.7 
49.7 
630.9 
2.315.1 
12.7 
3.0 
193.9 
8.9 
58.0 
14.6 
2.6 
79.3 
.1 
12.7 
54.7 
Total 
$1,016.1 
10.0 
$10,102.3 $279.0 
$168.9 

670 
- 4 -
Inasmuch as the majority of commercial banks in California 
originate mortgages for institutional investors, there is direct 
competition between commercial banks and mortgage banks in both the 
origination and servicing of mortgage loans. Up to now, Crocker 
has not been engaged in this competition. 
Residential mortgage credit in California is dominated by 
the role of savings and loan associations. Their portfolios of con-
ventional mortgages are 5 times as large as those of commercial banks. 
Crocker's share of the combined total of bank and savings and loan 
outstandings on residential mortgages of all kinds in California is 
1 
ft 
. 1 / 
J-.o per cent. 
The amount of insurance company and other investor 
holdings of California residential mortgages is unknown but they are 
the major buyers of mortgages generated by mortgage banking companies. 
2/ 
Mortgage Portfolios of Banks and 
Savings and Loan Associations in California 
< 
Dec. 31. 1971 
JU Ls LdUUXll » \U1JL.L J.J.U1 
June 30, 1971 
Savings & Loans 
Banks 
Banks & 
Crocker 
Crocker 
Savings & Loans 
S & Ls 
Per cent 
of Total 
California 
.... 
4.0 
FHA 
$ 1,215 
$2,312 
$ 3,527 
$142 
4.0 
VA 
1,536 
550 
2,086 
32 
1.5 
Conventional 
29,152 
6,396 
35.548 
575 
1.6 
Total 
$31,903 
$9,258 
$41,161 
$749 
1.8 
San Francisco SMSA 
'i.f-,'1.'. ,'i'v <• 
FHA 
$ 
183 
VA 
144 
Conventional 
5,860 
$ 6,187 
Los Angeles SMSA 
•t . 
, o.VjV'i' tr-
FHA 
$ 
744 
VA 
1,159 
Conventional 
17,162 
is u ' V ' > i i but Ch<?y a i* 
tlfe iiinjov 'mypx*? of 
r 1 g a e s % % a p r l 
1- 7 QiC 
•M'^Mr ^ bgfl -Jru; plnioi >/\i A , 

671 
- 4 -
A s of September 1971, HUD estimates that for the entire country 
mutual savings banks, life insurance companies and four other 
institutional holders had in their portfolios $128 billion of 
residential mortgages compared to $147 billion held by savings 
and loan associations and $45 billion held by commercial banks. 
Ralph C. Sutro Co. ("Sutro"), Los Angeles, California, 
i s engaged in the general mortgage banking business in California. 
However, it not only competes with commercial banks and other mortgage 
bankers headquartered in California, but with mortgage bankers from 
0utside the State as well. National mortgage banking firms, with 
offices in Los Angeles and San Francisco, include subsidiaries of 
pirst National City Corporation, Philadelphia National Bank, and 
Pittsburgh National Corporation. Lomas & Nettleton, the nation s 
largest mortgage banking firm, has four offices in Los Angeles and 
three offices in San Francisco alone. The number of firms competing 
in the mortgage markets in California, as well as the size of the 
firms, give some measure of the intense competition prevailing in 
these markets. 
Compared to Crocker's mortgage business, Sutro is a small 
operation. Overall, its originations in 1971 were about one-fourth 
those of Crocker. However, in Southern California it did twice as 
much business as Crocker. And in the VA market it outdid Crocker 
1 0 to 1 and in the FHA market nearly 2 to 1. Its originations 

672 
- 4 -
°f conventional mortgages on the other hand were 1 per cent of 
Crocker fsJ^ 
These data on the geographical and product markets of 
Crocker and Sutro attest to the minimal competition existing between 
them. Whatever adverse effects on existing competition that may 
result from the proposed acquisition can only be described as minute. 
The majority apprehension on potential competition is, in 
°ur opinion, not supported by inferences from known facts. For all 
Practical purposes, Sutro and Crocker do not compete now and have 
n°t in the past. What is the evidence they would compete in the 
future? They are and have been active in different geographical 
and product markets. Combined, their range of operation would expand 
product-wise and geographically. Combined, they would be a more 
diversified and knowledgeable lender than either is now. 
& 
Crocker & Sutro originations in 1971 
(millions of dollars) 
22£e_jjf Real Estate Loan 
Crocker 
Sutro 
22£e_jjf Real Estate Loan 
Amount 
Amount 
Farm land 
$ 2.5 
— 
Residential 
FHA 
12.7 
$21.5 
VA 
3.0 
31.9 
Conventional 
202.8 
2.1 
Nonf arm—Nonresidential 
58.0 
17.7 
Construction 
NA 
.8 
Total 
$279.0 
$74.0 
Northern California 
$246.4 
$ 4.5 
Southern California 
32.5 
69.6 

673 
- 5 -
K 
Concentration apprehensions appropriate to the giant 
California mortgage market must be geared to billions of dollars 
and not to the range of tens and hundreds of millions. 
Our fears of concentration arise from the preponderant 
role of California savings and loan associations in the California 
housing market. Those institutions would become more competitive 
and the market more stable if the role of banks and other institu-
tional investors were larger. 
We do not visualize Sutro as continuing an independent 
existence in light of the housing record. The majority conceives 
a more productive union with an out-of-State institution or a smaller 
California bank. It is possible that this could take place. It is 
also possible that wth some out-of-State or smaller California 
affiliation Sut^o's position could be eroded and it could disintegrate 
even as a minor competitive influence In the huge California market. 
The concept of de novo entry, as espoused by the majority, 
is inappropriate where, as here, Applicant would find substantial 
difficulty in becoming a significant competitive threat to the leading 
firms already engaged in mortgage banking. A de novo entry by Crocker 
will require many years, if the experience of other bank holding 
companies who entered mortgage banking in this manner is any indication, 
before even a modest market share is obtained. Acquisition of Sutro, 
°n the other hand, would be procompetitive, as it would enable Crocker 
to compete in each separate product market of mortgage banking with 
the industry leaders. Thus, entry through acquisition would enhance 

674 
- 
6 
' 
competition, not hinder it, within each of the local mortgage 
markets in the State. 
In our view, the clear public benefits to be derived from 
this particular acquisition more than outweigh the conjectural, and 
in our judgment unrealistic, possibility of greater public benefits 
from a different affiliation with an unknown and uncertain partner. 
Therefore, applying the statutory standards of § 4(c)(8) to the 
facts of record, we would approve the application. 
• \ 
: • -
March 9, 1972 
i t. a: 
I UL 

immediate release 
(corrected copy) 
Item No. 6 
3/9/72 
March 9, 1972 
'Hie Board of Governors today amended the Voluntary Foreign 
^edit Restraint (VFCR) Guidelines to prevent subsidiary banks in a 
Elding company from consolidating a newly acquired lending ceiling with 
filings of other banks in the same holding company. 
Consolidation of 
filings, arcons holding company members, had been permissible if only one 
cf- the banks in question had a ceiling on November 11, 1971, when the 
Sidelines were last revised. 
The modification is intended to safeguard the express intention 
o f the Board to make ceilings available to banks that wanted to enter, 
actively engage in, the foreign lending field. 
If ceilings designed 
t o allow banks directly to develop a foreign lending business become 
Mailable to banks already established in that business, their purpose 
v°uld be lost, and their use could lead to an unintended expansion of 
e£ate foreign lending by U.S. banks. 
Section II~D~3-d of the Guidelines announced November 11, 1971, 
henceforth read as follows: 
d. 
CONSOLIDATION OF CEILINGS OF BANK SUBSIDIARIES OF 
HOLDING COMPANIES. A bank subsidiary (including a bank, Edge 
Act Corporation, or Agreement Corporation) of a bank holding 
company way elect to consolidate its ceiling with that of one 
or more of the holding company's other bank subsidiaries only 
if each bank subsidiary involved in the contemplated consoli-
dation had a ceiling under the previous Guidelines. 
Such 
election should be made known in advance to the respective 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
Ceilings adopted under the present 
Guidelines should not be consolidated. 
Ceilings that were 
consolidated before March 9, 1972 in conformity with the 
Guidelines may remain consolidated. 
The amendment becomes effective today. 
-0-

B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o. "f" 
OF THE 
3/9/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1972 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors took action yesterday to 
disapprove the pending reduction in your Bank's discount rate 
from 4-1/2 per cent to 4 per cent which your Board of Directors 
voted to approve on March 9, 1972. 
In reaching its decision 
the Board reviewed a number of considerations and concluded 
that a reduction would not be appropriate at this time, especially 
in light of the current weak position of the dollar in foreign 
exchange markets. The Board also took note of recent increases 
in short-term interest rates. 
Members of the Board wish to express their appreciation 
for the views of your Bank's directors and their judgment regarding 
the desirability of a change in the discount rate. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

''•fj-r 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
677 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1972 
Mr. George H. Clay, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors took action yesterday to 
disapprove the pending reduction in your Bank's discount 
rate from 4-1/2 per cent to 4 per cent which your Board 
of Directors voted to approve on March 2, 1972<, In reaching 
its decision the Board reviewed a number of considerations 
and concluded that a reduction would not be appropriate at 
this time, especially in light of the current weak position 
of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. The Board also 
took note of recent increases in short-term interest rates. 
Members of the Board wish to express their 
appreciation for the views of your Bank's directors and 
their judgment regarding the desirability of a change in 
the discount rate. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
