MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 26, 1972 

1669 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 26, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Conside ration was given to current stresses in foreign exchange 
markets that might endanger the Smithsonian Agreement for international 
currency alignments. Comments were made on the tenor of views among 
foreign central bankers and the question whether it might be advisable 
to repay the present sterling debt under reciprocal currency arrangements 
in order to provide marginal support for sterling. It was contemplated 
that any support provided would be directed toward the bands of currency 
fluctuations permitted under the Smithsonian Agreement rather than the 
narrower bands adopted by Common Market countries. It was reported that 
the Treasury had authorized the purchase of a moderate amount of sterling 
for the Exchange Stabilization Fund. 
Questions were raised regarding the authority of the Special 
Manager of the System Open Market Account to conduct operations of a support 
nature without further instruction from the Federal Open Market Committee 
or its Foreign Exchange Subcommittee. A consensus developed that whatever 
measures were undertaken should be on a small scale, carrying out the 

1670 
6/26/72 
-2-
operations authorized by the Treasury for the Exchange Stabilization 
Fund, with the addition of a small amount of Federal Reserve funds if 
necessary. 
The following members of the staff joined the meeting at 
this point. 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Other officers and staff of the research divisions 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress. 
Those who had attended the 
review then withdrew from the room 
meeting specifically for the economic 
and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

1671 
6/26/72 
-3-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of United Bank Corporation of New York, Albany, New York, to 
acquire shares of 385 Broadway National Bank, Newburgh, New York, the 
successor by merger to Highland National Bank of Newburgh, and authorized 
issuance of an order in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated June 22, 1972, the Board unanimously approved a letter 
to counsel for Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, 
regarding the sale of holding company notes through affiliated member 
banks. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Secretary 
of the Board dated June 22, 1972, the Board unanimously approved the 
appointment of Governor Bucher to the Performance Review Committees for 
the Retirement and Thrift Plans. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Reserve Bank employee compensation. The Conference of Presidents 
had recently endorsed and submitted for Board approval a document entitled 
Guidelines for Employee Compensation Programs at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The document was a revision of one issued in 1947 and was intended to 
describe parameters within which individual Banks could administer their 

m?2 
6/26/72 
-4-
nonofficer employee compensation programs. The guidelines included 
a statement that, within the salary structures approved by the Board, 
salary adjustments could be granted to employees either across the 
board or on an individual basis. 
In a memorandum dated June 16, 1972, 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans recom-
mended that the Board accept the guidelines but urge the Conference of 
Presidents to explore the longer term system-performance implications 
that might derive from across-the-board salary adjustments. Attached to 
the memorandum was a draft letter suggesting that across-the-board salary 
adjustments should be minimized and that merit increases based upon 
performance should be a primary objective of salary administration programs 
within the System. 
At today's meeting several questions were raised regarding the 
guidelines. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane questioned whether across-the-
board salary increases should be contingent upon Board approval. 
Governor 
Brimmer suggested that a paragraph be added to clarify the Board's author-
ity in Reserve Bank salary matters. He also suggested that the guidelines 
be revised to require Banks to review at regular intervals sensitive 
positions such as those assigned to currency destruction. 
He also raised 
questions about the recommended salary spreads within the salary grades, 
especially at the lower grades. He suggested maximums of 50 per cent 
above the minimums in all grades. 

1673 
6/26/72 
-5-
Action was thereupon deferred, with the understanding that 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans would 
review the guidelines in light of today's discussion. 
American Fletcher Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated June 9, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
the application of American Fletcher Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
to acquire Local Finance Corporation, Marion, Indiana. The Banking 
Markets Section concurred in the recommendation, while the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago recommended denial on grounds that the acquisition would 
foreclose a primary source of future competition. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer said he was inclined to 
agree with the Reserve Bank's viewpoint. Governor Robertson said he 
could not see that the acquisition would bring about an increase in 
competition such as would come about if American Fletcher established a 
de novo finance company. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that an order reflecting that 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration and that a 
dissenting statement would also be prepared. 
Seilon, Inc. In a memorandum dated June 15, 1972, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of an application of 
Seilon, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, to acquire additional shares of First Bancor-
poration, Reno, Nevada, a one-bank holding company. The Banking Markets 
Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco concurred in the 
recommendation. 

1674 
6/26/72 
-6-
After discussion the application was unanimously denied. 
It 
was understood that documents to implement this decision would be 
drafted to assist the Board in determining whether or not applicant 
should be given an opportunity to withdraw the application. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

_ 1675 
Item No. 1 
6/26/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED BANK CORPORATION OF NEW YORK 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Bank Corporation of New York, Albany, New York, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by 
merger to Highland National Bank of Newburgh, Newburgh, New York 
("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no 
significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition 
of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acqui-
sition of shares of the successor organization is treated herein 
as the proposed acquisition of shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
a
nd all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the ninth largest of eighteen multi-bank holding 
companies and fifteenth largest banking organization in New York, controls 
tv
>o subsidiary banks—State Bank of Albany, Albany ($686 million of deposits) 
and Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo ($460 million of deposits) 
Their aggregate deposits of approximately $1.1 billion represent 1.2 per cent 

1678 
-2-
of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1972,) 
Applicant's 
two subsidiary banks operate 66 offices in New York Banking Districts 
Four and Nine. Acquisition of Bank ($55.4 million of deposits) would 
result in Applicant's initial entry into the Third Banking District, 
where Bank is located. Applicant's share of commercial bank deposits 
in the State would not increase significantly and its rank in the 
State would be unchanged. 
Bank, the sixth largest of twenty-nine banks operating 
1/ 
in the Mid-Hudson banking market, 
operates three offices located 
in and adjacent to Newburgh, New York, and controls 6.5 per cent 
of total deposits of commercial banks in the market. 
Applicant's subsidiary bank nearest to Bank is located 
in Germantown, New York, approximately 55 miles north of Bank. 
It appears that there is no significant competition between Bank 
and either of Applicant's subsidiary banks. Moreover, the pros-
pect for such competition developing in the future appears unlikely 
in the light of the facts presented, notably the distances separat-
ing Bank from Applicant's subsidiaries, the number of banks located 
in the intervening areas and the restrictive provisions of New 
York State banking laws relating to branch banking and home office 
1/ 
Comprised of Dutchess, Putnam, and Ulster Counties, plus the 
Newburgh area of Orange County. 

Protection. Although Applicant could enter the Third Banking District 
novo, this prospect appears unlikely in part because of the limita-
tions on branching by newly chartered banks. 
It appears that consummation of Applicant's proposal will 
n
°t foreclose entry by other banking organizations into the relevant 
Market since a number of other independent banks, in addition to Bank, 
located in that market. Affiliation with Applicant may enable 
Sank to compete more aggressively with the larger banks in the market 
(three of which are affiliated with bank holding company organiza-
tions) and may encourage the opening of new branches in the Third 
district, which would have a procompetitive effect. In view of con-
tinued Statewide expansion by large New York City-based bank holding 
c
°nipanies, expansion by moderate-sized upstate banking organizations 
S u
ch as Applicant should reduce the likelihood of the State's bank-
ing a ssets being dominated by a few banking organizations. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would.not have an 
Averse effect on competition in any relevant area. The financial 
managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, its subsid-
*
a r
ies, and Bank appear satisfactory. It appears that the banking 
n
^eds of the relevant communities are being adequately served 
ky existing banking organizations. However, Applicant proposes, 
a,t
»ong other services, to assist Bank in offering advisory and trust 

-4-
1678 
services and expanded lending services through participation loans 
with Applicant's present subsidiaries. Thus, considerations relat-
ing to the convenience and needs of the communities involved are 
consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the pro-
posed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective June 26, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[s
EAL] 
I)
 
V
°ting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
a n e
> Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

1 6 7 9 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 2 
OF THE: 
6/26/72 
S' 
F E D E R A L RESERVE 
S Y S T E M 
>!r,V. •' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20Sbl 
June 26, 1972 
,... , 
. 
/-oniiEss OR nr. AU n c f<rcrsi-ONOENCE 
• >.v'...! i . . • . 
•Vi'v , V 
, 
TO THE 9 CARD 
•^.Kl.^'V 
J o i i n W - R i e i.y, Es q, 
11 u n t o n , V< i 11 i ara s , G a y & G1 b s o ii 
7GO East Main Sr.roet 
Richmond, Virginia 
232.12 
Dear Mr. Riely: 
In response to your request, the Board has reconsidered 
the position stated in its letter of November 
1970 to your 
client. Virginia Commonwealth Bank shares, Inc. 
("Bankshares") that 
the participation by toe subsidiary hanks of Banksh&res, through 
the use of the premises and employees of those banks, in the sole 
of subordinated capital notes of Brinks hares to the public., rosy 
constitute a violation of section 21 of the Banking Act of 1933 
(3 2 U.H.G. 378), That section makes it unlawful for "any person. 
• , .engaged in the business of issuing, underwriting, selling, 
or distributing, at wholesale or retail. . .bonds, debentures, 
notes, or ether securities, to engage at the same time to any 
exLnnt whatever in the business of receiving deposits subject 
to check. . . .
11 
The Board, has reaffirmed its conclusion that the use 
or the premises and employees of: the subsidiary banks in the 
public sale of securities of Bankshares may violate section 21. 
In its /••.•.consideration of this matter, the Board, pursuant to 
your request .. considered the opinion of the U. S. Supreme Court 
in Investment Company Institute v . Cam£, 401 U.S. 617 (1971). 
'Ine Court's opinion was, of course, directed to a different 
factual sit.nation than the one you present and the Board does 
not believe that it supports your conclusion that the Board's 
previous position was in error. Further, the Board cannot 
accept year contention that,, for purposes of section 21, there 
are no substantial differences between securities issued by a 
bank and lnose issued by its parent holding company. In this 
connection the Board noted the growing trend among bank holding 

John VJ . R i e l y E s q . 
-2-
companies to derive a substantial portion of their income irom 
nonbank businesses. 
Finally, the Board declined to accept your 
contention that the term "business" as used in section 21 neces-
sarily implies a certain continuity or permanency* 
The Board 
deunri that Congress, in enacting section. 21, intended to permit 
sporadic narticination bv banks in the underwriting or distribu-
tion of securities issued by commercial or industrial corpora-
tions; this would necessarily be permitted by your suggested 
construction of the term "business". 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
