Minutes for J u lY 31> 
1 9 6 7 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 31, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Porter, Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Thompson, Chief, Consumer Credit and Finances 
Section, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Chief, Special Studies and Operations 
Section, Division of International Finance 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant to the Director, 
Division of Examinations 
Investment in bank premises (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
Was given to a letter to Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, Summit, 
U i \ 
New Jersey, approving an investment in bank premises. A copy of the 
let ter is attached as Item No. 1. 

7/31/67 
-2-
Open Market Committee policy record. Ori July 11, 1967, the 
Board approved for inclusion in its Annual Report for 1967 policy 
« 
record entries for the meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee 
on May 2 and 23, 1967, with the understanding that they would be 
released to the press at approximate times indicated in August, pur-
suant to the procedure agreed upon in June. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated July 28, 
1967, from Messrs. Sherman and Holland attaching a draft of press 
release to cover the May 2 policy record entry, which was now submit-
ted for final review prior to publication. No substantive comments 
had been received from Reserve Bank Presidents concerning the text of 
the entry as previously approved by the Board. It was proposed to 
release the entry to the press today, with subsequent publication in 
the August Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
After discussion, the issuance of the press release was 
authorized. 
Report on Consumer Credit Protection Act (Item No. 2). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated July 28, 1967, from Mr. Cardon 
regarding the response to be made to a request by Chairman Patman of 
the House Committee on Banking and Currency for the Board's views on 
H. R. 11601, the "Consumer Credit Protection Act." Hearings on the 
bill were scheduled to begin on August 7, with Governor Robertson to 
testify on that day. 

3 0 8 3 
7/31/67 
-3-
The bill included, in addition to stricter truth-in-lending 
provisions than contained in the Senate-passed S. 5 (on a version of 
which Governor Robertson had testified on May 10, 1967), provisions 
that would (1) regulate advertising of credit terms in interstate 
commerce, (2) limit finance charges to 18 per cent per annum, (3) 
direct the Board to regulate credit on commodity futures contracts, 
(4) grant standby authority to the Board to control consumer credit 
when the President determines that such control was needed in an emer-
gency, (5) prohibit creditors from accepting confessions of judgment 
in connection with extensions of consumer credit, (6) prohibit garnish-
ment of wages, and (7) create a Commission on Consumer Finance. The 
tenor of comments in Mr. Cardon's memorandum relating to these provi-
sions was reflected in an attached draft of letter to Chairman Patman. 
Also attached to the memorandum were more extended staff discussions 
of several of the bill's provisions. These latter papers were not 
intended to be transmitted to the Committee; they were furnished for 
the Board's information and to provide background for Governor 
Robe rtson's forthcoming testimony. 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with cer-
tain changes suggested by Governor Mitchell, the letter to Chairman 
batman was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Bills regarding data processing by banks (Item No. 3). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated July 27, 1967, from the Legal 

3084 
7/31/67 
-4-
Division regarding bills to limit data processing services and personal 
property leasing by banks. The several bills had been introduced by 
Congressman Multer, and the Board's views had been requested in a 
letter of June 30, 1967, from Chairman Patman of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee. 
Two of the bills, H. R. 924 and H. R. 948, were intended to 
restrict banks in the use of their data processing and other automated 
equipment in performing services for others. The Board had reported 
unfavorably on an earlier bill that was identical to H. R. 924. The 
other Federal bank supervisory agencies also had opposed similar pre-
decessor bills. Other background information set forth in the memoran-
dum related to outstanding interpretations by the Comptroller of the 
Currency regarding data processing and other services by national banks 
and pending litigation arising from one such interpretation. 
Although 
the Board had not issued similar interpretations, the memorandum 
referred to various questions the Board had considered that fell within 
the general area covered by the proposed legislation. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft of reply to Chairman Patman that would state 
that the Board would not favor enactment of H. R. 924, and that it 
questioned the need for H. R. 948 even if certain amendments were made. 
During discussion Governor Mitchell suggested language for the 
^tter that would place greater emphasis on the advantages banks and 
their customers derive from the ability of banks to offer data process-
ing s ervices. Governor Maisel suggested that it be brought out that 

t « /> > 0 
7/31/67 
.5. 
such services were in the interest of efficiency and economy. 
Governor 
Robertson indicated that he had several language suggestions, and there 
was agreement with a proposal that Governor Mitchell work with the -
staff to revise the letter along the lines that" had been discussed. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the sending to Chairman' 
Patman of a letter in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Personal property leasing by banks (Item No. 4). The distrib-
uted memorandum from the Legal Division dated July 27, 1967, referred 
to in the preceding entry, also dealt with Chairman Patman's request 
for the Board's views on H. R. 947, "To limit personal property leas-
ing by banks.11 
Two identical bills had been introduced in earlier sessions of 
Congress. The Board's report in 1964 on one of them had been essentially 
unfavorable. 
The Comptroller of the Currency, who had taken the posi-
tion that property leasing was permissible for national banks and was 
not subject to statutory lending limits, strongly opposed the earlier 
bills. The Board had issued no such ruling with respect to State mem-
ber banks, but had taken the position that their privileges with respect 
to equipment leasing depended upon State law. The Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation had said it did not favor enactment of the earlier 
bills and recommended that any question of the authority of banks to 
engage 
in direct leasing be removed by express authorization, with the 
statutory lending limit for banks made applicable to the aggregate of 

( $ 0 6 6 
7/31/67 
-6-
borrowings and leasing. The Corporation had added that if experience 
should disclose unsafe or unsound aspects of personal property leasing 
by banks, it would then support corrective legislation. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to Chairman 
Patman that would draw a distinction between two kinds of leasing. In 
one, which was considered unobjectionable and often was advantageous 
to the bank or its customers, a bank extended credit by purchasing 
personal property and leasing it to a customer for the full purchase 
price instead of lending the customer the funds to purchase the prop-
erty and then receiving a chattel mortgage. 
In the other type of 
leasing, the lease was not for the full purchase price of the property, 
the term of lease was relatively short, and at its expiration the prop-
erty would either be sold or leased again (perhaps to a different 
customer). 
The draft letter would express the view that the second 
type of leasing was not a suitable activity for banks and should be 
dis couraged or prohibited. 
The letter would further state that if, as the Board inferred, 
H. R. 947 was intended to prevent banks from engaging in leasing activ-
ities of the second type, the Board believed such an objective to be 
sound. However, if the bill would also have the effect of prohibiting 
the first kind of leasing that had been described, the bill should be 
changed to make it clear that banks would not be prevented from using 
leasing arrangements as a form of security for legitimate extensions 
o f credit. 

a O R 7 
7/31/67 
-7-
Governor Maisel expressed the view that the case made in the 
draft letter for the kind of leasing that was considered sound relied 
too heavily on the security aspect. He believed recognition should be 
given also to its other advantages in terms of tax treatment, down pay-
ments, interest rates, ability to repossess, and related factors. 
These, it seemed to him, were all elements that led banks and customers 
to choose this type of financing. As he read the draft, it gave the 
impression that leasing should be used only when it improved security, 
whereas he believed there was a much broader concept that should be 
recognized--namely, that leasing should be allowed whenever it provided 
a more efficient way of financing. 
There followed an extended discussion regarding changes that 
might be made in the letter to meet Governor Maisel's point, as well 
a s suggestions by other members of the Board. 
Governor Robertson then called attention to a passage stating 
that leasing transactions being, in essence, extensions of credit, 
"ought to be regarded, in the Board's judgment, as subject to the same 
usual statutory loan limitations. Should this not be the case, the 
situation would call for legislative correction." Inasmuch as the 
Comptroller of the Currency had ruled that leasing arrangements by 
national banks were not subject to the statutory limits on the amount 
loans to one borrower, the situation as it presently stood was, in 
Governor Robertson's view, one that called for legislative correction. 

3068 
7/31/67 
-8-
Governor Brimmer commented that, if such language was to be 
used, it would seem well to apprise the Comptroller before the Board's 
letter was sent. There was agreement with this suggestion. 
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was 
given to the sending of a letter to Chairman Patman in the form 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Inquiry regarding paper on steel imports (Item No. 5). Mr. 
Charles M. Beeghly, Chairman of Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation 
and a director of the Pittsburgh Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Cleveland, had written to Chairman Martin on July 21, 1967, regard-
ing a paper on "The Problem of Steel Imports" prepared by Kathryn 
Morisse of the Board's staff. Mr. Beeghly took exception to certain 
conclusions expressed in the paper, inquired whether such studies were 
originated by staff members working independently or directed by some 
i 
Board authority, and suggested that staff members might avail themselves 
of the special knowledge of Federal Reserve directors who were execu-
tives in industries about which papers were to be written. A draft 
of reply over Chairman Martin's signature had been distributed. 
Governor Brimmer referred to a sentence in the draft reply 
expressing agreement "that the treatment of the problem should be a 
balanced one and regret that you did not find the discussion of foreign 
Pricing practices adequate." He raised the question whether the sen-
tence might not be revised so as to express a view that Miss Morisse's 
analysis met the standards of a balanced presentation. 

w if; 9 
7/31/67 
-9-
In discussion of this point members of the Board noted that 
the main thrust of the draft reply was toward defending the right of 
staff members to pursue their research in an atmosphere of intellectual 
freedom. Therefore, they doubted the advisability of undertaking to 
debate the adequacy of individual papers and indicated that they would 
be reluctant to express a judgment as to the adequacy of the analysis 
in this particular instance. Mr. Solomon commented to the same general 
effect on behalf of the Division of International Finance. 
It was then 
suggested that the sentence to which reference had been made be omitted, 
and Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with that solution. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the sending of a 
letter to Mr. Beeghly in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Mr. Molony then commented more generally on problems sometimes 
encountered by virtue of the fact that staff papers, even though they 
purported to represent the views of the author rather than of the Board, 
nevertheless carried a certain flavor of official authority. He pointed 
out that problems could arise, for example, if staff members, in sub-
mitting articles for outside publication, used the Board's stationery 
and identified their position on the Board's staff. 
Mr. Koch observed that proposed papers were reviewed by senior 
research staff for soundness of economic analysis before being submitted 
for outside publication. While some of them might be regarded as mar-
Sinai, he felt that articles published by members of the Board's staff 
technical journals had been, generally speaking, of superior quality 

3 0 7 O 
7/31/67 
-10-
and that the review procedures followed went about as far in the direc-
tion of censorship as would be consistent with the maintenance of a 
professional staff of high caliber. 
Chairman Martin referred to the problem as a continuing one 
related to quality control. He agreed that censorship was to be avoided 
but called attention to the status of the Federal Reserve System as 
imposing a special responsibility for seeking to maintain the quality 
of output. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Salary increase 
P. D. Maddox, General Mechanic-Operating Engineer, Division of 
Administrative Services, from $6,594 to $7,114 per annum, effective 
July 31, 1967. 
Maternity leave 
Margaret Stewart, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
beginning the close of business August 17, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Betty J. Abbott, Senior Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, 
effective the close of business July 28, 1967. 
Leo R. Michaels, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, effec-
tive the close of business August 4, 1967. 
Sonia Moreno, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statis-
tics. effective the close of business August 14, 1967. 

7/31/67 
-11-
uavi 
On July 31, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No 
Letter to the Federal Rese rve Bank of Dallas 
approving the designation of William R. Miller 
as special assistant examiner. 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
approving the appointment of Philip A. Shaver 
as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative for 
the sole purpose- of maintaining custody of 
Federal Reserve notes stored at cash agent 
banks. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Davenport Bank and Trust Company, 
Davenport, Iowa, approving the establish-
ment of a branch at 122-24 West Third Street. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to The Lake State Bank, Richland, 
Indiana, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Santa Claus. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, approving the establishment of 
a branch at 415 West 5th Street, Los Angeles 
10 

'•f^LRESfr-
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
MY72 
Item No. 1 
7/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E B P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, 
Summit, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System approves an investment in bank 
premises of $6,100 by Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, 
Summit, New Jersey, to provide space for expansion of 
its computer operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
a F T H E 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
3 0 7 8 
Item No. 2 
7/31/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 31, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your request for the Board's 
comments on H.R. 11601, the "Consumer Credit Protection Act." 
Most of title I of the bill is designed to provide 
consumers with meaningful information concerning the costs and 
terms of credit. 
The Board believes that legislation of this 
kind is needed, and that important social and economic benefits 
may be expected to flow from its enactment. 
With one exception, 
however, we believe that the disclosure provisions of S. 5 are 
preferable to those of H.R. 11601. 
The Board believes that the provisions of H.R. 11601 as 
to open end credit plans are preferable to those in S. 5 as passed 
by the Senate. 
The need for a common standard to facilitate 
comparison shopping for credit, as well as the desirability of 
treating all creditors alike, argue against the Senate bill's 
provisions exempting certain forms of open end credit from the 
general rule requiring disclosure of equivalent annual rates. 
In addition to disclosure provisions similar to S. 5, 
H.R. 11601 provides for regulation of credit advertising affecting 
interstate commerce, ceilings on finance charges, controls on com-
modity futures trading, and prohibitions against particular methods 
of debt collection. 
Presumably because of the broad scope of these 
provisions, section 209 of the bill incorporates authority for 
their enforcement through administrative proceedings leading to 
cease and desist orders. 
The Board has urged that its responsibility 
as to legislation requiring disclosure of credit terms be limited to 
prescribing implementing regulations, and that responsibility for 
enforcement and investigation of complaints be lodged in another 
agency with a trained investigative staff. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
The Senate concurred in our recommendation as to the 
Board's role in implementing S. 5. As to enforcement, it was 
decided not to establish "investigative or enforcement machinery 
at the Federal level, largely on the assumption that the civil 
penalty section will secure substantial compliance with the Act 
(S. Report 392, p. 9)." We hope that civil sanctions, supplemented, 
as they are, by criminal sanctions, will prove to be adequate to 
assure compliance with disclosure requirements. 
If experience 
under the legislation should indicate that compliance is not being 
achieved, the Board would so indicate in the annual reports 
provided for in the bill. If, however, the Congress now determines 
that adequate protection for consumers warrants imposition of the 
broader controls embodied in H.R. 11601 in addition to the disclo-
sure requirements of S. 5, responsibility for their administration 
and enforcement should be vested elsewhere than in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
The question of whether certain of the controls added 
to S. 5 by H.R. 11601 are desirable is now under study by the 
Government agencies directly concerned. We understand that the 
Department of Agriculture is now reconsidering its earlier request 
for standby authority to prescribe margin requirements for trading 
in the commodity futures markets, pending analysis of additional 
information which it has recently received. And the President has 
directed the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Labor and the Director of the Office of Economic Opportunity, 
to make a comprehensive study of the problems of wage garnishment. 
The Board believes that decisions on these questions should be 
deferred until the results of these studies are available. 
A Federal limitation on finance charges, as provided in 
H.R. 11601, could operate to deny credit to those who need it 
under certain circumstances, and to raise credit costs in other 
instances. A single, national statutory ceiling cannot adequately 
reflect the varying elements--such as risk, costs, and size of 
transaction—that enter into the determination of finance charges 
for various kinds of credit arrangements. 
In some small trans-
actions, finance charges that are low in dollar amount but exceed 
18 per cent when converted to an annual percentage rate may be 
justified to compensate the creditor for relatively high out-of-
pocket handling costs. Under those circumstances, an 18 per cent 
ceiling could cut off extensions of credit. For other kinds of 
credit needs that can be met at lower rates, an 18 per cent ceiling 
might tend to become a floor as well as a ceiling, resulting in 
higher costs to the borrower. We agree with the principle expressed 
in the Senate Banking and Currency Committee's report on S. 5, that 
"full disclosure of credit charges (should) be made so that the 
consumer can decide for himself whether the charge is reasonable 
(S. Report 392, p. 1)." 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
Another provision of H.R. 11601 would grant to the 
Board authority to impose broad controls over the use of consumer 
credit upon a determination by the President that a national 
emergency exists which necessitates such action. The Board 
believes that standby authority of this kind could prove useful 
under certain conditions, although it clearly is no£ needed at 
present. We do not regard this authority, however, as a method 
of protecting consumers. Rather, it is a means of curbing consumer 
demands at times of unusual stress when the economy could not 
satisfy those demands and at the same time meet higher-priority 
needs such as the defense of the nation. As was demonstrated 
only last year, authority for consumer credit controls is also 
a controversial matter. We hope, therefore, that your Committee 
will act favorably on disclosure legislation without jeopardizing 
its enactment by inclusion of this additional authority. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Q F T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No 
7/31/67 
August 2, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of June 30, 1967, for 
reports from the Board on the related bills H.R. 924 ("To prohibit 
bank,s from performing certain nonbanking services, and for other 
purposes") and H.R.- 948 ("To prohibit banks from performing 
professional accounting services"). 
H.R. 924 would prohibit any Federally insured bank from 
performing "any clerical, administrative, bookkeeping, statistical, 
accounting, or other similar services for its depositors, borrowers, 
or other customers, except to the extent that such services are a 
necessary incident to the proper discharge of lawful functions of 
such bank as a depository, lender, trustee, or agent". The 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Board, and the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation would be required to administer the bill as 
to national banks, State member banks, and other insured banks, 
respectively, and would be authorized to make such rules and regu-
lations as may be necessary to carry out its purposes. 
The Board would not favor enactment of H.R. 924. The 
same view was expressed by the Board in its report of March 25, 
1964, to your Committee^ Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and 
Insurance on the earlier identical bill H.R. 9548. 
In recent years, commercial banks have had to turn to 
electronic data processing and other automated equipment more and 
more in order adequately to keep pace with the tremendous growth 
that has occurred in the volume of transactions in the accounts 
of their customers. In doing so they often have been able, as a 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
by-product of the data processing essential to consummating check-payment 
or other banking transactions, to perform economically and efficiently 
clerical, statistical, and bookkeeping services for their customers. 
Productivity gains for the economy from such automated data processing 
applications should not be prevented, nor should the savings in cost and 
additional convenience to banks1 customers be prohibited. This means 
that normal banking services should not be regarded as excluding such 
matters as bookkeeping, clerical, and statistical services for a bank's 
customers so long as there is a specific tie-in between the particular 
service and a banking transaction, as where the data required for the 
completion of banking transactions generates computational capacity that 
can economically be used for antecedent or subsequent data handling. 
Adherence voluntarily by banks to this principle would adequately keep 
banks in the banking business. The Board thinks that the adoption of 
the prohibition in H.R. 924 would circumscribe banks1 operations in a 
manner not consistent with the public interest. 
H.R. 948 would prohibit any Federally insured bank and 
savings and loan association from performing "any professional account-
ing services' for its depositors, borrowers, or other customers, except 
to the extent that such services are a necessary incident to the proper 
discharge of lawful functions of such bank or association as a trustee 
or agent". The bill defines "professional accounting services" to 
include: 
"(1) the design, installation, and supervision of internal 
systems of recordkeeping in terms of money or internal controls of 
financial data; (2) the use of discretion in recording business trans-
actions of a financial nature; (3) the preparation of financial state-
ments from books of account; (4) the preparation of income tax returns, 
whether Federal, State, or local; or (5) the conduct of audits and the 
preparation of reports based on audits." As in the case of H.R. 924, 
responsibility for administering and authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out the purposes of H.R. 948 would be placed in the Comptroller 
of the Currency, the Board, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
respectively, for the three classes of insured banks. The Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board would be assigned these functions for insured savings 
and loan associations. 
H.R. 948, like H.R. 924, reflects the concern that has been 
expressed from time to time regarding the use by banks of their modern 
data processing and other automated equipment for nonbank customers. 
The intent of H.R. 948 seems to be to prohibit the performance of 
specific professional accounting services by banks, rather than such 
services as clerical, statistical, and bookkeeping functions. H.R. 948, 
therefore, would seem to be narrower in its intended application than 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
H.R. 924. Nevertheless, items (1), (2), and (3) in the definition in 
the bill of "professional accounting services" are very broad and 
susceptible of an interpretation that would extend the coverage of the 
bill beyond the limited area apparently intended to be covered. The 
Board, therefore, would urge that the definition be clarified by an 
amendment restricting the prohibited activities to purely professional 
auditing and accounting services and excluding normal banking services 
performed by banks for their customers, such as clerical, statistical, 
and bookkeeping services. 
But even if H.R. 948 were so amended, the Board would question 
the need for the bill. This is because the services typically performed 
by banks either for other banks or customers other than banks cannot be 
viewed realistically as "professional accounting services". Most, if 
not all, such work now performed by banks is of the kind that could have 
been performed by their customers1 own bookkeepers or clerical employees 
and, therefore, does not involve the practice of accountancy, but rather 
the performance of repetitive clerical-type functions which are especially 
susceptible to automation. 
H.R. 948 would apply to savings and loan associations as well 
as to banks, while H.R. 924 would apply only to banks. The failure to 
make these two related bills uniform in application in this respect would 
seem to be an oversight in drafting the measures. 
In connection with these two bills, reference should be made 
to the so-called Bank Service Corporation Act (Public Law 87-865; 12 U.S.C. 
1861-1865), which permits banks to join in the ownership of data process-
ing organizations. Section 4 of that Act forbids such a cooperative 
service corporation to "engage in any activity other than the performance 
of bank services for banks". If a single bank owning data processing 
equipment may use its excess capacity for other than its own individual 
needs, these cooperative service corporations should likewise have that 
authority. To the extent that section 4 might be susceptible of an 
interpretation denying such authority, the section should be either 
clarified to make the existence of such authority unmistakably clear or 
repealed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 4 
7/31/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 18, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request of June 30, 1967, for a 
report from the Board on the bill H.R. 947, "To limit personal 
property leasing by banks". 
H.R. 947 would prohibit any Federally insured bank from 
being "the lessor of any personal property under any circumstances 
or by any means as a result of which such bank--(l) performs or is 
compensated for any services other than the lending of money or 
advancement of credit with respect to such property, or (2) acquires 
or may acquire any interest in such property other than as security 
for the repayment to such bank of money or credit advanced by it 
together with interest and other charges for exclusively financial 
services, or may realize from such property in the event of default 
more than such repayment and charges." 
The Comptroller of the Currency, the Board, and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation would be required to administer the bill 
and authorized to make such rules and regulations as may be necessary 
to carry out the purposes thereof as to national banks, State member 
banks, and other insured banks, as the case may be. 
As indicated in the Board's report of March 26, 1964, to 
your Committee's Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance on 
H.R. 9822 (virtually identical with H.R. 947), the leasing of per-
sonal property by banks may be divided, broadly speaking, into two 
quite different kinds of transactions. 
As explained below, one kind 
is unobjectionable and, in fact, is often advantageous to banks and 
their customers. 
The Board believes that the other type of leasing 
is not a suitable activity for banks. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
r U K S n 
Banks, of course, frequently make loans on the security of 
personal property, the bank being protected either by a physical 
pledge of the property or by perfection of a security interest therein, 
usually in the form of a recorded security agreement such as a chattel 
mortgage. 
Sometimes, however, to gain certain benefits for themselves 
and/or their customers, banks extend credit by purchasing personal 
property and leasing it to a customer for an amount equal to the pur-
chase price plus interest, payable in installments over a specified 
period. 
This procedure may be clarified by an illustration. 
A 
bank's customer wishes to acquire 10 trucks costing $10,000 each. 
The bank could lend the customer the needed $100,000 and the custo-
mer could purchase the trucks and give the bank a security interest 
therein to protect it in the event of default. 
In some cases, 
however, one or both of the parties may consider it more advantageous 
for the bank to purchase the trucks and lease them to the customer, 
title being retained by the bank while the trucks are used by the 
customer. 
Under both arrangements, all other terms may be substan-
tially identical (although not necessarily so). For example, the 
customer might agree to repay the bank $25,000 semiannually, 
together with interest at 5 per cent per annum on the outstanding 
balance. 
In each case, at the end of 2 years the bank would have 
been repaid its $100,000 advance with interest at the agreed rate. 
However, in the case where the bank has taken a security interest, 
the lien would be released after full repayment; whereas in the case 
of the lease arrangement, after having received full payment the bank 
ordinarily would retain ownership of the property. 
The Board believes that the use of lease arrangements of 
this kind should continue to be permissible. 
Such arrangements 
may furnish to the borrower the form of credit best suited to its 
needs and preference, and also provide the bank with strong pro-
tection for its extension of credit, as well as other advantages. 
To prohibit banks from leasing property in this way would need-
lessly deprive them of a useful security device and other benefits 
and deprive their customers of benefits they derive from banks' 
ability to offer such advantageous alternative arrangements. 
Since such transactions are, in essence, extensions of credit, they 
ought to be regarded, in the Board's judgment, as subject to the 
statutory limitations on loans. To the extent that such limitations 
are now held to be inapplicable to leasing arrangements, the situa-
tion calls for clarification and correction. 
The other kind of leasing, however, is quite different in 
purpose and effect and in its status with respect to sound banking 
principles. 
It may be best to illustrate this in a comparable 
situation. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
In the case described above, the bank's customer might wish 
to use the 10 trucks only until the completion of a specific construc 
tion job, expected to take six months. In such a case, he might 
request the bank to purchase the trucks (an expenditure of $100,000) 
and to lease them to him at a rental of $40,000 for the six-month 
period. 
If the bank purchased and leased the trucks in these circum 
stances, the transaction would not be, essentially, a well-protected 
extension of credit, as in the other situation described. The bank 
would not be advancing $100,000 in reliance on the promise of its 
customer to reimburse that amount to the bank, with interest. 
Instead of ownership intended principally to ensure collection of 
the amount advanced, as in the first case, the bank would acquire 
general ownership of the trucks, with all the opportunites for gain 
and risks of loss inherent in the business of owning and leasing 
property. After the customer had used the trucks for the six-month 
period and paid the bank $40,000, as stipulated in the lease agree-
ment, the bank would be the owner of 10 used trucks in which it 
still had an investment of $60,000, and it would be compelled either 
to sell the trucks at the best available price or to seek to lease 
them to one or more other lessees. Depending upon the bank's skill 
and enterprise, and economic conditions generally and in the second-
hand truck field (or truck leasing business) specifically, the bank 
as an entrepreneur might emerge from the venture with a substantial 
loss or a substantial profit. 
In either event, however, the essence 
of the bank's operation would be the purchasing and leasing of 
equipment, rather than the extension of credit, as in the case first 
described. 
The Board infers that the main purpose of H.R. 947 is to 
prevent banks from engaging in leasing activities of the second 
type and the Board favors that objective. That this is the objec-
tive of the bill finds some support in its title, which as noted 
above, is "To limit personal property leasing by banks", as con-
trasted with the titles of the similar bills in the 88th and 89th 
Congresses (H.R. 9822 and H.R. 117), which were "To prohibit banks 
from engaging in the business of personal property leasing". 
(Emphases added.) Despite this, however, the provisions of H.R. 947 
are subject to being construed as prohibiting not only the second 
type of transaction but also most transactions of the first type. 
The Board therefore recommends that the bill be amended to ensure 
that banks would not be prevented from using lease arrangements 
for legitimate extensions of credit. 
Sincerely, 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 7 
7/31/67 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 31, 1967 
Mr. Charles M. Beeghly, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Jones & Laughlin Steel Corporation, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
15230 
Dear Mr. Beeghly: 
Thanks for your letter of July 21 regarding the study of 
steel imports made by Miss Morisse of our Division of International 
Finance, 
Let me begin with a few comments on research at the Board 
of Governors. 
Many research projects at the Board are initiated by 
economists on our staff as a direct result of questions that arise 
in the line of work. 
Some studies are initially intended for publi-
cation; others, like the study by Miss Morisse on steel imports, 
are intended for internal circulation within the Federal Reserve 
System and to interested persons within the Government, although 
some of these studies, too, are subsequently published. 
These 
studies provide an opportunity for our economists to develop 
professionally and to obtain the views of other staff members on 
their work. 
The studies are reviewed for the soundness of their 
economic analysis by senior research members of the staff, but 
the reviewer need not agree with the conclusions of the paper so 
long as the line of argument is logical and well-supported. 
These 
research papers are the work of the staff, and are not 
r e v i e w e d by 
the Board of Governors, although individual Members of the Board 
may on occasion join in give-and-take discussion stimulated by 
such papers. 
We have found that providing the staff with an atmosphere 
in which there is scope for a wide variety of ideas and points of 
view, and in which economic analyses can be tested against the 
criticism of one's colleagues, is one of the best ways of insuring 
maintenance of high professional quality of the staff. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F THE 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
3083 
Mr. Charles M. Beeghly 
- 2 -
I understand that Miss Morisse's paper on steel imports 
was prepared in the course of analysis of developments in U.S. 
merchandise trade, which in turn is a major element in our con-
tinuing review of the U.S. balance of payments. 
The paper was 
intended to point out the main features of the rapid growth in 
steel imports over the past few years -- a development not so 
familiar in detail to our staff as to persons directly associated 
with the industry -- and to outline some main elements of the 
problem. 
I understand that the staff of the Senate Finance 
Committee learned that the paper was in preparation in the 
course of a meeting it held with Government officials and staff 
interested in the problem of steel imports. 
Our staff did not 
undertake any work for the Committee staff in connection with 
the.latter's detailed study, but in response to a request 
Miss Morisse did provide the Committee consultant with a copy 
of her paper. 
I would expect the Committee staff to accept 
at face value the cover sheet statement that the views expressed 
are those of the author, and accordingly to weigh them on their 
merits. 
With all good wishes, 

«>» Ii 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 6 
O F T H E 
7 / 3 1 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 1, 1967 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of July 25, 1967, the Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, has 
approved the designation of William R. Miller as 
a special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas. 
The authorization heretofore given your 
Bank to appoint Mr. Miller as an assistant examiner 
is hereby canceled. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 7 
7/31/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
August 1, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Erwin D. Canham, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Canham: 
' Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the request 
contained in your letter of July 25, 1967, for the appointment 
of Mr. Philip A. Shaver as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston for the sole purpose of 
maintaining custody of Federal Reserve notes stored at cash agent 
Please have Mr. Shaver execute the usual Oath of Office 
which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with 
notification of the effective date of his appointment. 
banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2)20 
3086 
Item No. 8 
7/31/67 
July 31, 1967 
Mr. E. L. Carmody, Vice President 
Davenport Bank and Trust Company 
Davenport, Iowa 
Dear Mr. Carmody: 
On "behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved the establishment 
by your bank of a branch at 122-24 West Third Street, 
Davenport, Iowa provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
& u J 
Leland Boss 
Vice President 
«HCB:lp 
cc - Mr. Merritt Sherman ^ ^ 
Iowa State Banking Department 
Examiner's File 
COPY 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS 
8087 
?.. C, 3 0 X 442 
ST. LOUIS, MiSSGURi 
tti&y 
item No. 9 
v 
7/31/67 
July 31, 1967 
Eoard of Directors' 
Tho Lal'.o State Bank 
RichZanda Indiana 
Cenfclccisn: 
Oa bc'ialf oZ the I'oa^f ov^ov^ppii, 
acting undc: 
delegates! authority, the F e d ^ a l Zozorvb Clnk of St/Louis 
p r o v e s tho establishment by, ThS\La!;/si^t:e Bank, Kichland, 
Indiana, of a branch ct tho notor./d^t corner of Indiana State 
Highway :.'o0 162 end Lout3 J. KociV^ouV^ard, Santa Clans, 
Indiana, provided the/Erab^i is established vithin or.o year 
frca tho date of 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
O.O: 
> 
~ 
, 
0. 0. Uyrictc 
^ > 
\ 
/ 
Vice President 
cowih*/ 
/ X 
• • 
cc:l Mr'vs Xerritt Sliem^n, Secretary, Board of Governors, Washington, D 
Kr. Donald L.'Jlenry, Manager, Louisville Branch 
MrY Jaraes E. .Fnris, Supervisor, Indianapolis, Indiana 

F E D E R A L , R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
F I S C A L . A G E N T O F TJJIE U N I T E D 
S T A T E S 
S/.n Fraitcisco, C a l i f o r n i a c-iiso 
Item No. 10 
' - 
7/31/67 
July 31, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Well3 Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the L o a r ^ m Governors, acting unde: 
delegated authority, this Bankvias soproved /the establishment 
by Welle Farso Bank, San Franci^o, California of a branch 
at 415 Kest 5th Street_, Los Angelas, Cpilfornia, provided the 
branch is establigl^'uitkin si:: i r V ^ 3 Z* 0* t h e d 2 t e ol- t h l ° 
letter. 
y trulyNyours, 
( s i g n e d ) Irwin L. 
J e n n i n g s 
Irwin L. Jennings-, 
Vice President. 
