Minutes for 
J u lY 9, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2 6 1 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 9, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administra-
tive Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mrs. Sette and Messrs. Sarfati and Thompson of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Massey of the Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Smith of the Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Waller of the Office of the Controller 
Reserve Bank building matters. The following telegrams were 
approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
that had been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under 
the respective numbers indicated: 

2 6 1 9 
7/9/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
1 
Philadelphia rioting without objection the 
Bank's intention to negotiate a contract 
for examination and evaluation of the Bank's 
present building, at a fee of $27,600. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
2 
Kansas City authorizing negotiations to 
purchase the remaining lots in the block 
occupied by the new Denver Branch building. 
Assessment for Board expenses. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated July 8, 1968, recom-
mending that an assessment of .00597 per cent of the total paid-in 
capital and surplus of the Federal Reserve Banks as of June 30, 1968, 
be levied upon the Banks to meet the estimated expenses of the Board 
for the second half of 1968. Such an assessment would produce 
$7,265,300. 
The levying of the recommended assessment was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that certain comparative statistics 
requested by Governors Mitchell and Brimmer would be supplied by the 
Controller. 
Radio frequencies (Items 3 and 4). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated July 2, 1968, from the Division of Bank Operations 
regarding a request by the Treasury Department for reimbursement by 
the Federal Reserve System for services provided through the Radio 
Frequency Management Branch of the Treasury. It was expected that 
this would be a continuing request and in a varying amount each year; 
the amount requested for the fiscal year 1969 was approximately $8,400. 

^ O v J U 
7/9/68 
-3-
The memorandum reviewed the procedure through which the Trea-
sury had obtained radio frequencies for Federal Reserve Bank offices, 
beginning with one assigned transmitting frequency in 1959 to the 
present time, when a total of 20 assignments had been made to Banks 
and branches. The Treasury representative on the Interdepartmental 
Radio Advisory Committee negotiated for the System's needs as well as 
the Department's. Heretofore the service had been furnished without 
reimbursement, principally because of the use of the radio frequencies 
in connection with the Reserve Banks' fiscal agency activities for the 
Treasury. However, because of organizational changes among users of 
the service, the Treasury now desired that the System pay for its share 
of the expense incurred by the Treasury through participation in the 
Interdepartmental Committee's work. Several alternative responses 
were suggested in the memorandum. The one recommended was that the 
Board obtain its own representation on the Interdepartmental Committee. 
Discussion brought out that if the Federal Reserve were 
directly represented on the Committee the Board would incur expense 
according to the amount of time spent on the assignment, and the same 
result might be obtained by reimbursing the Treasury for the service 
rendered. There appeared to be no advantage to direct representation 
other than to avoid reimbursing the Treasury, a procedure that might 
carry an implication of contravening the appropriations process. 
There was general agreement with a comment by Mr. Kakalec that 
in any event the expense should be allocated to the Federal Reserve 

7/9/68 
-4-
offices that used the radio frequencies. Governor Maisel then sug-
gested that it might be possible to negotiate an arrangement under 
which a flat rate would be paid to the Treasury for each Reserve Bank 
office served and the expense allocated among such offices. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the approach Governor Maisel had suggested would be adopted if accept-
able to the Treasury. 
Secretary's Note: The revised arrangement 
for payment for the service was defined in 
a letter dated August 1, 1968, from the 
Treasury Department, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 3. The letter inform-
ing the Federal Reserve Banks of this arrange-
ment is attached as Item No. 4. 
Branch director serving as mutual fund director (Item No. 5). 
President Coldwell of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had raised a 
question regarding the eligibility of a Board-appointed director of 
the Houston Branch, George T. Morse, Jr., to continue to serve in view 
of his election to the board of directors of Crown Western Investments 
Company, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a mutual investment fund. Mr. Morse 
would continue to serve as President of Peden Iron & Steel Company, 
his principal business affiliation. There had been distributed a 
draft of reply to President Coldwell that would take the position that 
in the light of information available, Mr. Morse's election to the 
mutual fund board would not disqualify him from continuing to serve 
as a director of the Houston Branch. 

7/9/68 
-5-
Governor Brimmer said he understood a life insurance company 
had acquired the mutual fund in question, thus introducing another 
consideration, but that he saw no reason to object, even so, to Mr. 
Morse's continuing to serve as a branch director. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the Board had a general 
policy covering situations of this kind. In response Mr. Shay referred 
to a question that had arisen in the Twelfth District in 1955, involv-
ing a branch director's connection with an investment firm, and said 
he found no evidence that the Board had ever raised objection on policy 
grounds. The basic consideration appeared to relate to the possibility 
of conflict of interest, which factor would not be present in the case 
of service as a Reserve Bank branch director in the way that it would 
with respect to service as a director of a commercial bank. 
The letter was then approved unanimously. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
Publication of bank credit card study. Governor Brimmer 
referred to his memorandum of July 5, 1968, regarding the report of 
the task group on bank credit cards and check credit plans. He pro-
posed to separate the question of publication from the substantive 
questions raised in the memorandum and his related recommendations. 
The substantive issues would be docketed for discussion by the Board 
at an early date, but if the contemplated publication schedule was to 
be adhered to, it would be necessary to proceed with the production 

•-» rj« 
7/9/68 
-6-
of copies of the report. He suggested that the staff be instructed 
to prepare the study for publication under Mr. Molony's direction, 
in order that it might be released toward the end of this month. The 
report, he added, had been reviewed by two System research committees; 
in his opinion it was a first-rate research document, and he could see 
no controversial issues in it. 
Mr. Cardon inquired whether Governor Brimmer's suggestion con-
templated releasing the report before the Board had decided whether 
or not it would make any legislative recommendations to the Congress. 
Governor Brimmer replied that it was his thought that before 
the end of the month, when it was hoped to release the report, the 
Board could arrive at a judgment on that as well as on other substan-
tive questions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was authorized 
to proceed with preparations for reproducing the report in the expecta-
tion that it would be released toward the end of the month. It was 
contemplated that an initial supply would be provided by reproducing 
the report in the form in which it was prepared by the task group, 
that a larger supply would then be printed, and that distribution of 
the printed report would be made on a basis similar to that used in 
recent years for other research documents. 
One-bank holding companies. Governor Mitchell suggested that 
the Board devote study to the implications of the current move by 

/wO/i' it 
7/9/68 
-7-
banks to establish one-bank holding companies, with a view to deciding 
whether to make any recommendations to Congress. 
In the ensuing discussion Governor Maisel commented on the 
general contents of the pending report of the task force assigned by 
the Board in 1967 to study the one-bank holding company problem. 
Governor Mitchell then expressed the view that one-bank hold-
ing companies such as were now being formed by large banks represented 
an innovation of such potential importance that it might be necessary 
to enlarge the focus of the study being made by the task force. 
Governor Maisel said two questions appeared to be involved. 
The first, which had confronted the Board for many years, related to 
the inapplicability of the statutory restrictions on bank holding 
companies to those companies that owned only one bank, thus permitting 
ownership of one bank by a corporation engaged in some area other than 
banking. The second question was whether the type of company now being 
established, ostensibly for the purpose of conducting only bank-related 
functions, presented a different problem. In his view, the problem' 
involved in the new type of organization was more directly related to 
the operations subsidiary issue; the policy considerations appeared 
to him almost identical. If the Board had taken a more permissive 
attitude in regard to operations subsidiaries, which at present nation-
al banks were free to use for a number of functions, he felt that it 
would be in a much better strategic position. 

7/9/68 
-8-
Governor Mitchell commented that one of the current plans 
appeared to go beyond anything a bank had proposed to do through an 
operations subsidiary. He had misgivings that the establishment of 
one-bank holding companies by banks might spread rapidly, and he 
believed the Board should soon crystallize its position. If the 
attitude of the Federal Reserve was not promptly stated and well 
documented, the one-bank holding company movement could gain so much 
momentum that it would be difficult to control. 
After further discussion, during which it was stated that 
further staff documentation on the matter of operations subsidiaries 
was in process, Chairman Martin observed that it would be important 
to distinguish between appropriate and inappropriate uses of subsid-
iaries. The broad problem was a fundamental one, and he was glad 
Governor Mitchell had highlighted it. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Kenyon 
and Molony. 
Staff appointment. The Board approved unanimously the appoint-
ment of Joseph R. Coyne as Special Assistant to the Board in the Board 
Members' Offices (an official position) with annual salary at the rate 
of $19,000, effective the date Mr. Coyne assumed his duties. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 

f O O ^ O 
7/9/68 
-9-
Transfer 
Mary Anne Renshaw, from the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer 
in the Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $5,327, effective July 14, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Donna M. Cope, Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration, 
effective the close of business July 12, 1968. 
On July 9, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
6 
approving the appointment of Catherine J. Fry as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
7 
approving the appointment of Joseph David Snyder 
as assistant examiner. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
8 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch in 
Upper Southampton Township. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
9 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Palo Alto. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, Hammond, 
10 
Louisiana, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Tangipahoa Parish. 
Letter to Central Bancorp, Miami, Florida, granting 
11 
an extension of time within which to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of shares 
of two banks in Miami. 

• 
I 
I 
/OO/O / 
7/9/68 
-10-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No 
)eputy Secretary 
Letter to St. Joseph Valley Bank, Elkhart, 
12 
Indiana, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in 
Concord Township. 
Letter to Wyandotte Savings Bank, Wyandotte, 
13 
Michigan, granting an extension of time with-
in which to establish a branch in Romulus 
Township. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
u • 
Letters to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
14-15 
California, granting extensions of time 
within which to establish branches in 
Concord and Fremont. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 10 
7/9/68 
July 10, 1968. 
Bopp - Philadelphia 
Board has noted without objection your Bank's intention to 
negotiate contract with Day and Zimmerman, Inc. to study 
mechanical, electrical, and structural conditions of your 
building as outlined in your letter of June 21. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

Item No 
T E L E G R A M 
7 / 9 / 6 8 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
July 10, 1968. 
Clay - Kansas City 
Board authorizes your Bank to proceed with negotiations to 
purchase Cochran property in Denver in accordance with your 
letter of June 25, 1968, for a price not to exceed $600,000. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

T R E A S U R Y 
D E P A R T M E N T 
I T E M 
NO> 
3 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
20220 
7/9/68 
ANT SECRETARY 
August 1, 1968 
Dear Mr. Holland: 
Confirming my conversation with Governor Maisel, the Office of the 
Secretary agrees to continue to provide radio frequency management services 
to the Federal Reserve System with the understanding your agency will pay 
its pro-rata share of the cost beginning July 1, 1968. 
The estimated cost for providing this service has been revised to 
include authorized pay adjustments. Approximately $8,800 will be required 
0 finance the cost of the service to be provided your organization during 
the fiscal year 1969. Vouchers claiming reimbursement in the amount of 
$2,200 will be submitted after the close of each of the first three quarters 
xn the fiscal year. The voucher for the last quarter will reflect any 
necessary adjustments in the actual cost for the fiscal year. It is my 
^derstanding that this arrangement meets with your approval. 
This letter supersedes the one addressed to you on June 5, 1968 regarding 
radio frequency management services. 
Sincerely, 
A. E. Weatherbee 
Assistant Secretary for Administration 
Mr. Robert C. Holland 
Secretary, Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 

F i f e 
f 
/O 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
7/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 19, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
During the last several years various Reserve Banks and branches 
have requested the Board's assistance in obtaining and protecting from 
interference radio transmitting frequencies which have been reserved for 
the use of Government departments. Heretofore, arrangements for such 
service have been made free of charge through the Treasury's Radio Frequency 
Management Branch. Recently, however, the Treasury advised the Board that, 
because of certain organizational changes involving the Secret Service, 
Coast Guard, and other users of this service, it has become necessary to 
request reimbursement on a pro rata basis for the cost of operating the 
Radio Frequency hanagement Branch. 
The Board has agreed to pay the System's share of this cost on 
the basis outlined in the enclosed copy of a Treasury letter dated August 1, 
1568> from Mr. A. E. Weatherbee, Assistant Secretary for Administration. 
As indicated in Mr. Weatherbee's letter, a voucher for reim-
bursement of the cost of the Treasury's radio frequency management services 
for the Reserve Banks and branches will be submitted to the Board at the 
end of each quarter. The Board in turn will prorate this cost among each 
of the offices to which one or more frequencies had been assigned by the 
close of that quarter in proportion to the total number of frequencies 
assigned. Each branch's share of this cost will be included in the Board's 
invoice to the head office of such branch. 
Very truly yours, 
Enclosure 
-ir-p. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

V O u / v 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
7/9/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 9, 1968 
Mr. P. E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
Your letter of July 1, 1968, asked for the Board's views 
on whether the eligibility of Mr. George T. Morse, Jr., to continue 
to serve as a director of the Houston Branch of your Bank would be 
affected by his recent election to the board of directors of Crown 
Western Investments Company, Inc., Dallas, Texas, a mutual fund. 
Mr. Morse, as you indicated, was appointed to his directorship with 
your Houston Branch by the Board. 
From your letter it appears that Mr. Morse will continue 
in his principal business as President of Peden Iron & Steel Company. 
Accordingly, and in the light of the other information contained in 
your letter, the Board's view is that Mr. Morse's additional service 
as a director of Crown Western Investments Company, Inc., would not 
disqualify him from continuing to serve as a director of your Houston 
Branch. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

or* 
O 
B D A R D 
O F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 6 
• F THE 
7/9/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 10, 1968 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of July 3, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of Miss Catherine J. Fry as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 10, 1968 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
In accordance with the request contained in Mr. Scott's 
letter of July 3, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of Joseph David Snyder as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Please advise the salary rate and the effective date of the appoint-
ment . 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

r— 
^ o o o 
.^'ofco,^. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
7/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N U E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 11, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at the Northwest Corner 
of Second Street Pike and Jaymor Road, Upper Southampton Township, 
Bucks County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed branch 
will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

tr%fTi * > / » 
/ O O O O 
OICOVJ^ 
vo. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
7/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 11, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch by United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, in the vicinity of the intersection of El Camino Real 
and Page Mill Road, Palo Alto, California, provided the branch is 
established within two years from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined that 
your management is adequate, that the proposed branch will serve the 
convenience and needs of the community, and that establishment of the 
branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

ZQ37 
Item No. 10 
7/9/68 
July 9, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Guaranty Bank & Trust Company 
Hannond, Louisiana 
Gentlemen: 
j 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under duly delegated authority, 
this Bank approves an extension of the time within vhich a 
branch may be established at the corner of North Oak Street 
and Wardline Road in Tangipahoa Parish, Hammond, Louisiana, 
to January 1, 1970. 
Very truly yours,.. 
CO > 
Monroe KlmbreJ 
President 
c: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
E
E
C
O
I
D 
C
O 
P 
Y 
t 

2638 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
Item No. 11 
O F A T L A N T A 
7 / 9 / 6 8 
orrics or 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
July 9, 1968 
R e s i d e n t 
Very truly yours 
D
£ 
M. Monroe Kimbrel 
President 
Mr. Stanley II. Wolff, President 
Central Bancorp 
c/o Central Bank and Trust Company 
36th Street at 13th Avenue, Northwest 
Miami, Florida 
33142 
Dear Mr. Wolff: 
On May 8, 1968, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approved the application of Central Bancorp, 
Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Central Bank and Trust Company and Central Bank of North Dade, 
both in Miami, Florida. The Board's order approving the 
application provided that the acquisition be consummated not 
later than August 8, 1968. 
For the reasons set forth in the letter from 
E. Albert Pallot dated July 8, 1968, this Bank, on behalf of 
the Board of Governors, acting under duly delegated authority, 
has approved an extension of time to November 4, 1968, within 
which the Board's order of May 8, 1968, may be consummated. 

" P P I 
FEDERAL RESERVE B A N K OF C H I C A G O 
2 JO SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
(111) HA 7-2 J20 
Item No. 10 
7/9/68 
July 9, 1968 
Charles K. Lienhart 
Senior Vice President 
St. Joseph Valley Bank 
SLkhart, Indiana 1*6511+ 
Dear Mr. Lienhart: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank grants an extension from July 17, 1968 to August 15, 1(J>68, 
of the time in which your bank may establish a branch at the intersection 
°f U. S. 20 and Middleton Run Road, Concord Township, Elkhart County, Indiana. 
Very truly yours, 
* 
} " 
yiti.t- 
't f^ j > 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
C c - Mr. Robert Holland 
State Banking Dept. 
Examiner's File 
C
O
P
Y 

2640 
FEDERAL RESERVE B A N K OF C H I C A G O 
Item No. 13 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
7/9/68 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60090 
()»2) HA 7-2)20 
July 9, 1968 
WUllam T. Orr, President 
Wyandotte Savings Bank 
Wyandotte, Michigan 1*6192 
D®&r Mr. Orr: 
( 
Cki behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank grants and extension from September 6, 1968, to 
February 9, 1969, of the 
in which your bank may establish a branch 
in the vicinity of Eureka Road and Middlebelt Road, Rcmulus Township, 
wayne County, Michigan, 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Rose 
Vice President 
cc - Mr. Robert C. Holland 
^ 
State Banking Dept. 
Examiners File 
C
O
P
Y 

< > ' * 
'J 
4 
(OO'-t 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
04190 
Item No. 14 
7/9/68 
July 9, 1968 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
•Sir-, c-iii)iv 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, actings under delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension toJanuary 19, 1969, 
of the time withit^whieh Wells Fkr^o Bank may establish 
a branch office/Cn the vi&inity of. the intersection of 
Clayton and Bailey Roads, Opncord, \ontra Costa County, 
California. 
v . . . . u 
Thid\ extension is/granted in connection with 
request contained in ymir letter dated July 8, 
1968. 
Very truly yours. 
(SIGHED) CL!3T J. 3WAN 
I 
» 
Bliot J. Swan, 
President. 

* > •« » 
/ I 
« o o 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O . C A L I F O R N I A 
94120 
Item No. 15 
7/9/68 
July 9, 1968 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the floa^d^of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension to January 25, 1969, 
of the time within which Wells ^argo Batik may establish 
a branch office m-^ttre^icinity 6l^the intersection of 
Paseo Padre Parkway and ^^kwry Avenge, City of Fremont, 
Alameda CoXratv^ California^ 
This extension is 
t>eTrequest contained in y< 
.968. 
iranted in connection with 
ir letter dated July 8, 
Very truly yours, 
£L;JT j. SWAM 
Bliot J. Swan, 
President. 
