609 
:v. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
January 2, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 2, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Br imme r 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Williams, Eckert, Keir, 
Ettin, and Fry, and Mrs. Peskin of the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Baker, 
Bryant, Gekker, Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Axilrod reported on conditions in the 
i 
Government securities market in the light of the recently announced 
increase in member bank reserve requirements. 
He also discussed bank 
credit projections, following which Mr. Ruckdeschel summarized foreign 
exchange and gold market developments, with emphasis on the position 
°f sterling. Copies of the charts and tables distributed in connection 
with today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 

1/2/68 
-2-
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Partee, and Sammons withdrew 
from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Doyle and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Shull, Greenspun, Lougee, and Wiles of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Maguire of the Division 
of Examinations 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition 
of assets and assumption of liabilities of The Huntsville State Bank, 
Huntsville, Ohio, by The Logan County Bank, Bellefontaine, Ohio, in a 
form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of The 
Huntsville State Bank by The Logan County Bank, Belle-
fontaine, would eliminate a small amount of existing 
and potential competition, and the overall competitive 
effect of the proposed transaction would be adverse. 
There had been distributed a draft of report to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Planters Bank and Trust Company of Farmville, Farmville, 
Virginia, into The Fidelity National Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia. The 
conclusion stated that the effect on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 

9 
1/2/68 
-3-
While the conclusion of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
had been that the competitive effects of the proposal would be adverse, 
the Bank's Research Department expressed the view that consummation of 
the proposed merger would have a substantially adverse effect on com-
petition. The Board's Banking Markets Section reached the conclusion, 
as did the Division of Examinations, that the competitive effects would 
be only slightly adverse. 
After discussion, the transmittal of the report to the Comp-
troller was approved with the conclusion reading as follows, although 
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed doubt that the effect of the 
proposed transaction on competition should be cited as more than 
slightly adverse: 
The proposed merger of Planters Bank and Trust Com-
pany of Farmville and The Fidelity National Bank, Lynch-
burg, would eliminate a small amount of existing and 
potential competition, and the overall effect of the 
proposed transaction on competition would be adverse. 
Application of Citizens and Southern (Item No. 1). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated 
October 16, 1967, recommending approval of an application of Citizens 
and Southern International Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, for permis-
sion to acquire such additional shares of Jamaica Citizens Bank Ltd., 
Kingston, Jamaica, as remained unsold after a public issue. 
It was 
understood that any shares thus held in excess of the 49 per cent for 
which consent to acquire was granted by the Board on January 6, 1967, 
would be sold in Jamaica as soon as practicable. 

9 
1/2/68 
-4-
There had also been distributed memoranda from the Legal Divi-
sion and the Division of Examinations dated December 11 and December 20, 
1967, respectively, relating to a question raised by the Legal Division 
whether a corporation organized under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act is empowered by law to underwrite or deal in equity secu-
rities for its own account. 
For reasons set forth in the Legal Division's memorandum it 
was the conclusion of the Division that an Edge corporation does not 
have power under section 25(a) to engage in the business of underwrit-
ing, selling, or distributing equity securities for its own account. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of interpretation suggested for 
publication in the Federal Register, as well as a proposed letter to 
Citizens and Southern International Corporation reflecting the position 
taken in the interpretation. 
The Division of Examinations' memorandum presented additional 
background information on the Jamaican case, discussed certain situa-
tions where the underwriting question had arisen previously, and 
expressed the view that either explicitly or implicitly the Board had 
indicated on prior occasions that underwriting was permissible. 
The 
Division noted that the argument of the Legal Division based on the 
asserted "plain meaning" of the statutory language had never before 
been advanced. 

1/2/68 
-5-
In reviewing the Legal Division's memorandum, Mr. Shay brought 
out that the intent was to present squarely the question whether an 
Edge corporation may legally engage in the business of underwriting, 
selling, or distributing stocks for its own account. That question 
had never been decided by the Board, and the Legal Division felt that 
the Board might want to reach a decision on it. However, the Legal 
Division was expressing no opinion on the policy question involved. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that the arrangement between Citizens 
and Southern and the Jamaicans did not contemplate that Citizens and 
Southern would own a majority of the stock of the Jamaican bank over a 
period of time. It was envisaged that Citizens and Southern would grad-
ually phase out and that the bank would become a Jamaican institution. 
However, it appeared that difficulty encountered in selling the portion 
of the stock allotted to Jamaicans had necessitated the acquisition of 
the unsold stock by Citizens and Southern in order that the Jamaican 
bank might open. Apparently it was still contemplated that Citizens 
and Southern would dispose of the portion of the stock that had been 
allocated to Jamaicans as promptly as practicable. 
Governor Daane noted that the question of underwriting of 
equity securities by Edge corporations had not come up to any signifi-
cant extent in the past. The Division of Examinations had recommended 
that the Board continue the existing interpretation that Edge corpora-
tions could, with the consent of the Board, underwrite equity securi-
ties as long as that underwriting took place outside the United States. 

9 
1/2/68 
-6-
He inquired whether there was reason to believe that adoption of 
the Division recommendation would lead to a change in the situation 
described in the memorandum, that is, that Edge corporations had only 
exceptionally engaged directly in the underwriting abroad of equity 
securities. 
Staff indicated that they knew of no reason to believe that 
the situation would change. 
At the instance of Governor Maisel, there followed a rather 
lengthy discussion of underwriting on the part of subsidiaries of Edge 
corporations. Governor Maisel pointed out that it had been the general 
policy of the Board that controlled subsidiaries of Edge corporations 
should not be permitted to engage in business in which the Edge corpo-
ration itself could not engage. If the Board should hold that Edge 
corporations were not legally permitted to engage in the business of 
underwriting equity securities for their own account, and if the Board 
continued the aforementioned policy with respect to subsidiaries, then 
it appeared that the Board would simultaneously be making a decision 
with respect to the ability of controlled subsidiaries to engage in 
underwriting. 
Various provisions of the law that seemed relevant were cited 
by the staff, along with cases involving underwriting activities by 
subsidiaries of Edge corporations, and it was generally agreed that 
harmonization of the several provisions of the law presented difficult 
policy considerations. 

9 
1/2/68 
-7-
Governor Brimmer then discussed the Jamaican case further and 
expressed the view that Citizens and Southern had gotten caught in a 
technical difficulty through trying to adhere to the terms of its agree-
ment with the Jamaican Government. In the circumstances he was inclined 
not to look upon this case as involving underwriting in the true sense. 
Members of the staff agreed that the circumstances were exceptional. 
Governor Daane noted that in any event future cases involving 
proposed underwriting activities by Edge corporations would have to 
come before the Board for consideration. On that basis he was inclined 
to approve the holding of shares of the Jamaican bank by Citizens and 
Southern and proceed generally in accordance with the recommendation 
of the Division of Examinations. 
Governor Mitchell also said that he would be inclined to 
approve in the present instance and consider other cases on their 
merits as they might arise. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the statute was 
clear and that Edge corporations did not have the power to engage in 
the underwriting, selling, or distributing of equity securities for 
their own account. However, he did not believe that the Jamaican case 
involved underwriting in the usual sense of the word. Accordingly, he 
would approve the continued holding of excess shares of the Jamaican 
bank by Citizens and Southern until they could be disposed of in Jamaica. 
Then, without reference to the Jamaican case, a proposed interpretation 
could be published. 

' 8 
1/2/68 
-8-
In further discussion Governor Maisel stated that he would 
approve the holding of the shares in the present case and that he 
would be inclined to postpone the basic decision on underwriting activ-
ities by Edge corporations until the next case involving that question 
came before the Board, at which time the problem could be given further 
consideration. 
A consensus developed in favor of such a procedure. Accord-
ingly, and subject to that understanding, unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to Citizens and Southern International Corporation in the 
form attached as Item No. 1. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Chairman Fascell of the Legal and 
2 
Monetary Affairs Subcommittee of the House 
Committee on Government Operations comment-
ing, at his request, on a Wall Street Journal 
article relating to loans by banks to unregu-
lated lenders. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget reporting 
3 
on a draft bill proposed by the Department 
of Justice "To provide security measures for 
financial institutions." 
Foreign credit restraint program (Items 4 and 5). Attached as 
ItemJ^Ji. Is a copy of Executive Order 11387 dated January 1, 1968, 
governing certain capital transfers abroad. 

9 
1/2/68 
-9-
There had now been distributed a draft of letter to the 
Secretary of Commerce certifying the categories of banks and financial 
institutions that were subject to the Federal Reserve foreign credit 
restraint programs and delineating them for exemption from the provi-
sions of section 1 of the Executive Order, with the exception of any 
bank or financial institution subject to the reporting provisions of 
said programs but not reporting in substantial compliance with said 
reporting provisions. 
The proposed letter was regarded as appropriately drafted and 
its transmittal to the Secretary of Commerce was approved unanimously. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
In further discussion Governor Brimmer raised a question about 
coverage of financial institutions that had not thus far been in con-
tact with the Federal Reserve under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint program, and Governor Robertson offered assurance of an 
adequate surveillance program. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that consideration be given to 
amending the Board's guidelines to place greater restraint on invest-
ments in South Africa, a step that he understood would be compatible 
with the new regulations of the Commerce Department, and Governor 
Robertson stated that the question would be taken under consideration. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Board consider what policy 
should be followed with respect to proposed investments for which 

1/2/68 
-10-
consent was requested by Edge and agreement corporations. 
Governor 
Robertson stated that that question would be studied by the staff and 
that recommendations would be made for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Maisel also observed that nonbank financial institu-
tions not subject to the reporting provisions of the Federal Reserve 
credit restraint program apparently could, by virtue of the certifica-
tion and delineation made to the Secretary of Commerce, make capital 
transfers abroad. 
Various means for closing that loophole were discussed, along 
with the difficulties involved, and Governor Maisel suggested that one 
possibility might be to prescribe that financial institutions not sub-
ject to the reporting provisions of the Federal Reserve program but 
contemplating a direct investment abroad be required to give prior 
notification. 
There was general agreement that the problem should be given 
further study and also that consideration should be given to whatever 
amendments to the Board's guidelines seemed necessary, in this respect 
or otherwise, as developments unfolded. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: On January 1, 1968, 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance, was authorized to travel to 
Japan, Australia, and New Zealand as 
a member of the U. S. Government mission 
dispatched to those countries to explain 
the President's new balance of payments 
program. 
^
-
c 
Secretary 

I I 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
1/2/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 2, 1968. 
Citizens and Southern International Corporation, 
Marietta at Broad, 
P. 0. Box 4899, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30302 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 5, 1967, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to acquire additional shares remaining unsold after the 
public issue of Jamaica Citizens Bank Ltd., Kingston, 
Jamaica, up to an amount of approximately US$2,850,000, 
subject to the same conditions contained in the Board's 
letter of January 6, 1967. However, it is understood that 
the additional shares will be sold in Jamaica as soon as 
practical. 
The Board also approves the acquisition of such 
shares in excess of 15 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
1/2/68 
W A S H I N G T O N 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
January 4, 1968 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell, Chairman, 
Legal and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee of the 
Committee on Government Operations, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your letter of September 28, 1967, regarding 
an article in The Wall Street Journal of the same date entitled 
"Evading Margins — Unregulated Lenders Provide More Money for Stock 
Speculation," and particularly to a paragraph on page 14 which dis-
cusses the making of loans by banks to unregulated lenders. 
You ask 
for the Board's comments, and also for information on supervisory 
policies with respect both to the problem of the "free-ride" described 
on page 14 and to the more general problem where banks extend credit 
illegally to unregulated lenders. 
As you know, upon receipt of your request the Board sent 
a letter to all Reserve Banks asking for their comments about points 
raised by you. 
Their views are incorporated in the following comments. 
As you are undoubtedly aware, on October 20, 1967, the Board 
published for comment proposals to amend its margin regulations, and 
to adopt a new Regulation G (Loans by Persons other than Banks, Brokers 
or Dealers). A copy of the press release embodying these proposals is 
enclosed herewith for your convenient reference. 
Their Publication 
makes The Wall Street Journal article of September 28 considerably less 
significant. 
However, it may be helpful to outline briefly the statu-
tory basis for the Board's margin regulation, and the ways in which 
the Board has sought to carry out its responsibilities under the law. 
The Board's margin regulations are issued pursuant to the 
mandate of Congress contained in section 7 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 ("the Act"), which directs the Board to issue regulations 
for the purpose of preventing the excessive use of credit for the 
purchasing or carrying of securities." 
Section 7(a) of the Act directs 

The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-2-
the Board to regulate credit extended by members of national securities 
exchanges, and by brokers and dealers transacting a business through 
the medium of such members, and Section 7(d) provides discretionary 
authority to regulate other lenders who make loans in the ordinary 
course of their business for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
securities that are registered on a national securities exchange 
( purpose loans") as the Board deems it necessary "to prevent the 
excessive use of credit for the purchasing or carrying of or trading 
in securities in circumvention of the other provisions of this section." 
Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of National 
Securities Exchanges) is issued pursuant to section 7(a), (b), and 
(c), and Regulation U pursuant to sections 7(a), (b), and (d) of the 
Act. 
While the Board has had authority to regulate purpose loans 
by lenders other than banks, brokers and dealers ("unregulated lenders"), 
it has heretofore refrained from moving in this area for a number of 
reasons. For many years, available indications suggested that no 
considerable amount of credit was flowing into the market through 
unregulated channels. The unregulated lenders are difficult to locate 
and identify, a problem encountered, for example, in connection with 
the Special Study of the Securities Markets of the Securities and 
Exchange Commission, submitted to Congress on August 8, 1963 (House 
Doc. No. 15, Part 4, 88th. Cong., 1st. Sess.). In addition, while 
the type of unregulated lender described in The Wall Street Journal 
article of September 28 has attracted more public attention, purpose 
loans are made by a wide variety of institutions, including credit 
unions, insurance companies, corporations seeking to facilitate the 
exercise of their executive stock options, and some tax-exempt organ-
izations, to mention a few categories. The difficulty of framing and 
administering a regulation which will cover such diverse entities 
effectively and equitably is obvious. Responses to publication of the 
Board's proposal have highlighted many problems, for which solutions 
are being sought. 
In 1959, in an attempt to govern the flow of bank credit 
to unregulated lenders, the Board adopted section 221.3(q) of 
Regulation U, which required a bank to treat any loan to a person 
engaged principally, or as_one of_the person's important activities, 
in the business of making /purpose/ loans" as subject to the regula-
tion, unless the loan and its purposes could be "effectively and 
unmistakably separated and disassociated" from any purpose lending 
by the borrower. It is this provision to which the paragraph quoted 
in your letter refers. 

The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-2-
Some banks undoubtedly have had difficulty in identifying 
those of their borrowers who were subject to section 221.3(q). However, 
in many cases the provision has been effective in applying margin 
requirements to the unregulated lenders1 supply of bank credit. One 
of the more important firms subject to that section has stated to 
the Board's staff that since adoption of this provision it has used 
no new bank credit in the conduct of its business. 
Another reason that section 221.3(q) has not effectively 
brought activities of unregulated lenders within the ambit of margin 
regulation is that such lenders have access to many other sources of 
credit, and do not depend exclusively on loans from commercial banks. 
For example, some apparently use credit obtained abroad. Others rely 
on their own capital, or on funds contributed by limited partners. 
Thus, some activities of unregulated lenders described in 
The Wall Street Journal article may not have involved the use of bank 
credit. To the extent that credit was being advanced by banks, viola-
tions of the regulation could exist if such credit was not properly 
collateraled and margined, and violations of this kind would be dealt 
with through normal examination processes. The underlying collateral 
would be checked to assure that proper margins were being maintained. 
Bank management's policies in this area would be reviewed. In the 
event violations were found to exist, the matter would be reviewed 
with senior management and correction would be requested by the 
examiner; the examiner would also call the board of directors' atten-
tion to the matter in his report. The Reserve Bank would follow the 
matter to assure correction and would urge management to have all 
officers become familiar with applicable laws and regulations. 
Even in situations where a "free-ride" loan is adequately 
margined by collateral, the examiner would probably comment about 
such a loan in his report, due to the speculative purpose of the 
credit. The impropriety of such use of bank credit would be reviewed 
with senior management; the matter would in all probability be commented 
upon in the examiner's report and called to the attention of the board 
of directors in the Reserve Bank letter transmitting a copy of the 
report to them. 
During the course of an examination, loans secured by stocks 
are reviewed to determine if they are adequately collateraled. The 
records of the bank are investigated to see if Regulation U "purpose 
statements" are obtained pursuant to the regulation. If a purpose 
statement is not held, the loan is discussed with management to ascer-
tain whether the loan is covered by the regulation. 

15 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
-4-
Concurrently with the October 20 announcement of the 
proposed new Regulation G for unregulated lenders, the Board invited 
interested parties to submit comments by November 20, 1967. Great 
interest on the part of the public was indicated as over 900 responses 
and suggestions were received, and several representative groups have 
traveled to Washington to discuss the proposed regulation with members 
of the Board's staff. All of this information is now being studied by 
the Board's staff in framing the proposed regulation and amending the 
existing regulations. It is hoped that as a result of these suggestions 
the problems remaining can be dealt with effectively. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure. 

16 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 2, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum of 
November 17, 1967, requesting the views of the Board of Governors 
regarding an undated draft bill "To provide security measures for 
financial institutions." In essence, it appears that this bill 
would require the Comptroller of the Currency, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board to promulgate rules establishing 
minimum standards for the financial institutions under their respective 
jurisdictions with respect to the installation, maintenance, and oper-
ation of security devices and procedures to discourage robberies, 
burglaries, and larcenies, and to assist in the identification and 
apprehension of persons committing such acts. 
The Board believes that every reasonable effort should be 
made to thwart the rising tide of crimes against financial institutions. 
The Board has been particularly concerned about this problem and has 
taken steps to cope with it. For example, our examiners have been 
instructed to discuss the matter with the management of banks and, 
jointly with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, we have devel-
oped a questionnaire as a means of calling the attention of banks to 
existing inadequacies in security controls and protective devices. 
The Board expects to continue to emphasize this approach and to provide 
banks under its supervision with literature on the subject, including a 
brochure prepared in the Department of Justice. 

Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
- 2 -
The Board continues to believe that appropriate security 
measures for any individual bank must depend upon such factors as 
th ^ n c. i? e n c e o f c r i m e i n t h e community in which the bank is situated 
cue bank s location within the community, and the physical character-
M 
v! ° f ^ 
b a n k ' s cl u a r t e r s• 
In addition, what a bank might reason 
ably be required to adopt in the way of security measures is related 
to the costs of such measures and the bankTs financial resources, 
onsequently, the formulation of regulatory standards with respect 
o security devices and procedures that would be both workable and 
equitable would involve considerable difficulties. Nevertheless, 
tne Board believes that it is possible to establish practicable and 
errectlve minimum standards for this purpose. 
i 
Accordingly, the Board favors transmission of the proposed 
egislation to Congress for appropriate consideration, including an 
opportunity for the financial institutions that would be affected to 
express their views on the matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

.18 
EXECUTIVE ORDER 
I t e m No. 4 
1/2/68 
11387 
GOVERNING CERTAIN CAPITAL TRANSFERS ABROAD 
By virtue of the authority vested in the President by 
section 5(b) of the act of October 6, 1917, as amended (12 
U.S.C. 95a), and. in view of the continued existence of the 
national emergency declared by Proclamation No. 2914 of 
December 16, 1950, and the importance of strengthening 
the balance of payments position of the United States during 
this national emergency, it is hereby ordered: 
(a) Any person subject to the jurisdiction of the 
United States who, alone or together with one or more affiliated 
persons, owns or acquires as much as a 10% interest in the voting 
securities, capital or earnings of a foreign business venture is 
prohibited on or after the effective date of this Order, except 
as expressly authorized by the Secretary of Commerce, from engaging 
in any transaction involving a direct or indirect transfer of 
capital to or within any foreign country or to any national thereof 
outside the United States. 
(b) The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to require, 
as he determines to be necessary or appropriate to strengthen 
the balance of payments position of the United States, that any 

1 3 
person subject to the jurisdiction of the United States who, 
alone or together with one or more affiliated persons, owns 
or acquires as much as a 10% interest in the voting securities, 
capital or earnings of one or more foreign business ventures 
shall cause to be repatriated to the United States such part 
as the Secretary of Commerce may specify of (1) the earnings 
of such foreign business ventures which are attributable to 
such person's investments therein and (2) bank deposits and 
other short term financial assets which are held in foreign 
countries by or for the account of such person. Any person 
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States is required 
on or after the effective date of this Order to comply with 
any such requirement of the Secretary of Commerce. 
(c) The Secretary of Commerce shall exempt from 
,the provisions of this section 1, to the extent delineated 
by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(hereinafter referred to as the Board), banks or financial 
institutions certified by the Board as being subject to the 
Federal Reserve Foreign Credit Restraint Programs, or to any 
program instituted by the Board under section 2 of this Order. 
2. The Board is authorized in the event that it 
determines such action to be necessary or desirable to strengthen 
the balance of payments position of the United States: 
2 

13 
(a) to investigate, regulate or prohibit any 
transaction by any bank or other financial institution subject 
to the jurisdiction of the United States involving a direct or 
indirect transfer of capital to or within any foreign country 
or to any national thereof outside the United States; and 
(b) to require that any bank or financial institution 
subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall cause to be 
repatriated to the United States such part as the Board may 
specify of the bank deposits and other short term financial 
assets which are held in foreign countries by or for the account 
of such bank or financial institution. Any bank or financial 
institution subject to the jurisdiction of the United States shall 
comply with any such requirement of the Board on and after its 
effective date. 
3. The Secretary of Commerce and the Board are respectively 
authorized, under authority delegated to each of them under this 
+ 
Order or otherwise available to them, to carry out the provisions 
of this Order, and to prescribe such definitions for any terms 
used herein, to issue such rules and regulations, orders, rulings, 
licenses and instructions, and to take such other actions, as each 
of them determines to be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
the purposes of this Order and their respective responsibilities 
hereunder. The Secretary of Commerce and the Board may each 
2 

13 
redelegate to any agency, instrumentality or official of the 
United States any authority under this Order, and may, in 
administering this Order, utilize the services of any other 
agencies, Federal or State, which are available and appropriate. 
4. The Secretary of State shall advise the Secretary of 
Commerce and the Board with respect to matters under this Order 
involving foreign policy. The Secretary of Commerce and the 
Board shall consult as necessary and appropriate with each other 
and with the Secretary of the Treasury. 
5. The delegations of authority in this Order shall not 
affect the authority of any agency or official pursuant to any 
other delegation of presidential authority, presently in effect 
or hereafter made, under section 5(b) of the act of October 6, 1917, 
as amended (12 U.S.C. 95a). 
THE WHITE HOUSE 
2 

•'SpoffiS^Q:. 
BOARD OF DDVERNDR5 
M 
c 
OF THE 
I t e m 
N 0 * 
5 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E SYSTEM 
1/2/68 
AwrrrrrrHfe: 
| [ 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20S5I 
Rt^.*' 
OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 
January 2, 1968. 
The Honorable Alexander B. Trowbridge, 
Secretary of Commerce, 
Washington, D. C. 
20230 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
In accordance with the provisions of section 1(c) of 
executive Order 11,387, dated January 1, 1968, the Board of Governors 
or the Federal Reserve System certifies that the following banks and 
inancial institutions are subject to the foreign credit restraint 
Programs referred to in said sectibn 1(c): 
1. Banks that accept deposits that the depositor has a legal 
right to withdraw on demand. 
2. Savings banks, both stock and mutual. 
3. Trust companies, and trust departments of banks. 
4 
Casualty, fire, marine, and life insurance companies, 
both stock and mutual. 
Management investment companies (both open-end and 
closed-end), as defined in sections 4 and 5 of the 
Investment Company Act of 1940. 
Organizations engaged principally in extending credit 
through consumer, commercial, or industrial loans; 
financing of sales or lease transactions; leasing of 
personal property; or purchasing of accounts receivable 
or similar claims. 
Organizations engaged principally in underwriting or 
dealing in securities or acting as broker in securities 
transactions. 
Employee retirement and pension funds and similar 
employee-benefit funds. 

t"^ (L. 
The Honorable Alexander B. Trowbridge 
Page Two 
9. Foundations, trusts, institutions, and other non-profit 
organizations principally devoted to the advancement of 
art, education, health, philanthropy, recreation, religion, 
research, or similar areas of activity directed at con-
tributing to the general welfare. 
10. Corporations organized under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (so-called "Edge Act corporations") and cor-
porations having an agreement or undertaking with the Board 
of Governors under section 25 of said Act (so-called "Agree-
ment corporations"). 
11. United States branches of foreign banks and financial 
institutions of the kinds described in the foregoing 
enumeration. 
In accordance with the provisions of said section 1(c), the 
Board of Governors delineates for exemption from the provisions of 
section 1 of said Executive Order all banks and financial institutions 
of the categories enumerated above, with the exception of any bank or 
financial institution that is subject to the reporting provisions of 
said programs but is not reporting (or covered by reports filed by 
another or others on its behalf) in substantial compliance with said 
reporting provisions. 
The foregoing certification and delineation are subject to 
modification or termination with respect to any category or individual 
bank or financial institution, in the event that (a) the foreign credit 
restraint programs referred to in section 1(c) of said Executive Order 
are so modified that such category or individual bank or financial 
institution is no longer subject to said programs or (b) the Board of 
Governors determines that modification or termination of said deline-
ation is necessary or appropriate in the public interest. Any such 
modification or termination will be communicated by the Board to the 
Secretary of Commerce. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
