The attached minutes of the meeting of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on June 7, 1967, 
which you have previously initialed, have been amended at 
the suggestion of Governor Brimmer to add the second full 
paragraph on page 19. 
If you approve the minutes as amended, please initial 
below. 
Governor Robertson 
/ \ 
Governor Daane 
'VN ^ 

Minutes for 
June 7, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

2 3 0 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 7, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Messrs. O'Connell and Shay, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Leavitt and Egertson, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Hart and Mrs. Heller, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Messrs. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner, and 
Burton and Rumbarger, Review Examiners, 
Division of Examinations 
Mr. Wood, Personnel Specialist, Division of 
Personnel Administration 

2804 
6/7/67 
- 2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
1 
Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
approving the establishment of a branch on 
Rising Sun Avenue. 
Letter to Peoples Bank of Charles Town, Charles 
2 
Town, West Virginia, approving an investment in 
bank premises. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
3 
approving the payment of salary to William T. 
Cunningham, Jr., as Assistant Cashier at the 
rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
4 
authorizing the purchase of two parcels of real 
estate adjoining the Buffalo Branch property. 
The Division of Bank Operations, in recommending approval of 
Item No. 4 in a memorandum of May 31, 1967, noted that the principal 
reasons advanced by the New York Reserve Bank for acquisition of the 
real estate were to alleviate an immediate need for additional parking 
space; to facilitate access of trucks to the Branch building; to 
improve the over-all appearance and value of the present Branch prop-
erty; and to eliminate a possible future hindrance to security. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 

6/7/67 
- 3-
of The Farmers Bank of Elk Creek, Elk Creek, Virginia, into The Grayson 
National Bank, Independence, Virginia, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that the proposed 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Application of First National Bank of Tampa and Union Security 
& Investment Company. There had been distributed a memorandum dated 
May 31, 1967, from the Division of Examinations with other papers per-
taining to the application of The First National Bank of Tampa and 
Union Security & Investment Company, both of Tampa, Florida, to acquire 
50.25 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of First National Bank 
of Lakeland, Lakeland, Florida. (A majority of the stock of Union 
Security & Investment Company was trusteed for the benefit of the share-
holders of First National Bank of Tampa.) The Division recommended 
approval, as did the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta. 
After comments by Mr. Lyon, Governor Robertson observed that 
there was an interlocking relationship through directors who served 
both banks and said he would be interested in knowing what percentage 
of the stock of the bank to be acquired was held by those directors. 
He noted that the applicants had specified that they did not intend to 
make any offer to the minority shareholders, whereas they were offering 
a premium of more than 7 per cent of deposits to the majority stock-
holder, a director of First National Bank of Tampa and trustee of Union 
Security & Investment Company who had recently acquired such shares. 

a'.IV* K * 
6/7/67 
- 4-
Governor Maisel suggested that a broad question was involved, 
namely, the Board's concept of a proper policy in regard to different 
treatment of majority and minority shareholders. 
Mr. Solomon recalled that somewhat similar questions had arisen 
in the past. From one point of view, it might be held that the same 
offer should be made to all shareholders. However, up to now the 
Board had not tried to impose such a requirement. 
Mr. O'Connell commented that it might be questionable whether, 
as a matter of law, the Board could impose such a requirement. However, 
the Board had taken exception to a situation in which a bank holding 
company had two classes of common stock with unequal voting rights, so 
arranged that minority shareholders could perpetuate and extend their 
control by issuing the shares with lesser voting rights to the stock-
holders of banks being acquired. It was possible that the applicants 
in the present case were aware of that position and had made a point 
of mentioning their intention to limit their offer to the majority 
stockholder to avoid misunderstanding. Also, the applicants probably 
would contend that if the proposed transaction resulted in the benefits 
that were alleged, the minority shareholders would not be disadvantaged 
and instead would improve their position. 
Governor Robertson observed that the value of the stock held by 
the minority could suffer if the holding company were to syphon off earn-
ings and cause the bank to refrain from paying dividends. Mr. O'Connell 

2m? 
6/7/67 
- 5-
agreed that in such event the minority, lacking control over the situa-
tion, could be disadvantaged. 
Governor Maisel remarked that unless existing relationships 
were to be changed through holding company ownership, there would be 
little reason for the acquisition of a bank. The position of the 
minority shareholders might improve or deteriorate if the bank came 
under holding company control, but the status quo obviously would not 
be maintained. He believed a major policy question was presented as 
to whether, if the Board was willing to take action that would allow 
the relationships to be changed, it was willing to do so without having 
the same offer made to all stockholders. Either in conjunction with 
this case or as a separate matter, the policy question should be 
explored. 
In further comments, Governor Maisel said one could not assume 
that a bank holding company was simply an investor. With new manage-
ment under holding company control, there had to be some change in the 
situation of the bank's stockholders, and he saw no reason to assume 
that the minority position would necessarily improve. It was clear 
from the file in this case that there were questions regarding future 
dividend and loan policies. 
Mr. Solomon observed that that would be true whenever there 
was any change in majority ownership of a bank, but Governor Maisel 
pointed out that here an affirmative action by the Board was required 
by statute. „ 

2308 
6/7/67 
- 6-
Governor Mitchell commented that the core of Governor Maisel's 
argument seemed to be that the rights of minority interests could be 
abused more easily through the holding company device than otherwise. 
That was debatable. However, there was admittedly a possibility here 
that the minority shareholders might be disadvantaged. 
Governor Robertson suggested that it might be worth while to 
find out more about the reasons why no offer was being made to the 
minority shareholders, and also about prospective dividend policies. 
However, he would not regard the absence of an offer to minority share-
holders as a reason in itself for denying an application. 
During further discussion, Mr. O'Connell commented that he had 
not intended to imply that holding company ownership would not result 
in changes, but merely to emphasize that it could not be automatically 
concluded that minority shareholders would be deprived. He noted that 
in some cases holding companies had created so-called phantom banks 
into which banks they were acquiring were merged, the purpose being to 
compel the stockholders of the merged bank either to accept stock of 
the holding company or sell their holdings. The Board had not consid-
ered the use of such a procedure as a cause for denial, presumably on 
the reasoning that the stockholders had been given a choice. 
It was then agreed to defer further consideration of the cur-
rent application pending exploration of the questions that had been 
raised. 

2309 
6/7/67 
- 7-
Moody Foundation. The Board had previously considered, most 
recently on May 3, 1967, questions relating to the bank holding company 
status of The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas. The Foundation hoped 
to terminate its holding company status by sale of its partnership 
interest in W. L. Moody & Co., a private bank, to Moody National Bank 
of Galveston as trustee of the Moody Trust. However, in order for the 
proposed sale to terminate holding company status it must be held that 
(1) the 50 per cent interest in the private bank held by the testamen-
tary trustee was not held "for the benefit" of the Foundation, within 
the meaning of section 2(g)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act; and 
(2) the Foundation's sale of its 50 per cent interest in the private 
bank to a trustee would not fall within the provisions of section 2(g)(3) 
that render certain transfers of shares ineffective to transfer control 
thereof. 
On May 31, 1967, Mr. Louis J. Dibrell, attorney for the Moody 
Foundation, presented oral argument before members of the Board, at 
the close of which he was informed that he would have ten days for a 
further written presentation. (Note: A transcript of the oral argu-
ment has been placed in the Board's files.) 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated June 5, 1967, 
from the Legal Division stating that after additional consideration 
the Division had concluded that the Board would be warranted in taking 
the position that interests in W. L. Moody & Co. held by Moody National 

231 n 
6/7/67 
- 8-
as trustee were not held "for the benefit of" the Foundation within 
the meaning of section 2(g)(2) of the Bank Holding Company Act, and 
that, consequently, control of such interests need not be attributed 
to'the Foundation. It was recommended that the Board adopt this posi-
tion and so inform Mr. Dibrell. A draft of letter for that purpose was 
attached. It was the Division's thought that Mr. Dibrell would thus 
be relieved of the necessity of furnishing arguments on a point no 
longer in controversy (if the Board accepted the recommendation) and 
could limit his arguments to questions as yet unresolved under sec-
tion 2(g)(3). 
Governor Maisel suggested that it would be desirable, before 
taking any position, to re-examine the reasons for the conclusion 
recommended by the Legal Division regarding the question under 
section 2(g)(2) (the reasoning having been set forth in earlier memo-
randa from the Division). 
Governor Robertson also expressed the view that further study 
should precede adoption of the recommended conclusion by the Board. 
Moreover, he observed that most of the 10-day period allowed Mr. Dibrell 
had already elapsed. 
During discussion of a suggestion that, if the Board was will-
ing to take the recommended position, Mr. Dibrell might be so informed 
by telephone, Governor Brimmer remarked that it seemed probable that 
Mr. Dibrell must have almost completed his written presentation and the 
Board might as well wait to examine it before reaching any conclusions. 

6/7/67 
- 9-
It was agreed not to take any action until after Mr. Dibrell's 
written presentation was received. 
Interlocking directorate (Item No. 5). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated June 5, 1967, with which the Legal Division 
submitted a draft reply to a question presented by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City whether section 8 of the Clayton Act would forbid 
an interlocking directorate between Founders National Bank of Oklahoma 
City, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and Security Bank and Trust Company, 
Midwest City, Oklahoma. A map accompanying the Reserve Bank's letter 
indicated that the two cities had a common boundary, although another 
suburb (and apparently some farm land) partially intervened. The draft 
reply agreed with the Reserve Bank's conclusion that the two cities 
were contiguous and that interlocking service was therefore prohibited. 
In commenting on the matter, Mr. Shay pointed out that, whereas 
former Comptroller of the Currency Saxon had rendered interpretations, 
in some cases different from those of the Board, in regard to inter-
locking directorate questions involving national banks, the present 
Comptroller, Mr. Camp, had taken the position that jurisdiction over 
such questions was lodged in the Board and that his Office would refer 
to the Board all requests for rulings and interpretations. The staff 
proposed that Comptroller Camp be informed of the present inquiry by 
sending him a copy of the Board's letter. 

(4 
•• 
6/7/67 
-10-
Th e letter was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that the procedure suggested by Mr. Shay would be followed. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
Messrs. Holland, Adviser to the Board, and Broida, Assistant 
Secretary, entered the room at this point and Messrs. Shay, Daniels, 
Leavitt, Egertson, Ring, Burton, Lyon, and Rumbarger, Miss Hart, and 
Mrs. Heller withdrew. • 
Open Market Committee meetings. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated May 29, 1967, from Governor Maisel suggesting that the 
Federal Open Market Committee give consideration to some alteration of 
its meeting arrangements. Specifically, he proposed that a somewhat 
longer meeting be held approximately once a quarter, or whenever a 
major change in the economic environment seemed imminent, with the 
usual Tuesday morning meeting supplemented by either a session on the 
preceding Monday afternoon or one on Tuesday afternoon. The additional 
time would be devoted primarily to a staff projection of the economy, 
with alternative credit policy packages designed to meet specific 
obj ectives. The Reserve Bank Presidents and their staffs would be 
expected to add information on the economic outlook and to join in the 
debate. The object would be to get a clear picture of various views 
regarding where the economy was going and what System policy goals 
ought to be during the coming period. 
Against the background of such periodic projection sessions, 
Governor Maisel believed the Committee could devote less time in its 

0 0 4 f^ 
21 
6/7/67 
-11-
regular meetings to current reporting of economic events. Such infor-
mation could be related to the prevailing set of projections and credit 
policy targets, with emphasis on whether events were unfolding along 
a track consistent with achievement of the desired objectives. If at 
any time the staff or members of the Committee felt there was a basic 
divergence, they could so indicate. An additional special session 
could then be scheduled, or more time could be assigned for a new 
debate and review of current economic events. 
Governor Maisel suggested that time was too limited at Commit-
tee meetings to examine adequately the basic economic situation, the 
appropriate over-all stance of policy, and the specific magnitudes of 
monetary variables to implement this policy stance. Neither was time 
available to bring to bear adequately the regional information avail-
able to the Reserve Bank Presidents, or to question the staff in detail 
on their analyses and recommendations. 
Chairman Martin commented that Governor Maisel's proposal 
appeared to have merit. He suggested that it be tried on an experi-
mental basis if the Committee was so disposed. 
Further comments dealt principally with practical problems such 
as travel arrangements and the time required to prepare background 
materials. Mr. Brill noted, in this connection, that the staff at 
present had a great deal of last-minute work to do to complete the 
materials to be used at Committee meetings. Therefore, if the Committee 

231.4 
6/7/67 
- 12-
had no strong preference between a Monday afternoon or Tuesday after-
noon session, the latter would be preferable from the staff's viewpoint. 
Governor Maisel observed that the proposal contemplated holding 
the extra session only about once each quarter, but Governor Brimmer 
expressed the view that the format would prove sufficiently useful that 
extra sessions probably would be held more frequently. He hoped the 
Presidents would have an opportunity to present more complete regional 
analyses. 
Governor Mitchell noted that there was a fatigue element from 
prolonged concentration that reduced the productivity of full-day 
sessions; from that standpoint, the addition of a Monday afternoon 
session would seem preferable. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that Governor 
Maisel's memorandum would be sent to the Reserve Bank Presidents with a 
view to consideration of his proposal at the next meeting of the Federal 
Open Market Committee. 
Messrs. Holland, Molony, Cardon, Broida, and O'Connell then 
withdrew from the meeting and Mr. Wernick, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics, entered the room. 
St. Louis Reserve Bank salary structure (Item No. 6). At the 
meeting on May 31, 1967, the Board discussed a request by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis for a revision of its salary structure for 
employees, approval of which had been recommended by the Division of 

Z!ii 5 
6/7/67 
- 13-
Personnel Administration in a distributed memorandum dated May 26. 
Questions were raised at the meeting because the proposed revision 
placed grade mid-points approximately 2 per cent above the averages 
of salaries paid in the community for similar positions, as indicated 
by a February 1967 survey. The staff was requested to prepare addi-
tional pertinent information. 
At today's meeting there was distributed a memorandum dated 
June 7, 1967, from the Division of Personnel Administration analyzing 
accompanying tables showing personnel turnover at the Federal Reserve 
Banks in 1966. The second highest 1966 turnover rate in the System was 
that of the St. Louis Reserve Bank, and the Division believed it would 
not be out of line to permit the Bank a structure increase of 2 per 
cent above its market survey, particularly when it was expected that 
the structure would be just about at market level on July 1, 1967, when 
it was proposed to be effective. 
There had been distributed also a memorandum dated June 2, 
1967, from the Division of Personnel Administration regarding the over-
all approach by the Federal Reserve Banks to employee salary administra-
tion. 
The principles of the plan currently followed, which was insti-
tuted in 1947, were to provide for flexibility in administration; to 
leave operating details to local management; to promote harmony and 
understanding between management and employees by the payment of fair 
and equitable salaries; and to obtain proper control of salary expenses. 

234 6 
6/7/67 
- 14-
Initially, each Reserve Bank conducted a complete study of non-
officer positions to evaluate jobs in terms of relative difficulty, to 
translate those appraisals into a structure of grades, and to establish 
rates of pay based upon studies of market rates paid in the various 
cities by progressive enterprises. A letter from the Board to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents in June 1947 noted that the Presidents were 
"in agreement that the Federal Reserve Banks should be in line with the 
leaders in salary administration in their respective areas and that, 
in general, the mid-point of the salary range of the respective Reserve 
Banks should be in the next to the highest quarter bracket of the 
quality community rate structure." 
The June 2 memorandum, which described the methods employed 
by Reserve Banks to survey community salaries at least annually, noted 
that in May 1952, in a letter to the Chairman of the Conference of 
Presidents, the Board pointed out that there had been a tendency on 
the part of the Reserve Banks to place their mid-points close to the 
bottom of the third quarter bracket, and that consequently there might 
be a question whether the Reserve Banks were in fact among the leaders 
in salary administration in their areas. The letter further stated 
that "The suggestion has been made that the Reserve Banks consider 
placing their grade mid-points in the top quarter bracket rather than 
in the third quarter bracket in order to assume the leadership which 
is felt desirable. Wage stabilization rules probably would prevent 

231.7 
6/7/67 
- 15-
such a change in policy at the present time but it might be desirable 
to follow a course of setting mid-points of the salary grades well up 
in the third quarter bracket rather than close to the bottom of the 
bracket. Accordingly, we would like to suggest that the matter be 
placed on the agenda of the forthcoming Presidents' Conference." 
At the September 1952 meeting of the Conference, the Chairman 
of the Committee on Personnel indicated that difficulty had been 
encountered in determining precisely what constituted the third and 
fourth quarter brackets of community wage rates. The conclusion was 
that those who established the salary administration plan had nothing 
more definite in mind than that the Reserve Banks should relate the 
mid-points of their salary grades to the average, or line of central 
tendency, of the labor market and that the mid-points should rest some-
where above the average of rates paid by progressive concerns. 
The June 2 memorandum concluded by noting that in recent years 
it had been the practice of the Reserve Banks to set grade mid-points 
above the community averages, but with some tightening or relaxation 
from time to time depending upon labor market conditions. Generally, 
in a rapidly rising market a lead of from 2 to 3 per cent above the 
prevailing market was allowed in order to give the Reserve Banks head-
room during the period between the effective date of the structure and 
the next survey. The structure now proposed by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis met the general guidelines that the Board had followed 

6/7/67 
- 16-
in its review of Reserve Bank requests for salary structure changes, 
and therefore the Division recommended approval. 
In introductory remarks Mr. Hart commented on shifts in the 
approach of Reserve Bank salary administration over a period of years. 
He cited averages of salaries paid for certain positions by the other 
Federal bank supervisory authorities that were believed to support the 
Divi sion's recommendation that the structure revision requested by the 
St. Louis Reserve Bank be approved, since it also satisfied the general 
criteria that had been followed in recent years. 
Governor Maisel then presented a paper, as follows, designed 
to help bring the issues into focus: 
There are two very separate types of jobs in the 
Federal Reserve: (1) Professional and relations to the 
public jobs. (2) Primarily production and custodial 
jobs such as those in check clearance, cash and currency, 
fiscal agency, protection and janitorial. 
Is it a proper personnel policy to handle all of 
these in a unified manner? Should the Board be concerned 
with both types of jobs? 
What type of overall guidance should the Board give 
the Banks with respect to the second type of jobs? Have 
we laid out clearly enough the different possibilities? 
If sufficient knowledge of different strategies were fur-
nished the Banks, whose responsibility should the adoption 
of a particular strategy be? 
What are some of the choices of strategy of Banks in 
this sphere? 
1. One possibility would be to stress the service of 
the Bank and to hold that small changes in cost would be 
unimportant compared to services rendered. In this case 
Banks would attempt to hire the best personnel and keep 
turnover to a minimum by paying somewhat higher wages than 
the community average. 

2 3 1 9 
6/7/67 
- 17-
2. A second possibility would be primarily concerned 
with the relationships to commercial banks. In this case 
salaries would be set primarily based on the competition 
and lack of competition from neighboring banks. 
3. A third policy would be based on total competition 
in the community with the relationship to average picked to 
achieve specific objectives. 
4. A fourth possibility would be to consider the per-
sonnel policies of the Banks as a public service. In this 
case, more stress might be put on the training aspects of 
the Banks with efforts made to set up special training pro-
grams on the assumption that when the trainees were finished 
the majority would flow out into jobs in the community; for 
example, projects might be devised with the Department of 
Labor to turn out bank personnel on the assumption that the 
Federal Reserve ought to be a primary training ground for 
the semi-skilled employee. 
5. Another question has to do with incomes and wage 
policies. Clearly, any scheme which automatically raises 
wages at or above those of the surrounding community is a 
built-in engine of inflation. What is the responsibility 
of the central bank to attempt to point out the dangers of 
such policies? How should it adjust its own policies to 
take account of these dangers ? 
Governor Maisel observed that at the meeting of the Board on 
June 29, 1966, it had been requested that the Divisions of Personnel 
Administration and Research and Statistics collaborate in a study of 
the validity of the Presidential guideposts for noninflationary wage 
increases and their impact on the Reserve Bank type of salary struc-
tures. He had seen no memorandum or report carrying out that assign-
ment. In the paper he had distributed he had outlined several different 
strategies. It appeared to him that the salary administration plan for 
Federal Reserve Banks, adopted in 1947 and apparently last reviewed in 
1952, had an aim different from the one called for under present condi-
tions; that plan would probably fall under the first of the several 

2820 
6/7/67 
- 18-
strategies he had listed. The question he now raised was whether the 
fifth strategy he had listed was not the proper one to use as a guide. 
He had expected that a staff study such as requested last year would 
point up the considerations involved. 
Moreover, Governor Maisel continued, he had received the impres-
sion that the St. Louis proposal involved a change in policy, in that 
the revised structure would not be based on the most recent community 
salary survey alone but on the survey findings plus a projection to 
allow for a continued rise in salaries. 
Mr. Johnson replied that during recent periods when salaries 
were not rising rapidly the Reserve Banks had been encouraged to limit 
their requests for salary structure revisions to community averages as 
of the survey date. However, with salaries again rising, and in view 
of the lag of several months between the survey date and the effective 
date of a structure revision, Reserve Banks were proposing new struc-
tures that would be at least even with the market on the effective date. 
Chairman Martin asked Governor Maisel which of the strategies 
listed in his memorandum he would recommend, and Governor Maisel replied 
that he had expected a staff study to be made available to assist in 
analyzing the different possibilities. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that during discussions last year it 
had been understood that further study would be given to two aspects 
\ 
of Reserve Bank salary administration. One related to officers' sala-
ries, and Governor Mitchell would comment shortly on a study in that 

2 3 2 1 
6/7/67 
-19-
area that had been arranged by the Board's Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans. However, it appeared that the 
requested study of employee salary administration to which Governor 
Maisel referred had not been initiated. 
Mr. Johnson commented that shortly after the Board's discussion 
in June 1966 the Presidential guideposts were pierced, and they had now 
been largely relegated to the background. In those circumstances, the 
staff had not pursued a study linked to the guideposts. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he would not like to have the 
record imply that the Board felt the wage-price guideposts were no 
longer relevant to the setting of Reserve Bank salary scales. 
Governor Maisel said he did not believe the guideposts were the 
pivotal point. The real issue was whether it was proper for the Reserve 
Banks to follow a wage policy that contained an inflationary bias. The 
St. Louis proposal included a projection of a further rise in salaries 
after the survey date. Thus, the policy question was whether the Board 
felt it was proper for Reserve Banks to follow a practice of leading 
community wages upward. 
Chairman Martin suggested that the role of the Reserve Banks 
in the over-all wage structure of the community ought not be exaggerated. 
The goal was to attract and retain competent people, not by outbidding 
other employers but on a reasonable basis. That, of course, was a hard 
balance to maintain. He then requested Governor Mitchell's comments. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that he believed the influence of 
the Federal Reserve might be somewhat greater than the mere employment 
totals would suggest, and that the slant of Federal Reserve policy did 

2322 
6/7/67 
- 20-
make some difference in community salary trends. On the other hand, 
the Reserve Banks needed to attract competent people, and in order to 
do so they had to have salary scales consistent with those of progres-
sive employers in the community. However, there appeared to be no 
reason why Reserve Banks, as a temporary expedient until excess demand 
had been worked out of the employment market, could not operate more 
flexibly within the salary grades. There were various approaches to 
the employment market problem, and their use would be preferable to 
having the record imply that the Federal Reserve followed an inflation-
ary plan of salary administration. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether it would be advisable to ask 
the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans to 
take up the problem with the Presidents, and Governor Mitchell replied 
that the subject had been discussed with several of them. The discus-
sions indicated that the Presidents were keenly aware of the difficult 
problem involved in trying to attract and retain competent personnel 
without building up the Reserve Bank salary scales unduly. 
Governor Daane said that, like other members of the Board who 
had spoken, he would regret to see the System in a posture of following 
policies that led wages upward. On the other hand, there was a real 
problem in attracting competent people to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
He was not sure how best to bridge the gap. He would not want attri-
tion to occur to the extent that the Banks wound up with mediocre 
personnel. 

6/7/67 
- 21-
Governor Mitchell noted that a set of salary ranges was involved 
and that Reserve Banks had the option of moving personnel further up in 
those ranges. In the St. Louis case, it appeared likely that the Bank 
could make most of the increases that were contemplated even under the 
present salary structure. 
Governor Sherrill brought out that there appeared to be some 
confusion between two basic principles of salary administration. The 
first question was whether the Reserve Banks should pay, on average, 
below or above the levels prevailing in their respective communities. 
In the past the conclusion apparently had been that the Banks should 
pay somewhat above the average. The second question had to do with 
leads and lags. All salaries tend to lag unless projections are made, 
but the use of projections inflates the results of salary surveys and 
simply reduces the lag by whatever number of months ahead the projec-
tions are extended. The first use of such projections gives the 
employees an advantage of a few months, but there is no further advan-
tage to a projection system. He would rather have the Reserve Banks 
follow a policy of paying salaries in the top third of the community 
range -- or at whatever other level was decided to be appropriate --
than to endeavor to project ahead. The lag factor could better be 
overcome by conducting frequent surveys. 
Chairman Martin commented that this made sense to him. The 
fundamental problem seemed to relate to the record that was being made, 

2324 
6/7/67 
- 22-
and the Reserve Banks should not be hampered in their efforts to 
attract and retain competent staff. 
Governor Maisel said that he was concerned not only about the 
record but about the influence of the Reserve Banks in their respective 
communities. He saw a responsibility to point out to the Reserve Banks 
various suitable possibilities for dealing with the problem with which 
they were faced. If this were done, it might be left to the Banks to 
adopt the alternative they preferred, but the Board should not be in a 
position of continuing to countenance policies adopted many years ago 
if they contained an inflationary bias. The problem should be thought 
of in terms of the image of the Federal Reserve System. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the St. Louis proposal should 
be turned over to the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans for review, and Governor Mitchell replied that he did 
not see that there was much to do except to discuss the problem with 
First Vice President Lewis (in the absence of President Francis). 
Governor Mitchell then suggested that the Board agree to approve 
the St. Louis proposal on the basis implied by the comments of Governor 
Sherrill, which meant eliminating the projection. He proposed that an 
explanation be transmitted to Mr. Lewis of the Board's reasoning, with 
a suggestion made that the Reserve Bank might make more use of the 
latitude provided within the scope of the salary ranges for the respec-
tive grades. 

6/7/67 
- 23-
There was agreement with the procedure suggested by Governor 
Mitchell, and it was understood that Governor Mitchell would talk with 
First Vice President Lewis. 
Attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of a letter subsequently sent 
to the St. Louis Bank reflecting the Board's action. 
It was understood that the broader question of the principles 
that should underlie the plan of employee salary administration at the 
Federal Reserve Banks would be given further consideration by the 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. 
Study of Reserve Bank officer salaries (Item No. 7). Governor 
Mitchell referred to the understanding at the meeting on September 21, 
1966, that the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans would formulate plans for a survey of officer salary structures 
at the Federal Reserve Banks. After consideration of the subject, the 
Committee had arranged for Eugene A. Leonard of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis to assist in the project. In a memorandum dated 
Hay 26, 1967 (copies of which had been furnished to the members of the 
Board), Mr. Leonard set forth a study plan that the Committee believed 
represented a useful approach. 
After describing the general outlines of the plan, Governor 
Mitchell recommended that, if the Board concurred in the procedural 
pattern that had been set up, copies of Mr. Leonard's memorandum be 
sent to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. 

6/7/67 
- 24-
Discussion indicated that the plan described in Mr. Leonard's 
memorandum was acceptable to the members of the Board. Accordingly, 
unanimous approval was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Reports on meetings. Chairman Martin and Governor Mitchell 
commented on the recent conference of Central Bank Governors of the 
American Continent held at Mont Gabriel, Quebec, Canada. During these 
comments Chairman Martin mentioned that next year's meeting would be 
held in Argentina and that he and Governor Mitchell thought it might 
be desirable to consider extending an invitation to hold the 1969 meet-
ing in the United States. The Chairman referred to some of the diffi-
culties involved in holding a meeting of this kind in Washington and 
suggested that, if the extending of an invitation seemed desirable, 
consideration might be given to arranging the meeting at some appro-
priate out-of-town location. He made clear that he was not proposing 
a decision on the part of the Board at this particular time. 
Governor Brimmer then reviewed the highlights of the recent 
Paris meeting of the Economic Policy Committee of the Organization for 
Economic Cooperation and Development. 
Credit requirements in mobilization period. Governor Maisel 
reported that studies within the Government relating to credit require-
ments in a period of limited war mobilization were being expedited, and 
Mr. Brill referred to staff work that was being done on various aspects 
of the subject. 

21127 
6/7/67 
- 25-
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Permission to engage in outside activities 
Judith E. Herriman, Editorial Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, to work for a local store on a part-time basis. 
John Williams, Mail Clerk, Division of Administrative Services, 
to work as a cab driver on a part-time basis. 

2,828 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o < l 
• F T H E 
6 / 7 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS • FFI C IA L CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 7, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a 
branch at 5918-24 Rising Sun Avenue, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
provided the branch is established within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 7, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Peoples Bank of Charles Town, 
Charles Town, West Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves, under the provisions of section 24A of 
the Federal Reserve Act, an investment in bank premises 
by Peoples Bank of Charles Town, Charles Town, West 
Virginia, of not to exceed $216,466, excluding the cost 
of land already acquired, $57,297, for the purpose of 
constructing new banking quarters. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Item No. 2 
6/7/67 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No. 3 
O F t h e 
6 / 7 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 7, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Edwin Hyde, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Hyde: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. William T. Cunningham, Jr., as an Assistant 
Cashier of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond at the 
rate of $14,000 per annum for the period July 1 through 
December 31, 1967. This is the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of May 11. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

t€w« >« » 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 4 
6/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 7, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Yi ; 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045. 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
This refers to your letter of May 19, 1967, concern-
ing possible acquisition of two parcels of real estate adjoining 
• ' - ; . > „ - . / . . , ; ;•; 
r 
J 
the Buffalo Branch property. 
vUsJ 
; -
The Board will interpose no objection to the acquisi-
tion of the proposed properties and authorizes their purchase at 
a price not in excess of $350,000, as described in your letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
* 
Secretary. 

BDARD DF GDVERNDRS 
Item No. 5 
• F T H E 
6/7/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 7, 1967 
Mr. George D. Royer, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Royer: 
This refers to your letters of May 26 and June 2, 1967, 
enclosing copies of correspondence with Mr. Ed Miller, President 
°f the Founders National Bank of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma ("Founders"), presenting the question whether the inter-
locking service of Mr. J. C. Andrews as Director of Founders and of 
the Security Bank and Trust Company, Midwest City, Oklahoma 
("Security"),is prohibited by section 8 of the Clayton Act. You 
also enclosed copies of maps showing that, while there is some open 
farm land between the build-up portions of Oklahoma City and Midwest 
City, the boundaries of the two coincide at two different points. 
In his letter to the Board of May 25, 1967, also forwarded 
with your letter, Mr. Miller states his belief that the interlocking 
service in question is permissible under section 212.2(d)(5) of the 
Board's Regulation L (Interlocking Bank Directorates Under the Clayt< 
Act). That section, like paragraph (5) of section 8 of the Act, 
Permits such service between 
"Banks, banking associations, savings banks, or trust 
companies not located and having no branch in the same 
city, town, or village as that in which such member bank 
or any branch thereof is located, or in any city, town, 
or village contiguous or adjacent thereto." 
A footnote to section 212.2(d)(5) states, in relevant part, that 
"The Board has interpreted the term 'contiguous' 
as referring to cities, towns, and villages whose 
corporate limits touch or coincide at some point. . . ." 

Mr. George D. Royer, Jr. 
-2-
Mr. Miller's letter also refers to a qualifying sentence in 
the Board s interpretation digested in 1f 4875 of the Board's Published 
interpretations (1935 Bulletin 834) -
"In any case where there is doubt in applying these 
provisions, consideration may properly be given to 
the question whether there is any substantial conflict 
of competitive interest between the banks of one city, 
town, or village and the banks of the other." 
this regard his letter states that "our bank and . . . Security . . . 
are not competitive in any manner. The areas served by the two banks 
a r e separated by fifteen miles of very congested and condensed urban 
area, including downtown Oklahoma City. We both draw from a completely 
Afferent trade area." 
The legislative history of the statute, however, makes it 
clear that Congress intended exceptions from its prohibition to be 
ased on the statutory language rather than on administrative determi-
nations with respect to the actual competitive situation that might 
e involved. Accordingly, the Board has given the term "contiguous" 
l t s literal meaning, as indicated in the footnote to the Regulation 
Quoted above. It is only in cases where there was doubt as to whether 
Political subdivisions were actually "contiguous or adjacent" that the 
°ard has looked to the competitive situation between the banks 
involved. In the present case, there seems to be no question but that 
h e boundaries of Oklahoma City and Midwest City actually coincide for 
some distance, and accordingly, the exception provided by paragraph (5) 
the statute and section 212.2(d)(5) of the Regulation does not apply. 
The letter dated May 11, 1964, from Mr. William B. Camp, 
^nen Deputy Comptroller of the Currency, concluding that interlocking 
ervice between the two banks would not be prohibited in view of the 
act that "Midwest City and Oklahoma City are not contiguous but are 
eParated by Del City, Oklahoma", a copy of which was enclosed with 
your covering letter of May 26, 1967, seems clearly to have been based 
P°n factual information inconsistent with that submitted with your letter. 
Mr. Milleralso urges that the interlocking service of 
t. Andrews is permissible under the exception provided by paragraph (6) 
the Act and section 212.2(d)(6) of Regulation L for 
"Banks, banking associations, savings banks, or trust 
companies not engaged in a class or classes of business 
in which such member bank is engaged." 

Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
r. 
J .„•' . 
George D. Royer, Jr. 
-3-
' Vfi '.A-fJ • 
states that Security is engaged in the trust business, in which 
Founders is not engaged, but that Founders is engaged in the leasing 
business, in which Security is not engaged. 
This argument is based upon a misreading of section 212.2(d)(6) 
and the statute, which require that neither institution be engaged 
(except to a purely nominal extent) in any class of business in which 
the other is engaged. It appears that there are several classes of 
banking business in which both Security and Founders are engaged, so 
that the exception would not be applicable to their situation. 
You will note that the conclusions reached in this letter are 
harmony with those which you expressed with regard to this matter. 
It would be appreciated if you would communicate the Board's views to 
to. Miller. 
mi.* 
• 

2
«
m 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
6/7/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 9, 1967 
Air Mail 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors has given careful considera-
tion to your request for revisions in the minimum and maximum 
ranges in the employees' salary structure of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis (including branches) and believes it would not 
be appropriate to approve a revision containing a projection 
that results in a structure above the tested market. Therefore, 
the Board has approved revised ranges for St. Louis and branches, 
if approved by your Board of Directors, with mid-points set at 
approximately the market levels determined by your February sur-
vey, without the headroom of about 2 per cent to provide for 
estimated increases in market levels between February and the 
effective date, July 1, as proposed in your letter. 
approval. 
Please advise us of the new ranges pursuant to this 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
6/7/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20BB1 
ADDRIII OFTIOIAL OOBRH'ONDCNBI 
TO THI BOARD 
June 8, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Sir: 
The Board of Governors recently asked its Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans to survey the procedures followed in setting 
ranges for salary structures applicable to officers of the Federal Reserve 
Banks. After preliminary consideration of the subject, the Committee secured 
the assistance of Mr. Eugene A. Leonard of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
to assist it in its work. 
The Board's Committee gave considerable thought to the general 
aPproach that might be followed in making a study that would be of assistance 
to the Board in judging the overall appropriateness of officer compensation 
a t the Banks, and which would also be useful to the Presidents in their annual 
reviews of officer salaries. The Board has now reviewed a memorandum of the 
Committee's views, which describes the general purpose and approach that the 
Committee believes should be followed in the study, and has approved proceeding 
along the lines indicated. 
The Board has asked that a copy of the memorandum, prepared by 
Leonard under date of May 26, 1967, be sent to each of the Reserve Bank 
Residents for his information, and you may expect to hear shortly from 
G°vernor Mitchell as to specific steps to be taken in implementing the study. 
The Board will appreciate whatever assistance you or others at your Bank may 
b e able to give toward early completion of a useful survey. 
Sincerely yours. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
^closure 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 
