MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Hay 14, 1969 

1617 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 14, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 

1618 
5/14/69 
-2-
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Marine Midland. The Board approved, Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer dissenting, the application of Marine Midland Grace Trust 
Company of New York, New York, New York, for permission to establish 
a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Eastern Bank and Trust Company, Whiteville, North Carolina, with 
Waccamaw Bank & Trust Company, also of Whiteville. The conclusion 
of the report stated that consummation of the proposed merger (which 
was merely a transaction to facilitate acquisition of Waccamaw Bank & 
Trust Company by The Waccamaw Corporation, Whiteville, North Carolina, 
a newly-formed bank holding company) would have no adverse competitive 
• 
effects. 
Barnett National Securities Corporation. 
In a memoranda of 
K 
• > 
. 
May 2, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
(1) approval of the application of Barnett National Securities 
Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Citizens 
National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida, and (2) 
denial of the application of Barnett National Securities Corporation 

1619 
5/14/69 
-3-
to acquire shares of Union Trust National Bank of St. Petersburg. 
Corresponding recommendations were made by the Banking Markets 
Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
After discussion, the application with respect to Citizens 
National Bank of St. Petersburg was approved unanimously and the 
application with respect to Union Trust National Bank of St. 
Petersburg was denied unanimously. 
It was understood that appropriate 
documents to implement these decisions would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
Northwest Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum of May 7, 1969, 
the Legal Division discussed the proposed acquisition by Northwest 
Bancorporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a registered bank holding 
company, of Iowa Securities Company, which was engaged in a general 
Mortgage and insurance agency business. 
The Division's analysis led it to the conclusion "that Iowa 
Securities Company's mortgage loan activities, including both credit 
e
*tension and loan service functions, were permissible under the 
Board's 1968 operations subsidiary and loan production office ruling. 
It was recommended that the Board concur in this position. 
Northwest Bancorporation proposed to have a present wholly-
owned subsidiary, Union Investment Company, take over the insurance 
business of Iowa Securities Company. The Board had conducted a 
h e
a r i n g i n 1959 u n d e r section 4(c)(6) (now section 4(c)(8)) of the 
B a n
k Holding Company Act, as a result of which it had determined 

1620 
5/14/69 
-4-
that Northwest Bancorporation could continue to own Union Investment 
Company, Subsequently, the Board had permitted expansion of the 
insurance business of Union Investment Company without requiring an 
additional hearing. The Legal Division recommended that the addi-
tional insurance agency activities now proposed for the company be 
permitted without a hearing under section 4(c)(8). The Division did 
not believe that approval would be precluded by the fact that, 
whereas previous determinations by the Board had dealt with insurance 
activities relating to mortgage loan business of bank subsidiaries 
of the holding company, the present proposal involved insurance 
activities related to the mortgage loan business of a nonbank 
subsidiary. 
A draft letter reflecting the Division's recommendations was 
attached to the May 7 memorandum. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be 
preferable to have a hearing under section 4(c)(8). Although he 
had little doubt as to the outcome of such a proceeding, he thought 
that this was exactly the kind of question for which the hearing 
m
achinery was provided. Moreover, if other insurance agencies wanted 
to challenge the proposed expansion of the holding company subsidiary's 
business, a hearing would provide an opportunity for them to present 
their views. 
Governor Robertson said that in his opinion, a hearing under 
section 4(c)(8) was required in respect to the insurance activities. 

1821 
5/14/69 
-5-
He agreed that the proposed extension of the mortgage business would 
logically fall under section 4(c)(5). However, the general proposal 
to expand might or might not be affected by pending legislation in 
which, if enacted, the Congress would determine the kinds of business 
in which bank holding companies could engage. He suggested that 
Northwest Bancorporation be informed that the Board was not prepared 
to approve its proposal until Congress had acted. 
After further discussion of various related questions, the 
Board approved the acquisition, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
Although 
Governor Brimmer did not dissent from the action taken, he 
continued to feel that it would have been preferable to order a 
section 4(c)(8) hearing. A copy of the letter sent to Northwest 
Bancorporation is attached as Item No. 2. 
Reduced reserves. In a memorandum of February 10, 1969, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed the reserve 
s
tatus of Southern California First National Bank, San Diego, 
California. The bank became subject to reserve city reserve require-
m e
n t s upon its acquisition of two offices in Los Angeles as the 
r e
sult of a merger. 
In October 1967 the Board denied the bank's 
r
equest for permission to maintain reduced reserves, a principal 
r e
ason for the denial being the size of the bank. A date was set for 
m e
eting reserve city reserve requirements that was subsequently 
e x
tended to July 3, 1969. The bank had now requested extension of the 
e
*emptlon until it opened additional offices in Los Angeles or until 

u„ 
5/14/69 
-6-
other relevant changes occurred. The Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco had requested that the Board reconsider its position, 
expressing the view that size alone should not be the deciding 
factor, especially in view of the kind of banking structure that 
exists in California. 
In a memorandum of December 31, 1968, Messrs. Farrell and 
Ring reviewed the criteria for granting permission to carry reduced 
reserves, with special emphasis on the question whether size is a 
valid measure of justification. The memorandum also referred to 
the Board's advocacy of a system of graduated reserves. 
Although 
several proposed frameworks for such a system had earlier been 
considered by the Board but not adopted, another possible structure 
of graduated reserve requirements was proposed in the memorandum 
for consideration in conjunction with the problem of criteria for 
granting reduced reserves. 
Although today's discussion included comments on the validity 
of size 
as a criterion, full consideration of the question of stan-
dards was deferred. 
The continued exemption of Southern California First National 
Bank from reserve city reserve requirements was approved, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. Governor Robertson stated that, 
although he did not necessarily subscribe to the degree of weight 
given to size in the present criteria, he thought that the rule 
should be applied uniformly unless it was changed. Governor Brimmer 

l i 
j 
5/14/69 
-7-
pointed out that at least one of the bank's Los Angeles offices 
was located in a highly-developed area well within the city limits. 
Pursuant to this action a letter was sent to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Savings bond rate. 
In a memorandum of May 13, 1969, the 
Division of Research and Statistics stated that the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation had been informed that 
the Treasury Department felt compelled to present to Congress a 
Proposal to increase interest rates on U.S. savings bonds. 
The 
department had requested an indication of what changes in ceiling 
r
ates of interest the financial agencies would propose if the savings 
b
ond rate was increased to 5 per cent or more, and whether there 
W e
r e strong arguments for keeping the savings bond rate below 5 per 
cent. The memorandum set forth the considerations that needed to 
^e taken into account in developing a Board position. One of the 
conclusions of the staff was that there were no strong arguments 
for holding the savings bond rate below 5 per cent. 
* 
Today s discussion included comments on the implications 
the Treasury proposal for savings and loan associations, and the 
Possible need to increase the savings passbook rate and the rate on 
c
°nsumer certificates of deposit. The predominant view of the Board 

a 
\ r * > i 
5/14/69 
-8-
members present was against any change at the present time in bank 
ceiling rates of interest, at least in the absence of action by the 
Home Loan Bank Board to increase the rates permitted to be paid by 
savings and loan associations. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Forrestal, and Johnson. 
Appointment of officer. The Board approved the appointment 
°f John P. Singleton as Associate Director of the Division of Data 
Processing at an annual salary of $27,500, effective upon his reporting 
for duty, tentatively fixed for May 28, 1969. The Board also approved 
the payment of the expense of moving of household goods and personal 
e
ffects and the cost of transportation for Mr. Singleton and his 
family (not to exceed cost of public transportation), as well as 
n e
cessary expenses in Washington and essential trips to his home in 
California until his family moves to Washington. 
S • 
The meeting then adjourned. 

of GOw •. 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
1625 
Item No. 1 
5/14/69 
A D O H E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 9 P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 4, 1969 
Marine Midland Grace Trust 
Company of New York, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Marine Midland Grace Trust Company of 
New York, New York, New York, pursuant to the provisions of 
Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a 
branch in Nassau, Bahamas, to be located at 330 Bay Street, Nassau, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
°f such Sections and of Regulation M . 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact 
with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, 
and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract 
by another party. In view of the unusual character of this operation, 
the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing special 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may be with-
drawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on the 
condition that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
w
ill be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
notified of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, 
including changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
w
ill automatically terminate on that date. 

it; 
r. ! . " 
~ 
: i 
\ * 4 » 
Marine Midland Grace Trust 
Company of New York 
-2-
>v{ 
-
Plea 
se advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business. 
The Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
With 
respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
roaximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. The Board has noted that as of March 31, 1969, the 
foreign loans and investments of your bank exceeded the guideline 
ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint program. The 
foregoing consent is given with the understanding that those foreign 
loans and investments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level 
consistent with the guidelines; that any investment required will 
be made within those guidelines; and, that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1627 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R B 
t h
e 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/14/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 14, 1969. 
F. G. Nilles, 
Vice President and Secretary, 
Northwest Bancorporation, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Nilles: 
Reference is made to your letter of November 13, 1968, and 
later correspondence and discussions had with the Board's staff through 
^id-April 1969 relating to the proposed acquisition by Northwest 
Bancorporation, pursuant to section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding Company 
^
c t
> of all outstanding shares of the common stock of Iowa Securities 
Company ("Securities Company"), which you advise is an Iowa corporation 
that is engaged in a general mortgage business and related insurance 
agency business, with its main office in Waterloo, Iowa, and branch 
offices in four other cities in Iowa, three cities in Minnesota, and in 
°maha, Nebraska. Subsidiary banks of Northwest are located at or near 
e
ach of the cities in which Securities Company now operates offices. 
It is understood that Securities Company maintains an inventory 
°f first mortgages which ranges from approximately $4 to $8 million; that 
it:
s total mortgage portfolio is held for sale to investors; and that about 
1 7
,500 first mortgage loans, totaling about $270 million, have been sold 
t o
 investors and 
are presently serviced by Securities Company pursuant 
to mortgage servicing agreements. It is further understood that as a 
^^olly-owned subsidiary of Northwest, Securities Company would continue 
t° conduct a general commercial and residential mortgage loan business, 
deluding the origination of such loans, the purchase of these types of 
mortgage loans from affiliated banks and from others, the assembly of 
r e
sidential loans into blocks for investors, and the sale and servicing 
o f
 all types of mortgage loans. In essence, you have characterized the 
n
ature of the mortgage loan business that Securities Company would con-
d u c
t as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Northwest as being of the nature 
n
°w conducted by Northwest's subsidiary banks. You further advise that 
under the subject proposal Securities Company's main office would be 
located in one of Northwest's subsidiary banks located in the Minneapolis-
S t
- Paul area, and that all mortgage loans would be approved at this 
o f
fice and loan proceeds disbursed therefrom. Existing offices of 
Securities Company would, pursuant to Northwest's proposal, continue 

1 6 2 3 
M r
. F. G. Nilles 
-2-
in operation as loan production offices within the meaning of the 
board's ruling of August 14, 1968 (1968 Fed. Res. Bulletin 681). 
hese offices would be operated only as service outlets of Securities 
Company, solely to perform loan servicing functions of the nature 
specified in and contemplated by the Board's August 14 ruling. 
Summarizing, Securities Company would become a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of Northwest, and would perform a general commercial and 
r e
sidential mortgage loan business of a nature now conducted by North-
west's subsidiary banks. Securities Company's main office would be 
°cated on the premises of a Northwest subsidiary bank; but it would 
operate loan production offices at various locations in at least three 
ates. it is understood that only the above-described service func-
ions would be performed at these production offices, and that loan 
pprovals and disbursements of funds would be made only from Securities 
company's bank-located main office. 
. . 
On the basis of the facts set forth above, and on the assump-
°n that no additional circumstances exist or are contemplated that 
alter significantly the proposal under consideration, the Board 
s
 concluded that Northwest's acquisition of Securities Company would 
n
stitute a permissible acquisition within the provisions of sec-
auth
 
o f 
t h e 
B a n k
 Holding Company Act of 1956. That section 
o r
izes the acquisition by a bank holding company of "shares which 
°f the kinds and amounts eligible for investment by national bank-
8 associations under the provisions of section 5136 of the Revised 
a f..
U
^
es
"*
 
T
^ e mortgage loan business of Securities Company is an 
ivity i n which a national bank is empowered to engage directly. 
- S i n g l y , consistent with the Board's August 14, 1968 "operations 
U b s
idiaries" ruling, any member bank, including Northwest's subsidiary 
s
j could, insofar as Federal law is concerned, purchase for its 
account shares of a corporation to perform, at locations at which 
be 
authorized to engage in business, the functions proposed to 
inks 
°wn 
the 
s t
 p e r f
°rmed by Securities Company. It follows that, under such circum-
sh
 U C e s
'
 s e
otion 4(c)(5) of the Act authorizes Northwest to acquire 
a r e s
 of Securities Company. 
r 
The Board views as also consistent with its August 14, 1968 
Se
 
n
?
 t
*
i e
 additional proposal pursuant to which existing offices of 
Co
 
l t :
^
e s
 Company, located in Iowa, Nebraska, and Minnesota, would be 
Co^
 l n u e
d in operation as "loan production offices" of Securities 
y o u P - y . 
The Board's determination in this regard is premised upon 
statement that such offices would be utilized solely for the ser-
mortgage loans made by and on behalf of Securities Company; 
C r e d .
S u c
h servicing activities would be restricted to solicitation, 
^t assembly, property inspection, appraisal, and collection functions 

1629 
M r
- F. G. Nilles 
-3-
usually associated with the making of mortgage loans. All approvals 
of mortgage loans and related funds disbursements would be made at 
the bank-located office or offices of Securities Company. 
Regarding the insurance agency activity presently conducted 
b
y Securities Company at each of its present offices, it is understood 
that Northwest's proposal contemplates that the insurance business 
would be acquired and conducted by Union Investment Company - a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Northwest whose retention was approved by the Board 
*n 1959 pursuant to section 4(c)(6) (now section 4(c)(8)) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act. It is urged by Northwest that the acquisition by 
Union of the mortgage loan-related insurance business of Securities 
Company could be approved by the Board, and accomplished by Union with-
out need for a hearing as provided for in section 4(c)(8) of the Act, 
inasmuch as the proposed business acquisition would not constitute such 
a
 substantial change in either the character or the volume of the busi-
n e s
s of Union as to render inapplicable the Board's 1959 approval deter-
m
ination. In support of this proposal you advise that in the year ended 
April 30 } 1968, Securities Company's insurance operations produced about 
$100,000 in commission income. Of this amount, about $30,000 was from 
sale of credit life and disability insurance, all of which was sold 
to borrowers of Securities Company; $70,000 was from the sale of fire 
a
nd casualty insurance of which approximately 60 per cent,- or $42,000, 
was derived from insurance transactions with Securities Company's borrowers 
balance of commission income was derived from the sale of life insur-
a r i c e
 to individuals having no apparent involvement with Securities Com-
P a n
y . Northwest states that the insurance business proposed to be 
a c
quired would be conducted by Union in the same manner as Union now 
jjonducts the insurance agency business that was the subject of the 
B
°ard
!
s 1959 determination. It is the Board's understanding that Union's 
Current operation continues to be of the same general scope and nature 
^ermined in 1959, and in connection with a later proposed expansion 
° these operations, affirmed by the Board in April 1961. (See the 
board's letter of April 20, 1961, reflecting the Board's understanding 
lion's insurance agency activities.) 
On the basis of the facts set forth above, and on the assump-
l 0 n
 that that insurance activities relating to Securities Company's 
m
°
r t
gage loan activities are and will continue to be of the scope and 
nature described, the Board has concluded that Union's acquisition of 
h e
 insurance business now conducted by Securities Company would not 
^ount to such a change in the scope and nature of Union's present 
^surance agency activities as to cause the statutory exemption per-
^tting Northwest's retention of shares of Union to cease to obtain, 
however, any significant variation from or change in the circumstances 

1G30 
.* 
1 
M r
. F. G. Nilles 
-4-
; / V ' 
sul^Ltted by you in connection with the subject request, particularly 
1 ?*j-
s t a n t : i a l
 change in the proportion of insurance business not re-
a ed to the business or customers of Securities Company, might re-
^ire a conclusion different from that herein reached. It is suggested 
a
t any such variation or change as above mentioned should be made 
n
°wn to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

* 
| 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/14/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 16, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Southern California First National Bank, 
San Diego, California. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to previous correspondence between your 
bank and the Board regarding reserve requirements, and 
particularly to the request from your bank submitted by 
Mr. Blakemore on December 10, 1968, for exemption from reserve 
city reserve requirements for a period of time until additional 
branches are established in the City of Los Angeles or the 
nature of the bank changes or conditions change in other 
respects. 
After further review of this matter, the Board 
grants permission to Southern California First National Bank 
to continue to carry reserves required of banks located outside 
of reserve cities, with the understanding that the permission 
will be subject to revocation by the Board of Governors should 
there be any significant change in the character of business 
transacted by the bank or should the bank open any additional 
off ices in the City of Los Angeles. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
