MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 21, 1972 

2548 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 21, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
_1/ Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

2549 
9/21/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Aquia Bank and Trust Company, Stafford, Virginia, for membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Equitable 
Bancorporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of Farmers and 
Merchants Bank of Hagerstown, Maryland, Hagerstown, Maryland, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Third National 
Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire Friendly Finance, Incorpo-
rated, Paducah, Kentucky, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Manatee National 
Bank of Bradenton, Bradenton, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Graham-Michaelis 
Financial Corporation, Wichita, Kansas, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Wichita State Bank, Wichita, Kansas, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 5. 

2550 
9/21/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the applications of L&L Holding 
Company, Fort Collins, Colorado, (1) to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Rocky Mountain Bank and Trust 
Company, Fort Collins, Colorado, and (2) to acquire W&W Insurance Agency, 
also of Fort Collins, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Independent 
Bankshares Corporation, San Rafael, California, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of The First National Bank of 
Cloverdale, Cloverdale, California, and the successors by merger to Bank 
of Marin, San Rafael, California, and Bank of Sonoma County, Sebastopol, 
California, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
Credit life and disability insurance. On January 21, 1972, the 
Board ordered an informal hearing to consider pending applications of 
bank holding companies to acquire or retain shares of companies engaged 
in the underwriting, as reinsurer, of credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance in connection with extensions of credit by the 
holding company system. In a memorandum dated August 4, 1972, the Legal 
Division summarized the hearing and recommended that the Board add to 
the list of permissible activities under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 

2551 
9/21/72 
-4-
Holding Company Act underwriting credit life and credit accident and 
health insurance that is directly related to an extension of credit by 
a bank holding company or its subsidiaries, on the condition that the 
holding company exercise its best efforts to obtain insurance at the 
lowest practicable cost to borrowers. Several alternatives were presented 
as to the manner in which the condition should be imposed or enforced. 
In a memorandum of August 1, 1972, the Banking Markets Section 
concurred in the Legal Division's recommendation. In a memorandum of 
August 2, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation argued that 
the activity should be considered impermissible. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated that a majority of the 
Board would favor adding this activity to the list of permissible activi-
ties, but there remained disagreement on the desirability and method of 
conditioning the approval. The staff was requested to provide additional 
information on rates and profits in the industry and to obtain the views 
of consultants on these questions. 
After further discussion the Board deferred action, with the 
understanding that the staff would provide additional information for 
the Board's consideration. 
"Grandfather rights" procedures. The 1970 amendments brought 
into the coverage of the Bank Holding Company Act a number of companies 
that owned one bank and also had interests in nonbanking businesses. The 
amendments generally permitted the retention of those nonbanking activi-
ties indefinitely if they were acquired before June 30, 1968; if they 

2 5 5 2 
9/21/72 
-5-
were acquired between that date and December 31, 1970, they might be 
continued until December 31, 1980. 
In October 1971 the Board published for comment a proposed amend-
ment to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, that would provide for the 
termination of such grandfather rights of any of these "1.970 companies" 
no later than two years from the date of the Board's approval of an appli-
cation to acquire an additional bank. The Legal Division had recommended 
that the proposed amendment to Regulation Y be promulgated. However, in 
light of adverse comments received, the Board did not adopt that amend-
ment, but instead agreed to an ad hoc approach. On July 12., 1972, the 
Board discussed the extent to which reviews of grandfathered activities 
should be made. 
The Legal Division recommended that nonbanking activities should 
be curtailed as a condition for approving the acquisition of a new bank 
if applicant's engagement, in nonbanking activities was adverse to the 
public interest or would become such as a result of the acquisition. 
In a memorandum of September 8, 1972, Messrs. Cardon, Chase, 
Leavitt, and Greenspan recommended that nonbanking activities should be 
curtailed as a condition for approving the acquisition if the bank to be 
acquired related to applicant's nonbanking activities in a way that would 
lead the Board otherwise to deny the acquisition of the new bank. In 
addition, the application to acquire a second bank by a one-bank holding 
company whose bank had less than $60 million in assets should trigger a 

o 
9/21/72 
-6-
review of the indefinitely grandfathered activities identical to the 
review the Board was required to make by January 1, 19 73, for one-bank 
holding companies owning banks with more than $60 million in assets. 
At today's meeting Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and Bucher 
said that they would approve the Legal Division's recommendation. They 
felt that failure to curtail the grandfather rights of one-bank holding 
companies upon acquisition of a second bank would lead to the development 
of multi-bank holding companies with a substantial advantage over exist-
ing multi-bank holding companies without nonbanking activities. They did 
not feel that it would be in the public interest for one-bank holding 
companies to be expanding in both banking and nonbanking activities. On 
the other hand, Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan 
would prefer the approach suggested by Messrs. Cardon, Chase, Leavitt, 
and Greenspan. 
The Board thereupon approved the recommendation of Messrs. Cardon, 
Chase, Leavitt, and Greenspan, with the understanding that a procedure 
to implement that decision would be prepared. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On September 18, 1972, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston had voted to establish, subject to review and 
determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an in-
crease from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks 

2554 
9/21/72 
-7-
under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. The directors 
had also acted to establish appropriately corresponding subsidiary 
rates on advances under other sections of the Act, The following 
reasons for the proposed increase were given in a telegram received 
from the Boston Bank: 
The recent action of the Board of Directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston with respect 
to the discount rate reflected a conviction that we 
should in the future seek to keep the discount rate 
reasonably in line with market rates. We feel that 
the proper strategy is that the discount rate should 
follow movements in market rates in a series of small 
adjustments, except on those rare occasions when an 
announcement effect is desired. We recognize that 
this is a difficult time to raise the discount rate but, 
since it is never an easy thing to do, we should make 
a beginning before a large gap opens between market 
rates and the discount rate and we are frozen into a 
situation which will place heavy burdens on discount 
window administration. 
Chairman Burns recommended that the Board defer action on the 
pending increase today. In his view neither the reasons for approval nor 
those for disapproval seemed to be decisive at this time. Accordingly, 
he would prefer to wait and see how market interest rates behaved before 
taking action. He thought any increase in the discount rate should be 
in the nature of a market-following rather than a market-leading move. 
The other members of the Board indicated that they could accept 
Chairman Burns' recommendation. Four members—Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Sheehan, and Bucher—said they would be inclined to turn down the pro-
posed increase if a vote were to be taken today, while two members— 

2555 
9/21/72 
-8-
Governors Robertson and Brimmer—said they would lean in the direction 
of approving the increase if they were to vote today. Among the reasons 
cited for deferring action was the uncertain impact that the court-
imposed delay in implementing Regulations D and J might have on market 
interest rates. Views differed as to whether or not an increase at this 
time would be consistent with the policy decision at the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee on September 19. Governors Daane and 
Brimmer also expressed the view that a Board decision should not be 
delayed for very long; Governor Daane cited the always present danger 
of a leak of information and Governor Brimmer said he felt that a rela-
tively prompt decision was desirable on procedural grounds. 
the proposed discount rate increase would be deferred until a later 
meeting. 
After further discussion, it was agreed that Board action on 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2556 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o > 
± 
a F n ! E 
9/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
•'••?.* 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20531 
•\i ,»; \ 
h • 
-•tie 
• 
ADDRESS Of flOIAL CnHRESPC.JOENCE 
»>•'.'. 
TD THE HOARD 
September 21, 1972 
Board o.C Directors 
Aq'uia Bank and Trust Company 
Stafford, Virginia 
Gentlemen; 
The Beard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Aquia Bank and Trust Company, Stafford, 
Virginia, tor stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective 
i f. and when t he bank opens foe business under appropriate State author-
isation., subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth, 
1,. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business end 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change tc be made 
in the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2, The net capital nd surplus' funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibili ties. 
3„ At the time of admission to membership. such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $125,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$ 1.25,000 „' 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular at rention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation 11, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 203.7 
tl". v ceo J , A. copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

2557 
Aquia Bank and Trust Company 
-2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any t:i.;ne a change In or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank, should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
by silicas. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice 
of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3> should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. .Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock, to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may lie accomplished is limited 
to one year from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied witli and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Tlie Board of Governors sincere1y hopes that you wi11 find 
membership in the System beneficial and p u r relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank 
meany for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
As sis tant Secretary 
•'uc losure 

2558 
Item No. 2 
9/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
EQUITABLE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Equitable Bancorporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Farmers and Merchants Bank of Hagerstown, Maryland, 
Pagerstown, Maryland ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
at*d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
^ light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
X^2(c)). 
Applicant, with two subsidiary banks holding aggregate deposits 
$702.5 million, is the second largest banking organization in 
dryland with 11.8 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State, 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, unless otherwise indicated, 
and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board through August 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Bank ($28a6 million 

2559 
-2-
in deposits) would increase applicant's share of Statewide deposits 
by onlyO .5 per cent and would leave Applicant as the second ranking 
banking organization in Maryland, Consummation of the transaction 
would not result in a significant increase in the concentration of 
banking resources in Maryland. 
Bank is the third largest of eleven banks serving the 
Washington County banking market, holding about 16.1 per cent of 
market deposits (as of June 30, 1970). This proposal represents 
Applicant's initial entry into Washington County and the western part 
of the State and, inasmuch as the closest offices of Applicant and 
Bank are 47 miles apart, would not result in the elimination of any 
significant existing competition. The likelihood that future compe-
tition would develop appears remote. The Maryland Commissioner of 
Banking recently denied a request by Applicant's lead bank to establish 
a branch in Washington County near Hagerstown on the ground that 
Washington County was overbanked (county average of 3,461 persons per 
banking office versus the Statewide average of 5,236 persons per 
banking office). Bank is the smaller of the two banks headquartered 
in Hagerstown, and acquisition of Bank by Applicant would provide 
added competition for the nine branches of the State's largest and 
third largest banking organizations located in the Hagerstown market. 
It does not appear, therefore, that significant competition would be 

-3-
2560 
eliminated or significant potential competition foreclosed by consum-
mation of Applicant's proposal, or that there would be undue adverse 
effects on any bank in the area involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are all regarded as generally 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. It 
appears that the banking needs of the residents of Washington County 
are being met; however, customers of Bank should benefit from the 
higher lending limits and additional services that Applicant will be 
able to provide. This increase in the competitive capacity of Bank 
would be in the public interest. Convenience and needs considerations 
are consistent with approval of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
1'ichael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
'AL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
naane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 3 
9/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THIRD NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Friendly Finance, Incorporated 
Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Boardfs approval, under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 
all of the voting shares of Friendly Finance, Incorporated, Paducah, 
Kentucky ("Friendly"), a company that engages in the activities of 
waking installment loans direct to borrowers, discounting installment 
notes receivable issued to dealers by purchasers, and acting as agent 
for credit life, accident and health insurance in connection with 
such loans. Such activities have been determined by the Board to be 
closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 153). 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, and the Board 
has considered all comments received in the light of the public 
interest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)), 
Applicant's banking subsidiary, Third National Bank in 
Nashville ("Bank"), is the fourth largest bank in Tennessee and 
the second largest bank in Nashville with deposits of $540.1 million, 
^presenting 30 per cent of total commercial deposits in the Davidson 
County banking market. 
(All deposit data and market share data are 

2562 
- 2 -
as of December 31, 1971.) Bank operates 20 offices, all in 
Davidson County. 
(Tennessee law prohibits a bank from branching 
outside of the county in which its principal office is located.) 
Bank makes consumer installment loans through its principal 
office and branch offices in Davidson County. As of August 1, 
1972, Bank's total volume of consumer loans approximated $12.5 
million. 
Friendly is a consumer finance company that operates 19 
offices in the States of Kentucky, Tennessee, Oklahoma, and 
Mississippi, 1 of which is located in the service area of Bank. 
Friendly makes installment loans up to $5,000 directly to borrowers, 
most of which are secured by automobiles, household goods, other 
chattels or real estate, and sells credit insurance in connection 
with its lending activities. It had total loans outstanding of 
$10.6 million as of April 30, 1972, of which $0.5 million were 
derived from Davidson County. 
Although Bank and Friendly both compete for consumer 
loan business in Davidson County, Tennessee, consummation of the 
proposed acquisition would not have a significant adverse effect 
on existing competition since the market share of Bank would be 
increased only slightly. A substantial number of independent 
competitors would remain in the market. Moreover, since Tennessee 
law precludes the establishment of branches by Bank outside 
Davidson County, the development of competition between Bank and 

-3-
2563 
Friendly in other markets is unlikely. Applicant has the resources 
to enter markets served by Friendly through formation of its own 
consumer loan companies, Hox-jever, there are numerous active 
competitors in these markets; in addition, the existence of 
many potential entrants diminishes any possible adverse effects 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition might have upon 
Potential competition. The Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would not have a serious adverse effect 
uPon existing or potential competition between Applicant and 
Friendly. Further, there is no significant possibility that 
the acquisition will have adverse effects on credit currently 
available to independent finance companies by Bank. 
It is anticipated that Friendly's affiliation with 
Applicant, by providing access to the greater financial resources 
°f Applicant, will enable Friendly to compete more effectively 
With other consumer finance lenders in the areas in which it 
operates. There is no evidence in the record indicating that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would result in any undue 
concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of 
interest, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the balance 
°f the public interest factors the Board is required to consider 
under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application 

2564 
-4-
is hereby approved. This determination is subject to the conditions 
set forth in section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's 
authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as 
the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^effective September 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A, Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
v°ting: Chairman Burns. 

2565 
Item No. 4 
9/21/72 
v- ' ' 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Manatee National Bank of Bradenton, Bradenton, 
Florida ("Manatee Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 15 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$1.17 billion, representing 7.21 per cent of the total commercial 
bank deposits held by Florida banks, and is the largest banking 
organization in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
1971, and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
through July 31, 1972.) The acquisition of Manatee Bank ($58.8 million 
deposits) would increase Applicant's share of Florida deposits by 0.38 
percentage points. Consummation of the acquisition would not result in 

256S 
- 2 -
a significant increase in the concentration of banking resources on 
a local or a Statewide basis. Manatee Bank is the second largest of 
nine banks located in the Bradenton banking market, where it controls 
23.3 per cent of area deposits. However, two of Florida's large multi-
bank holding companies together control over 50 per cent of the market. 
It appears that consummation of the proposal would not adversely affect 
any of the area banks. 
Manatee Bank is affiliated at the present time, through 
common ownership and management, with two smaller area banks. This 
common shareholder relationship would be substantially eliminated by 
consummation of the acquisition since it is proposed that the majority 
shares of Manatee Bank would be exchanged for Applicant's stock. 
Applicant also states that the common officer and director relation-
ship between the three banks would be terminated upon consummation of 
the proposal. Accordingly, it appears that disaffiliation of the three 
banks would have a procompetitive effect on area banking. 
The nearest subsidiary banking office of Applicant is located 
miles north of Manatee Bank, and no significant competition exists 
between any of Applicant's offices and Manatee Bank at the present time, 
nor does it appear that the proposed acquisition would eliminate future 
competition in view of the distances involved and Florida's restrictive 
Stanching laws. Based on the foregoing, competitive considerations are 
consistent with approval of the application. Moreover, it appears that 

2567 
-3-
the ability of Manatee Bonk to compete with the area's large banking 
organizations would be enhanced by the proposed affiliation. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
is considered to be generally satisfactory in view of Applicant's 
commitment to inject additional capital into its subsidiaries by 
December 31, 1972, thereby assuring adequate capital for each bank 
in its group. Applicant's management is deemed capable and prospects 
for the group are favorable. The financial condition and management 
of Manatee Bank are considered to be satisfactory, and prospects for 
the bank are favorable. Banking factors are consistent with approval 
of the application. 
Present banking services in the area appear to be adequate. 
However, the development of nearby port Manatee will probably give 
rise to a greater need for international banking services which 
Applicant proposes to introduce at Manatee Bank. Applicant also pro-
Poses to assist Manatee Bank in establishing a mortgage financing 
section, to expand present trust services, and to enable it to satisfy 
iarger loan demands. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served are consistent with nnd lend 
S° m e support toward approval of the application. It is the Board's 
Judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest 
Qnd that the application should be approved. 

2568 
-4-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
fche effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
^aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
^airman Burns. 

2569 
Item No. 5 
9/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
GRAHAM-MICHAELIS FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Graham-Michaelis Financial Corporation, Wichita, Kansas, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank 
holding company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Wichita State Bank, Wichita, Kansas ("Bank"), 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that; 
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no 
operating history. Bank (deposits of $19.9 million) is the eighth 
largest of 14 banks located in Wichita. (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1971.) The Board notes that the principals of 
Applicant also hold an interest in another bank in Wichita with 
deposits of approximately $22 million. However, consummation of 
the proposed transaction is not likely to adversely affect existing 
competition in that there is little overlap in the service areas of 
the two banks. Furthermore, common ownership of the two banks will 
continue to exist, irrespective of Board action on this application. 
Applicant's principals presently own 83 per cent of the 
outstanding shares of Bank. With the exception of 6 per cent of 
those outstanding shares, which the principals acquired subsequent to 

2570 
- 2 -
°btaining majority control, all sellers received an identical price 
for their shares, and Applicant intends to make this same offer to 
remaining shareholders of Bank. Those shares purchased sub-
sequently at a lower price were purchased from brokers without any 
Prior solicitation from Applicant. The Board therefore concludes 
that the offers made to Bank's shareholders by Applicant and its 
principals are substantially equivalent. 
Applicant's financial resources and future prospects are 
dependent upon those of Bank. Its projected earnings appear to be 
sufficient to service the debt which it will incur upon consummation 
°f the proposed transaction without adversely affecting Bank's 
capital structure. Consummation of the proposal would ensure con-
tinuation of local ownership and management of Bank. Therefore, 
considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Bank weigh toward approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served are consistent with approval of the application. It is 
the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 

2571 
-3-
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^effective September 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
T/ Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
voting: Chairman Burns. 

2572 
Item No. 6 
9/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
L&L HOLDING COMPANY 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding 
Company and Acquisition of Insurance Agency 
L&L Holding Company, Fort Collins, Colorado, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 56 per cent or more of the voting shares of Rocky 
Mountain Bank and Trust Company, Fort Collins, Colorado ("Bank"). 
At the same time Applicant has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
Regulation Y to engage in insurance agency activities through the 
acquisition of the assets of W&W Insurance Agency. Fort Collins, 
Colorado ("Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance v;ith §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing com-
ments and viev?s has expired. The Board has considered the applica-
tions and all comments received in the light of the factors set 
forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations 
specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and finds 
that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank and Agency. Bank, with deposits of $4.3 
million, controls 2.5 per cent of deposits in the Fort Collins banking 

-2-
2573 
market arid is the smallest of six banking organizations in that market. 
Since the transaction involves only a change from individual to corporate 
ownership, consummation of the proposal will have no adverse effects 
°n existing or potential competition. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and prospects of Applicant and Bank are satisfactory and con-
sistent with approval. 
In this connection the Board has determined 
that the offers to be made to majority and minority shareholders, while not 
identical, are substantially equivalent. Considerations relating to 
the conveience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
^ith approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that con-
summation of the transaction x^ould be in the public interest and that 
the acquisition of Bank should be approved. 
Agency operates on the premises of Bank and is engaged in 
filing credit life and accident and health insurance in connection 
^ith lending activities of Bank. The Board has previously determined 
by regulation that this activity is closely related to banking (12 
CFR 225.4(a)(5)). 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consum-
ption of the proposal would result in any undue concentration of 
Resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound bank-
ing practices, or other adverse effects on the public interest. It 
does appear that Applicant's acquisition of both Bank and Agency 
will enable those shareholders of Bank who accept the exchange offer 
to share in the income of Agency as well as Bank. Based upon the 

2574 
-3-
foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board 
has determined that the balance of the public interest factors that 
the Board is required to consider regarding the acquisition of Agency 
under § 4(c)(8) is favorable and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
and Agency are approved for the reasons summarized above. The acquisi-
tion of Bank shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. The determination as 
to Agency's activities is subject to the Board's authority to require 
sports by, and make examinations of, holding companies and their sub-
sidiaries and to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the 
Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and 
Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 21, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action* Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
^aatie, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Burng. 

2575 
Item No. 7 
9/21/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
INDEPENDENT BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Independent Bankshares Corporation, San Rafael, California, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
trough acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successors by merger to Bank of Marin, San 
Rafael, California ("Marin Bank"), and Bank of Sonoma County, Sebastopol, 
California ("Sonoma Bank"); and through the acquisition of up to 100 per cent 
°f the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of The First 
National Bank of Cloverdale, Cloverdale, California ("Cloverdale Bank"), 
the banks into which Marin Bank and Sonoma Bank are to be merged have 
n° significance except as a means of acquiring all of the shares of 
^rin Bank and Sonoma Bank; accordingly, the proposed acquisitions of 
the shares of the successor organizations are treated herein as the 
Proposed acquisitions of the shares of Marin Bank and Sonoma Bank, 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation. Consummation of 
the proposal herein would result in Applicant controlling approximately 

2578 
-2-
$112 million in deposits, representing 0.2 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits in the State, and Applicant would become the ninth largest 
bank holding company in California. 
(Unless otherwise noted, all bank-
ing data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
August 31, 1972.) 
Marin Bank ($72.0 million in deposits), the proposed lead bank, 
is headquartered in San Rafael and has six branches serving the Marin 
County banking market. Marin Bank controls 9.4 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits in the Marin County banking market, and is the fourth 
largest bank in the market. 
(Banking data concerning market control 
are as of June 30, 1970.) It competes with eight other banks, four of 
uhich are branches of organizations which rank among the four largest 
banking organizations in California, each of which has over $4.2 billion 
in deposits, 
Sonoma Bank ($27,8 million in deposits) operates three offices 
in the sparsely populated Sebastopol area of central Sonoma County in 
which market Sonoma Bank controls 54.8 per cent of market deposits. 
This seeming market dominance is mitigated by the fact that the 
Sebastopol area supports only three banks; Sonoma Bank's principal 
competitor is a branch of Bank of America; and those Sebastopol 
residents who work in nearby Santa Rosa can choose from among six 
banks in Santa Rosa,. 

2577 
-3-
Cloverdala Bank ($12.6 million in deposits) has three branches 
^hich operate in sparsely populated northern Sonoma County and southern 
Mendocino County. Cloverdale Bank's head office and Healdsburg branch 
compete with offices of the largest and fourth largest bank holding com-
panies in California, with Cloverdale Bank being the smallest bank in 
both communities. 
The record indicates that Banks do not compete with each other, 
and the development of such competition in the future appears unlikely. 
The nearest offices of the three banks are 14 miles apart, and although 
California's unlimited branching laws would permit any of the three 
banks to establish a de novo branch in any of the other bank's service 
area, there is little probability of such a move in view of the rela-
tively small size of the banks involved and the low population density 
Per banking office for the areas involved. It appears that the affilia-
tion of the three banks in a holding company would not have any adverse 
Effects on other banks in these markets. Affiliation may actually 
Promote competition by creating a larger institution which can then 
°P0rate in an environment in which large banking systems are very 
Prominent. On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on 
competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of each bank appear generally 
satisfactory. It appears that Applicant would begin operations in 
generally satisfactory condition and with competent management. In 
addition, Applicant has indicated an intention to increase the capital 

-4-
2578 
accounts of Marin Bank and Cloverdale Bank by a combined $1.6 million 
upon affiliation. Applicant's future prospects, which are largely de-
pendent upon those of Its subsidiary banks, also appear favorable. 
Although there is no evidence that existing banking needs of the com-
munities involved are not being met, affiliation of the three banks 
lJith Applicant would lead to the availability of larger lines of 
credit than either bank could offer and other services offered by each 
bank would be expanded. These considerations relative to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight tox;ard ap-
proval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in 
public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September 21, 1072. 
(Signed) Michael A* Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, 3rimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns. 
