MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 19, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 19, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Eurocard International. In a memorandum dated January 14, 
^970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that 

158 
1/19/70 
-2-
Harine Midland Overseas Corporation, New York, New York, be permitted 
to continue to hold stock of Eurocard International, S.A., Brussels, 
Belgium, without restricting the latter's right to issue credit cards 
to U.S. residents in the United States under an interchange arrange-
ment with Interbank Card Association. A proposed letter to implement 
this recommendation was attached to the memorandum. 
The Legal Division, in another memorandum dated January 14, 
1970, expressed the view that domestic use of the Eurocard by U.S. 
Residents would not be incidental to Eurocard's international or 
foreign business. Therefore, such an investment by Marine Midland 
would appear to violate the condition imposed by the Board limiting 
Marine Midland Overseas' activities to those permitted its parent 
Edge corporation, Marine Midland International Corporation. Alter-
native solutions would be for Eurocard International (1) to refrain 
completely from issuing cards to U.S. citizens or residents, or (2) to 
issue a special type of card to U.S. residents for use only outside 
the United States. The latter course had been suggested by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. After extensive discussion, sup-
Port developed for the solution offered by the Reserve Bank, and it 
was understood that the letter to Marine Midland would be revised 
accordingly. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to Marine Mid-
land Overseas Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 1. 

159 
1/19/70 
-2-
Union Bank and Savings Company. Drafts of an order and state-
ment reflecting the Board's approval on January 7, 1970, of the appli-
cation of The Union Bank and Savings Company, Bellevue, Ohio, to 
| 
acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of The Farmers and 
Citizens Banking Company, Monroeville, Ohio, had been distributed. 
I 
A dissenting statement by Governor Robertson also had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2, 
along with the dissenting statement. 
Peoples Trust of New Jersey. Revised drafts of an order and 
statement reflecting the Board's approval on January 5, 1970, of the 
application of Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey, 
to merge with Fort Lee Trust Company, Fort Lee, New Jersey, had been 
distributed. A dissenting statement by Governor Robertson also had 
been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 3, 
along with the dissenting statement. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Officer salaries at New York. Unanimous approval was given 
t o a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York approving the pay-
ment of salaries to five officers, effective January 8, 1970, at the 

160 
1/19/70 
-2-
respective rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Commercial paper and interest on deposits. Discussion con-
tinued at today's meeting of a possible upward realignment of maximum 
interest rates payable by member banks on time and savings deposits 
and the application of reserve requirements to certain types of bank-
related commercial paper. 
With a memorandum dated January 16, 1970, the Legal Division 
had submitted (1) a suggested amendment to Regulation D, Reserves of 
Member Banks, that would apply a 10 per cent reserve requirement to 
commercial paper with a maturity of one day or more issued by a parent 
collateral affiliate of a member bank, if the proceeds were chan-
neled to the bank, and (2) a draft supplement to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, that would prescribe maximum rates of interest 
Payable by member banks on savings deposits and on specified single 
and multiple maturity time deposits. 
The Division of Research and Statistics had prepared alter-
native schedules of proposed rate ceilings for consumer-type deposits, 
including passbook, and those having single or multiple maturities of 
30-89 days, 90 days or more, one year, and two years, as well as 
alternative schedules for similar categories of rate ceilings on 
large certificates of deposit ($100,000 or more). 
Discussion turned first to the schedule of ceilings proposed 
consumer-type deposits. Preference was expressed by the majority 

161 
1/19/70 
-2-
of the Board for a maximum of 4-1/2 per cent on passbook savings, 
with a 6 per cent maximum rate on the longest maturity, i.e., one 
or two years. One member of the Board indicated that he would omit 
the one-year category, while another Board member expressed himself 
in favor of imposing the 6 per cent maximum rate on the one-year 
maturity if the two-year category were omitted. Views were less well 
defined with respect to intermediate categories, although there was 
general agreement that a move in this area should relate to action 
by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. For example, Governor Robertson 
indicated that in order to avoid a draining away of funds from thrift 
institutions, he would not be inclined to make any move on consumer-
type deposits unless and until the Home Loan Bank Board proposed com-
parable measures with respect to savings and loan association ceiling 
rates. If everyone did move, he would hope that the move would be at 
least to 6 per cent for commercial banks with 6-1/4 per cent for 
savings and loan associations. 
With respect to the large CD rate ceilings, views were some-
what divided. Governor Daane tentatively favored a rate as high as 
7-1/2 per cent for CD's with maturities of one year and over, while 
Governor Brimmer preferred a 7-1/4 per cent maximum. Governor Maisel 
Suggested that a 7 per cent maximum on maturities of 180 days and 
over would suffice. Chairman Martin expressed the view that some 
action was needed to unfreeze a frozen market, recognizing that it was 

162 
1/19/70 
-2-
difficult to anticipate the results. On balance, he would prefer a 
7-1/2 per cent maximum on the long rate because it was more likely 
to produce some thawing out; 7 per cent, in his view, would be too 
low, but 7-1/4 per cent might be effective. 
- i 
Governor Robertson stated, at one point during the discussion, 
that in order to minimize the upward push of interest rates he would 
be inclined to move to quantitative controls. On the basis of the 
total large CD's, commercial paper, and Eurodollars outstanding as of 
a certain date, he would allow a member bank to pay whatever rates it 
wished; however, the rate of expansion above the base amount would be 
controlled. This would allow an orderly expansion, but without 
ballooning of bank credit. Governor Maisel commented that he would 
prefer to establish a base on the asset side rather than the liabil-
ity side. However, he felt that either procedure would involve too 
drastic a change at the present time, and other members of the Board 
appeared to concur. 
During further discussion, reference was made to telegrams 
received from the U.S. Savings and Loan League, the National Associ-
ation of Mutual Savings Banks, and the National Association of Home 
Builders protesting any narrowing of the differential between rates 
Payable on commercial bank and thrift institution deposits. Members 
°f the Board were also advised of the receipt of a telegram from 
Chairman Patman requesting that the House Banking and Currency Com-
mittee be kept informed of Board deliberations and conclusions with 

163 
1/19/70 
-2-
respect to possible changes in Regulation Q. A proposed reply was 
also made available, and several changes were suggested. 
Consideration then turned to the proposal to apply a 10 per 
cent reserve requirement to commercial paper with a maturity of one 
day or more issued by a parent or collateral affiliate of a member 
bank, if the proceeds were channeled to the bank. Concern was 
expressed over the restrictiveness of some of the illustrative 
Paragraphs dealing with the effects of the proposed amendments as 
applied to affiliates, particularly because there did not appear to 
be sufficient information available as to probable impact. It was 
suggested that the proposal could be published for comment and that 
the staff could develop memoranda on the technical issues involved. 
Discussion developed support on the part of the majority of the Board 
for the proposal, but with the deletion of the designated illustra-
tive paragraphs. 
Question was raised whether Regulation Q should also be 
applied to certain categories of commercial paper. Various proposals 
were set forth, one of which contemplated the application of Regula-
tion Q to commercial paper of less than 30 days, with no ceiling on 
commercial paper of longer maturity. However, views did not appear 
to be sufficiently crystallized to support any application of Regu-
lation Q to commercial paper at this time. Some of the reluctance 
was attributed to the uncertainty as to the impact of the proposed 
reserve requirement. It was suggested that the imposition of a 

1613 
.. 
. 
1/19/70 
-8-
J-U per cent reserve requirement would serve as a half-way house in 
the Board's decision-making process. Such a requirement against 
short-maturity paper should substantially discourage its issuance, 
and an opportunity would be afforded to collect figures on resultant 
flows so that the Board would be in a better position at a later date 
to arrive at a judgment. 
It 
was understood that the draft notice of proposed rule 
making relative to the imposition of a 10 per cent reserve requirement 
on commercial paper and the amended Supplement to Regulation Q would 
be revised to reflect the views expressed, and that the subject of 
ceiling rates would be considered further tomorrow morning prior to 
the meeting of the Board with the other regulatory agencies. 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Chairman Patman 
in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
— — — — — — — — — — — — 
The meeting then adjourned. 
U\ :. 
Mtroo 
fcito 
i'^tHj ct 

.^TrTS^;.-
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
165 
Item No. 4 
1/19/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRESPtiMDENCE 
TQ THE BOARD 
January 21, 1970 
Mar ine Midland Overseas Corporation, 
140 B roadway, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has received and studied your re-
quest relating to the condition set forth in the second paragraph 
of the Board's lett er of October 7, 1968, granting permission for 
your Corporation ("MMOC") to purchase and held 30 per cent of the 
stock of Eurocard International, S.A. ("Eurccard"), Brussels, 
Belgium. 
Fro.ii the information supplied on Eurocard's present activ-
ities affecting residents of the United States or taking place in 
the United Stctes, either directly or through a subsidiary (Euro-
card, Inc., New York, New York) or agent, it is understood that: 
(1) Eurocards are issued at an annual fee to creditworthy applicants, 
including residents cf the United States; (2) Eurocard has become 
a member of the Interbank Card Association, permitting the inter-
changeability of the cardholder's privileges: (3) Eurocard has made 
agreements with various establishments (primarily hotels) abroad and 
some in the United States, whereby the establishment agrees to ac-
cept Eurocards in payment of charges and Eurocard has agreed to 
purchase such credits; (4) solicitation by Eurocard of additional 
establisaments in the United States honoring Eurocard has ceased ana 
agreements made earlier with such establishments have been, or are 
in the process of being, canceled; (5) the billing of holders of 
Eurocard resident in the United States, and the interchange of 
charges with Interbank are handled for Eurocard by an agent in the 
United States, presently Marine Midland Grace Trust Company of New 
^°rk; and (6) Eurocard, Inc. is acting only as an address to which 
requests for assistance by Eurocard holders may be directed, and is 
directly or indirectly, soliciting any new business for Eurocard 
the United States. 
The Board has concluded that it would not be appropriate 
for MMOC to continue to hold the stock of Eurocard, if Eurocard con-
f- " 
Linues to issue cards to residents of the States of the United States 

| 
166 
! Marine Midland Overseas Corporation -2-
1 
il; 
or the District of Columbia which could be utilized in any of those 
States or the District of Columbia; however, the Board will not 
interpose: any objection if Eurccard honors such cards as are cur-
rently outstanding, provided that such practice is terminated bv 
February 1, 1971/ 
Except for the foregoing paragraph and on the basis of 
the foregoing understanding, the Board has also concluded that trans-
actions by Eurocard in the United States, as:described in your letters, 
are not such activities in the United States as would be subject to 
the aforementioned condition contained in the Board's letter of 
October 7, 1968. The Board has further concluded that the said con-
dition can be modified and accordingly amends it so as to permit the 
continued existence of Eurocard, Inc. so long as that subsidiary's 
activities are restricted to those prescribed in the second para-
graph of this Letter, and to services connected with the billing of . 
Eurocard holders and with Eurocard's membership in Interbank Card 
Association. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 

167 
Item No. 4 
1/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
ln ^ e Hatter of the Application of 
T H E UUI0H BANK AND SAVINGS COMPANY 
£°r aPP"roval of acquisition of assets of 
e Farmers and Citizens Banking Company 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK1S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Banl: lferger Act (12 U.S.C. 1328(c)), an application by The Union Bank and 
n 
nGs Company, Bellevue, Ohio, a State member bank of the Federal 
^servo o 
v e oyctem, for the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets 
assumption of deposit liabilities of The Farmers and Citizens Banking 
mPany, Honroeville, Ohio, and, as an incident thereto, The Union Bank 
Savings Company has applied, under section 9 of the Federal Reserve 
U.S.C. 321), for the Board's prior approval of the establishment 
bank of a branch at the location of the sole office of The Farmers 
that 
^it:izens Banking Company. Notice of the proposed acquisition of assets 
assumption of deposit liabilities, in form approved by the Board, has 
Polished pursuant to said Act. 

lNl 
-5-
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
a n d the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
pos*l transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
B°srd's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption of 
dg 
Posit liabilities and establishment of the branch shall not be consum-
Dttat:ed (a) before the thirtieth calendar day follov7ing the date of this 
e c 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order unless 
Uch period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
° e r v e Banl; of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 19th day of January 1970, 
By order of the Board of Governors0 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane 
/signed/ Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A# Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 

1613 
BOARD OF GOVERHORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL R3SERVS CYCTEIi 
APPLICATION BY THE UITIOH BAHX AND SAVINGS COMPANY 
FOR /.PPROV/.L OF THE /CQUICITIOtT OF ASEETC OF 
THE FARIiERC /..ID CITIZENS BANKING COMPANY 
CTl TEIENT 
The Union Br.nl; and Savings Company, Bellevue, Ohio ("Union 
Bcnk"), uith total deposits of $19.9 million, has applied, pursuant 
t o the 3r.nl; Merger Act (12 U.C.C. lC20(c)), for the Board's prior 
aPproval of its acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit lia-
bilities of The Farmers and Citizens Banking Company, Monroeville, Ohio 
("Farmers Ban!;"), which has total deposits of $5.4 million.-^ As an 
incident to the transaction, the sole office of Farmers Ban!; x/ould 
°ecome a branch of Union Ban!;, increasing the number of its offices 
tc> three. 
Competition. - The head office and only branch of Union Ban!; 
in Bellevue (population 9,400), uhich is about 65 miles uest of 
Cleveland. Bellevue has more than 40 industrial concerns, uhich have a 
tQtal of about 2,500 employees. The surrounding area is devoted to 
a3*riculture. Tliere is one other bank in the community, The First 
Actional Bank of Bellevue (deposits $16.7 million). There is also a 
bcnk (deposits $9.4 million) in Clyde (population 5,000), about seven 
miles uest of Bellevue, 
y Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 

-2-
170 
The sole office of Farmers Bank is in Honroeville (population 
1>400), about nine miles east of Bellevue. There is some business 
activity in Honroeville, but agriculture provides the principal economic 
support for the area served by Farmers Bank. Honroeville" is five miles 
/ 
"est of Norwalk (population 13,000), the seat of government for Huron 
County, There are two banks in Norualk, the Huron County Banking 
Company (deposits $20 million) and The Citizens National Bank of Norualk 
(deposits $16 million). These banks are the major competitors of 
farmers Bank. 
Union Bank and Farmers Bank drau the preponderance of their 
business from different areas, but there is some competition betueen 
them. Union Bank derives 6.2 per cent of its loans and 2.9 per cent of 
t s deposits from the area served by Frrmers Bank. Farmers Bank derives 
3' p 
per cent or its loans and 4.2 per cent of its deposits from the 
area served by Union Bank. The business derived by Union Bank from the 
service area of Farmers Bank, particularly loan business, is attributal 
i n part to its larger size and lending limit. Although Ohio lau permits 
county-uide de: novo branching, the potential for greater competition 
between the tuo banks is limited by the small size of Farmers Bank and 
the community it serves. 
Six banks operate 12 offices in the combined service areas of 
Union Bank and Farmers Bank, Union Bank, uith 21 per cent of the 
deposits, ranks second in size among these banks; Farmers Bank, uith 
ab°ut six per cent of the deposits, is the smallest. The largest bank 

in the area holds about 30 per cent of the deposits. Union Bank, with 
per cent of the deposits, ranks third in size among the eight banks 
that operate in Huron County;-'' Farmers Bank, with 4.4 per cent of the 
deposits, is the smallest bank in the county. Following the acquisi-
tion of Farmers Bank, Union Bank would be the second largest bank in 
the county in terms of deposits; the largest bank in the county holds 
23,7 per cent of the deposits and the bank presently ranking second 
holds 17.4 per cent of the deposits. 
The proposed transaction would have a slightly adverse effect 
°n competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
inking factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to merge 
a r e reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the community» - It appears that the 
banking needs of the Monroeville community are being adequately met and 
Without undue inconvenience. As was indicated earlier, Monroeville is 
°nly fj[VG mj[ieG from Norwalk, which is the site of two banks, both of 
v,hich are significantly larger than Farmers Bank. However, the replace-
ment of Farmers Bank by an office of Union Bank would make a wider 
tange of banking services more conveniently available to the Monroeville 
immunity. 
Union Bank could also establish branches in Sandusky County because 
a Portion of the community in which it is headquartered lies in that 
c°unty. 

lNl 
- 5 -
Summary and conclusion, - In the judgment of the Board, the 
Proposed transaction vjould have only a slightly adverse effect on 
competition, \7hich uould be offset by the benefit to the banking con-
venience of the Honroeville community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
k® approved. 
January 19, 1970. 
V 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Union Bank and Farmers Bank are only nine miles apart; the 
communities they serve are linked by a good road and there are no 
banking offices in the intervening area. The banks are direct compet-
itors, with each deriving a significant portion of its business from 
the service area of the other. Moreover, there is potential for 
increased competition betx/een the two banks, particularly since Union 
Bank could establish de novo branches in or near Norwalk, and thus near 
ttonroeville. 
The already high concentration of banking resources in Huron 
county will be substantially increased by the amalgamation of Union 
Bo-nk and Farmers Bank. Union Bank, with 16 per cent of the deposits, 
anks third among the eight banks that operate in Huron County. The 
three largest banks hold over 57 per cent of the total deposits in 
th 
e county. Following its acquisition of Farmers Bank, Union Bank, 
IJith 20.4 per cent of the deposits, will be the second largest bank 
Pirating in Huron County; the three largest banks then will hold over 
Per cent of the total deposits in the county. 
In my judgment, the effect of the acquisition of Farmers Bank 
y Union Bank on competition cannot realistically be characterized as 
0 t U y "slightly adverse". The transaction is, in my view, clearly 
anticompetitive. Further, I regard the elimination of Farmers Bank as 
n al-ternative source of banking services as totally unnecessary and as 

174 
-2-
a detriment to the banking convenience and needs of the Monroeville 
community. The residents of the Monroeville area already have easy 
access to the offices of Union Bank; in addition, Union Bank could 
establish de novo branches in or near Norualk, which would afford 
added convenience for the residents of Monroeville. I see no benefits 
the public that will flow from the transaction to offset the anti-
competitive consequences. 
X would deny the application. 
January 19, 1970 

M 
Item No. 3 
1/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
the Matter of the Application of 1 
t 
PEOPLES TRUST OF NEW JERSEY 
1 
approval of merger with 
' 
Lee Trust Company 
' 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1020(c)), an application by Peoples Trust of 
Jersey, Hackensack, Neu Jersey, a State member bank of the Federal 
lie 
v s*rve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
* and Fort Lee Trust Company, Fort Lee, New Jersey, under the charter 
name of Peoples Trust of New Jersey. As an incident to the merger, 
the 
two offices of Fort Lee Trust Company would become branches of the 
G-ulting bank. Notice of the proposed merge::, in form approved by 
the 
e Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the fn 
factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
0lnPtroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
n d the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Plr°Posed merger, 

176 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
e^tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Nev; York pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 19th day of January 1970. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 
/signed/ Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Kenneth A. ICenyon, 
Deputy Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY PEOPLES TRUST OF NEW JERSEY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
FORT LEE TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, New Jersey 
("Peoples Trust"), with total deposits of $497 million, has applied, 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger let 
(12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's 
Prior approval of the merger of that bank with Fort Lee Trust 
c°nipany, Fort Lee, New Jersey ("Fort Lee Bank"), which has deposits 
$31 m i l l i o n . T h e banks x^ould merge under the charter and name 
Peoples Trust, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
an incident to the merger, the two offices of Fort Lee Bank would 
kscome branches of Peoples Trust, increasing the number of its offices 
to 23. 
Competition. - With the exception of two recently opened 
Ranches of Peoples Trust (in Essex and Morris Counties), all offices 
Peoples Trust and Fort Lee Bank are in Bergen County (population 
9] i 
S000), Peoples Trust operates its head office and four of its 
2 
U branches in Haclcensack (population 36,000), about five miles north-
West of Fort Lee (population 33,000), the site of Fort Lee Bank's head 
figures are as cf December 31, 1968 

178 
-2-
°ffice and sole branch. Peoples Trust has one branch within 2.3 miles, 
and four other branches within 4 miles, of Fort Lee. The only other 
banking office in the community is the sole office of First National 
Bank in Fort Lee (deposits, $29 million); an application for a State 
charter for a new bank to be headquartered in Fort Lee is pending. 
Peoples Trust is precluded by the home-office-protection 
Mature of State law from establishing a de novo branch in Fort Lee, 
impediment that appears likely to remain for some time. The bank 
d°es> however, derive some business from the community; its total 
loans and deposits derived from Fort Lee equal 8.0 per cent and 7.8 
P e r cent, respectively, of the total loans and deposits of Fort Lee 
Bn 1 
and the First National Bank in Fort Lee combined. The proposed 
merger would, therefore, eliminate competition between Peoples Trust 
and port Lee Bank. The success of Peoples Trust in generating 
business in Fort Lee must be attributed in no small part, however, 
to 
the lack of competitive effort by Fort Lee Bank and its failure 
to Provide a reasonable range of banking services. Fort Lee Bank, for 
Sample, has only three trust accounts and its lending, particularly 
0t*sumer lending, is confined generally to depositors; further, 
a] j.1 
°ugh the bank is located in an important residential area, nearly 
15 
Per cent of its loan portfolio is made up of loans to brokers, and 
Only o 
^ per cent consists of instalment loans. It is also noteworthy, 
n assessing the competitive effects of the proposed merger, that 
°ut three-fourths of the working population of Fort Lee commutes 
New York City and thus has many convenient banking options. 

1613 
Peoples Trust, the largest of 25 commercial banks operating 
in Bergen County, holds 27.4 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
i u 
county; the five largest banks in the county hold 69.G per cent 
the depositsi Fort Lee Bank, uith 1.7 per cent of the county!s 
commercial bank deposits, ranks tenth in this respect. The concentra-
tion of banking resources in Bergen County is somewhat high, but the 
significance of this factor is reduced markedly, in the Board's 
Judgment, by a recent change in Hew Jersey law. 
Until July 17, 1959, a bank in ITew Jersey could establish 
j 
Hov<d branches in the municipality in which it was headquartered; 
in the case of any other municipality in the county in which it was 
headquartered, a bank could not establish a cie novo branch if the head 
°£fice or a branch office of another bank was located there. The 
e2tablichment of out-of-county branches was prohibited.. Hew Jersey law 
now permits a bank to establish a de novo branch in the banking 
district in which it is headquartered, subject, however, to a home-
°ffice-protection feature for all municipalities and to a branch-
°^ice-protection feature for municipalities with populations under 
^>500; intra-district mergers are also permissible. 
Bergen County, together with Passaic County and five other 
counties, comprise Hew Jersey's First Banking District. There are 
°even banks in Passaic County and more than 50 banks in the other 
c°unties making up the First Banking District, exclusive of Bergen 
G°unty; many of these banks are large and aggressive enough to be 

-5-
lNl 
considered as potential entrants into Bergen County through the 
establishment of de novo branches. Indeed, on the date the new branch 
banking lav/ became effective, three out-of-county banks' applications 
for the establishment of four de novo branches in Bergen County were 
approved, and sis: such applications from three other banks were pending. 
Bergen County and Passaic County comprise the Paterson-
C1 ifton-Passaic Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("Paterson 
oMCA"). in view of their economic nexus, and in light of the above-
described changes in New Jersey law regulating branch banking, it is 
concluded that these two counties form the most realistic market for 
Sauging the competitive effects of the merger of Peoples Trust and 
Fort Lee Banks. Peoples Trust, with 16.6 per cent of the deposits, is 
the largest of 32 commercial banks in the Paterson SMSA; Fort Lee Bank 
holds about 1 per cent of the deposits in the area and ranks sixteenth 
i n size. The five largest banks in the Paterson SMSA hold 61 per cent 
the area's total commercial bank deposits. 
The effect of the merger of Peoples Trust and Fort Lee Bank 
° n competition would be adverse, but not substantially adverse. The 
Proposed transaction should not be approved, therefore, unless there 
potential benefits for the public interest that at least counter-
balance the adverse competitive effect. See 34 Fed. Reg, 11414 
(july 10, 1969); 12 C.F.R. 5 250.132. 

-5-
lNl 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors uith respect to Peoples Trust are generally satisfactory, 
except the bank's capital needs to be strengthened. Peoples Trust is 
fully capable of increasing its capital and, it is expected, will do 
S o in the near future. Thus, the banking factors uith respect to 
Peoples Trust follouing its proposed merger uith Fort Lee Bank uould 
be satisfactory. 
The banking factors as they relate to Fort Lee Bank are 
reasonably satisfactory, except the bank has a serious management 
Accession problem, the resolution of uhich is made exceedingly 
difficult by urangling among the stockholders. Fort Lee Bank has been 
Plagued for several years by stockholder dissension, uhich has resulted 
in 
2/ 
proxy fights and litigation concerning various matters.— 
The 
attendant publicity has been harmful for the bank. In particular, the 
strife from uhich the bank has suffered has made the hiring and 
detention of able management personnel very difficult. Since January 
1964 Fort Lee Bank has had four chief executive officers. The incumbent 
President took the post on a temporary basis in 1966 and has done a 
^editable job in trying circumstances; houever, he is 72 years of age 
and has stated that if the proposed merger is not approved he will 
resign. 
Proceedings in one such lausuit have been stayed pending the 
utcome of the Board's action on the application to merge Fort Lee 
u t 0 Peoples Trust. It is understood that the parties have agreed 
^at the suit will be dismissed if the application is approved. 

-6-
During the last several years the Board, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, and the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking 
have endeavored to impress upon the directors of Fort Lee Bank the 
necessity for resolving the bank's problems. The Board concludes that, 
because of the dissension surrounding Fort Lee Bank, it is extremely 
unlikely that a capable chief executive officer could be hired and 
stained; further, if the merger proposal were disapproved stockholder 
dissension,- and revival of the litigation mentioned above, would 
Nafce meaningful merger negotiations with the other banks virtually 
iwpossible.^ 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of the 
merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the area 
served by Fort Lee Bank. 
As noted earlier, Fort Lee Bank does not provide a reasonable 
range of banking services. It is understood that this shortcoming is 
° ne reason that prompted a local group to apply for a State charter to 
establish a new bank in the community. 
The Board understands that there was considerable difficulty in 
^taining 
stockholder approval of the proposed merger with Peoples 
Trust. Ten stockholders own or control 52 per cent of Fort Lee 
Bank's outstanding stock. It is understood that a small number of 
J-ndividuals in this group who own or control about 21 per cent of the 
ank's stock and who voted in favor of the merger with Peoples 
;^ust now would not vote to support any merger of Fort Lee Bank. 
Ownership of the bank's remaining shares (48 per cent) is scattered 
em°ng more than 100 stockholders. State law requires that a merger 
freemen t be approved by the stockholders of each bank holding at 
a s t two-thirds of the capital stock entitled to vote. 
The 
New Jersey Commissioner of Banking reached essentially the 
Sarne conclusion. 

-6-
The replacement of Fort Lee Bank by offices of Peoples Trust 
Would provide a convenient source of full banking services for the Fort 
community. The weight that can properly be accorded this considera-
tion is limited, however, by the fact that full banking services are 
Presently available without undue inconvenience at banking offices near 
^ e community, including some that are operated by Peoples Trust. 
The failure of Fort Lee Bank to provide a reasonable range of 
banking services can be attributed, at least in part, to the dissension 
Its stockholders, which has resulted in a management problem for the 
bank that spans several years. It would benefit the community if this 
pr°blem were resolved. 
Summary and conclusion. - The effect of the merger of 
Copies Trust and Fort Lee Bank on competition would be adverse. It is 
judgment of the Board, however, that the adverse effect on competi-
tion would be offset by the effect of the transaction in resolving the 
Management problem of Fort Lee Bank, a problem the Board regards as 
Serious, in the light of the history of dissension among the bank's 
stockholders. and one which cannot be readily resolved except through 
^rgej-^ There are a number of banks in New Jersey's First Banking 
S t r i c t with which Fort Lee Bank might merge with little or no adverse 
efj;ect on competition. The Board believes, however, that the prospects 
agreement on such a merger in the near future are poor. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
b e aPproved. 
^nuary 19, 1970 

1 s t 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I am not persuaded that the merger of Peoples Trust and Fort 
Bank will not have a "substantially adverse" effect on competition, 
within the meaning of section 7 of the Clayton Act.—^ Houever, in my 
Judgment there are no potential benefits for the public interest that 
0j-fset even the "adverse" effect on competition that my colleagues 
acknov;ledge the transaction will have. 
The majority's rationale for approving the merger is that, 
k°cause of stockholder dissension, there appears to be no feasible 
s°lution to the management succession problem of Fort Lee Bank other 
fcfi 
merger with Peoples Trust. The majority's reasoning is bottomed 
° n fche assumption that stockholders of Fort Lee Bank who own or control 
m° r e than one-third of the bank's shares would be so irrational as to 
bl°clc 
merger of the bank with an institution other than Peoples 
Tr G t in the face of a management succession problem that, if not 
o 1 
solved, might adversely affect the bank's earnings and, perhaps, 
Je°pardi2e the stockholders' investment in the bank. In my view, such 
a n assumption is not only unwarranted,it is irrelevant. 
1/ o 
ij ."ee> 
United States v. Von's Grocery Co., 304 U.S. 270 (1966); 
" ^ ^ i i t a t e s v. Pr.bst Brewing Co., 234 U.S. 545 (1966). 
2/ 
j ,IrJ P° i n t of fact, stockholders owning 29,113 shares of Fort Lee 
Po \ s 32,000 shares outstanding voted in favor of the merger with 
° S T* u c t> holders of 1,984 shares voted against the proposal and 
in 
Ghares 
not vote. The three stockholders who voted 
Vot 
°^ t h e m G r 2 e r hut yho would not, it is claimed, henceforth 
£a j2 
favor of any merger, own or control, 6,720 shares of Fort Lee 
°f 5,stock* A merger by the bank requires the approval of the holders 
21,334 shares. 

185 
-2-
Fort Lee Bank is in sound financial condition. Its earnings 
are good. It is located in a very desirable area. I find it difficult 
to believe that its management succession problem cannot be resolved 
except through merger; but even if this were found to be the case, 
there are, as the majority acknowledges, a number of other banks xvith 
v«Uch it might merge with little or no adverse effect on competition. 
In my view, it is not justifiable under the Bank Merger Act 
to approve an anticompetitive merger of financially sound banks 
simply because the shareholders of one of the banks are at loggerheads 
(for whatever reason), or even because the shareholders and directors 
have failed to provide for successor management. Indeed, the approval 
of 
an anticompetitive merger on such grounds establishes a precedent 
T,hich, if n ot overturned, will seriously frustrate realization of the 
Purposes of the Bank Merger Act. 
In essence, the majority's decision in this case stands for 
th 
e Proposition that bank shareholders, by failing to provide for suc-
Cessor management, will thereupon be permitted to sell a financially 
s°und bank on terms most advantageous to their personal interests, 
Provided they contend that they are unwilling to take any other course 
of 
action. The highest bidder, of course, is likely to be a large bank 
one that stands to gain considerably in terms of market leverage 
Put another way, the majority's decision in this case rewards, and 
J indeed, Peoples Trust is one of Fort Lee Bank's nearest competitors 
the largest bank in both Bergen County and the Paterson SMSA. 

186 
-3-
•' -v 
therefore encourages, shareholder intransigence (whether real or 
Professed) of a sort that is conducive to bank mergers that are most 
^compatible with the purposes of the Bank Merger Act. 
In sum, I find nothing in the record before me that supports 
a conclusion that benefits for the public are likely to flow from the 
Merger of Fort Lee Bank and Peoples Trust, a transaction that, admit-
tedly> will be anticompetitive. Rather, I-conclude, for the reasons 
heretofore set out, that the public interest intended by Congress to be 
Protected by the Bank Merger Act will be harmed, and the efficacy of the 
A c t itself 
put in jeopardy. There is ample evidence, to be sure, that 
tlle shareholders of the two banks will benefit, particularly those of 
^ 0 r t Lee Bank, who x/ill garner a handsome profit. But that, of course, 
is not the test under the law. 
Accordingly, I would deny the application. 
January 19, 1970. 

187 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
•• 
• F 
T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
1/19/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL COHOtSPONDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
January 19, 1970 
CONFIDENn-TAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York., New York. 1.0045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York listed below for the period January 8 through 
December 31, 1970, as reported in your letter of 
January 
1970: 
Annua1 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Robert G. Link 
Sr. Vice Pres. 
$43,500 
David E. Bodner 
Vice President 
31,000 
Allen R. Bivens 
Asst. Counsel 
21,000 
Richard D. Coopersmith 
Asst. Counsel 
21,000 
Mary J. Kodgers 
Asst. Counsel 
21,000 
All salaries listed above ara as fixed by your 
Board of Directors 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenne th A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

lilH 
BOARD OF DOVERNO R5 
O r THE 
FEDERAL. R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
3 D S S I 
Item No. 
1/19/70 
O F F I C E 
CF' T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
January 1.9, 1970. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
Ho use e f Repr e s en ta t iv es, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your telegram, received Friday, 
Regarding rate ceilings on time and savings deposits. The Board 
Recognizes, of course, that in establishing ceilings on rates 
member banks jv.ay pay for consumer deposits it must give full 
consideration to competitive relationships with nonbank thrift 
titur ions , We have maintained relatively low ceilings on 
these deposits in order to guard against an outflow from such 
thrift ins tir.t r.ions ir:to member bank.'- Lo the detriment of the 
mortgage market. With this in mind, I thit-k it is safe to say 
that any change the Board may make in these ceilings will look 
to the preservation of a differentia' in rates as. between non-
®ahk thrift institutions and member banks. 
The situation we face today, however, poses the question 
^aether ceilings for both banks and nonbank thrift institutions 
fc*ay n0t: \JC too far below other market, rates. If the thrift 
Restitutions are able to pay higher iar.es, ceilings should be 
Raised not onJ.y in fairness to savers but also to prevent 
further flows of funds out of the thrift institutions into 
•»ther higher-)ielding investments, which would further reduce 
funds available to finance housing. And higher rates paid to 
savers by institutions generally, of course, would increase the 
pool of savings f o r investment in mortgages. 
The ceilings on larger certificates of deposit, which 
a r e clearly out of touch with current market rates, raise other 
Questions largely unrelated to the mortgage market. As you know, 
ingress in 1966 authorized different ceilings fur these deposits, 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-2-
in view cf their different economic impact, and particularly having 
mind the possibility of permitting changes in these ceilings 
without tightening the mortgage market:, which is so directly 
affected by ceilings on smaller deposits. 
The Board has been meeting with the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board and the Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation to consider possible changes in rate 
ceilings, 
If the Board concludes that a change should be made 
in ceilings applicable to member banks, you will be informed 
Promptly. 
Sincer ly your s , 
C 
*
1
»
(
r
v 
Wm. McC. Ma r tin, Jr. 
