MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 9, 1970 

3119 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, November 9, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Ormsby and Miss Ryon of the Office 
of the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed developments with respect to the pending 
bank holding company legislation. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

31U0 
11/9/70 
-2-
Staff members who had been present for the purpose of the weekly 
review then left the room and the following entered: 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
American Bank and Trust Company. The Board authorized the 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval on October 22, 
1970, of the application of American Bank and Trust Company, Lansing, 
Michigan, to consolidate with The National Bank of Eaton Rapids, 
Eaton Rapids, Michigan. Copies are attached under Item No. 1, along 
with the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson, Maisel, and 
Brimmer. 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares. After discussion, during 
which some apprehension was expressed with regard to the holding company's 
debt outstanding, the Board approved unanimously the application of 
Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to acquire 
shares of the successor by merger to The Merchants and Farmers Bank 
of Galax, Galax, Virginia, with the understanding, however, that the 
order to be drafted for the Board's consideration reflecting that 
decision would contain appropriate reference to the indebtedness and 
that the concern regarding it would be indicated in the letter trans-
mitting the order to the applicant. 

3121 
11/9/70 
-3-
Questions raised by Senator Proxmire. After several suggestions 
had been made for changes in a draft that had been distributed, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to Senator Proxmire in the form attached 
as Item No. 2, in reply to his letter of October 6, 1970, in which he 
had asked several questions relating generally to the role of monetary 
policy in relation to prospective economic and financial developments. 
S. 4244. The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Office 
of Management and Budget, in the form attached as Item No. 3, with 
regard to S. 4244, a bill to establish a Federal Commodity Account 
Insurance Corporation, and amendments to the bill proposed by the 
Department of Agriculture. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3 1 2 2 
Item No. 1 
11/9/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
AMERICAN BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
1 
for approval of consolidation with 
1 
The National Bank of Eaton Rapids 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF 
CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by American 
Bank and Trust Company, Lansing, Michigan, a State member bank of 
the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
consolidation of that bank with The National Bank of Eaton Rapids, 
Ha to n Rapids, Michigan. Notice of the proposed consolidation, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the record, 
including reports received pursuant to the Act on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed consolidation, in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, 

31^3 
-4-
It is hereby ordered, F.or the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said consolidation shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 
9, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3124 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF AMERICAN BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATION WITH 
THE NATIONAL BANK OF EATON RAPIDS 
STATEMENT 
American Bank and Trust Company, Lansing, Michigan ("American 
Bank"), with deposits of $147 million, has applied, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
of the consolidation of that bank and The National Bank of Eaton 
Rapids, Eaton Rapids, Michigan ("Eaton Rapids Bank"), which has deposits 
of $8.4 million. The banks would consolidate under the charter and 
name of American Bank, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System, 
As an incident to the consolidation, the two offices of Eaton Rapids 
Bank would become offices of American Bank, increasing the number of its 
offices to 13. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Both 
American Bank and Eaton Rapids Bank maintain all of their offices in 
the Lansing Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area (SMSA) consisting 
of Clinton, Eaton, and Ingham Counties. The Lansing SMSA represents 
the relevant geographic market within which the competitive effects 
of the proposed merger are to be considered. 

-2-
American Bank is the second largest of 16 banks in the market, 
holding about 19 per cent of Lansing SMSA deposits. It maintains its 
head office and seven of its branches in the City of Lansing, Ingham 
County (population 137,000); its three other offices are all located 
within a radius of six miles from Lansing. The largest bank in the area, 
and American Bank's principal competitor, is the Michigan National Bank, 
which has total deposits in excess of $1 billion, $297 million of which 
are derived from the Lansing SMSA, and represent 44 per cent of total 
deposits held by all banks in that area. The third largest area bank, 
Bank of Lansing, has deposits of $126 million, representing 14 per cent 
of total area deposits. 
Eaton Rapids Bank, with deposits of $8.4 million, is the 
eleventh largest bank in the Lansing SMSA, controlling only one per 
cent of area deposits. It maintains both of its offices in Eaton County; 
its head office in Eaton Rapids, 17 miles south of Lansing, and a branch 
in Dimondale, which is nine miles north of Eaton Rapids. 
American Bank's primary service area consists of the communities 
°f Lansing and East Lansing and the area immediately surrounding its 
branch office locations. The primary service area of Eaton Rapids Bank 
encompasses an area with 
a radius of approximately three to five miles 
from 
Eaton Rapids and one to two miles around Dimondale. American Bank 
draws approximately one to two per cent of its deposits and two per cent 
°f it8 loans from the service areas of Eaton Rapids Bank. While the 
amount of such business is not insignificant when compared with the 

-3-
3126 
total deposits and loans derived by Eaton Rapids Bank from its own 
area, such business appears to originate primarily with residents of 
the Eaton Rapids area who commute to Lansing for employment. In view 
of the number and size of other alternatives available to such persons 
in Lansing, the anticompetitive effect of the elimination of such compe-
tition as presently exists between the two merging banks i8 regarded as 
minimal. The potential for increased future competition between the two 
institutions would seem to be somewhat limited by the size of Eaton 
Rapids Bank and by the office protection features of Michigan branch 
banking laws. The Board thus concludes that the competitive effects of 
the proposal will be no more than slightly adverse. 
The record in this matter reflects that three other banks have 
indicated interest in consolidating with Eaton Rapids Bank and that at 
least one of these, not presently competing in the Lansing SMSA, has 
made an offer which was rejected by Eaton Rapids management. While 
the existence of such alternatives might have significant bearing on 
the Boardfs decision if the present proposal involved serious anti-
competitive effects, the Board does not find their existence deter-
minative in this case* Applicants proposal involves potential 
competitive consequences that, in the judgment of the Board, are at 
most slightly adverse. Under these circumstances, the proposed 
consolidation* viewed in the light of its probable competitive con-
sequences, is regarded as consistent with the public interest. 
Certainly, the slightly adverse competitive consequences that may be 

31^7 
-4-
anticipated do not justify the Board's substituting its judgment for that 
of Eaton Rapids Bank's management regarding the merits of the alternatives 
for merger, particularly in view of the benefits to the convenience and 
needs of the Eaton Rapids and Dimondale communities which, as discussed 
bel ow, would result from consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to each of the banks proposing to consolidate are 
reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting 
bank. 
Convenience and needs of the ccmmunities to be served. - The 
consolidation would have no material effect on banking convenience and 
needs of the communities in which American Bank presently operates offices. 
American Bank, the area's second largest bank, would offer a 
greater variety of services than Eaton Rapids Bank now provides. These 
would include larger lending limits, fiduciary services, a credit card 
Plan, and a greater variety of deposit services. Although these services 
are already available from the larger Lansing Banks, the addition of a 
convenient alternative source of full banking services would benefit the 
convenience and needs of the Eaton Rapids and Dimondale areas. As 
already indicated, American Bank is precluded by the restrictions of 
State law from branching de novo into the area. 

-5-
3128 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, any 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed consolidation would be slight, 
and would be outweighed by the benefits to the banking convenience and 
" i • 
• 
• 
needs of the Eaton Rapids and Dimondale communities. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
November 9, 1970 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
By its action, the Board's majority approves a proposal 
which will eliminate present competition, increase banking con-
centration in the Lansing area, and provide no significant benefits 
to the public affected. Moreover, it does so despite the strongest 
evidence that an alternative merger has been proposed to Eaton Rapids 
Bank which, if consummated, would permit another significant partici-
pant in the market, leading toward increased competition and decreased 
concentration. 
As we understand the majority's attempted justification of 
this action, it is based on the conclusion that the adverse effects on 
competition are within tolerable limits, and that, under those con-
ditions, management's judgment with respect to the interests of the 
banks involved should prevail. In our view, this is an incorrect 
construction of the Board's statutory responsibility to protect the 
Public interest. We would deny the application. 
The standards of the Bank Merger Act are stated in terms 
°f limitations on the Board's discretionary authority to approve an 
anticompetitive bank merger. Specifically, the Board Is precluded by 
the Act from approving any merger which would violate the antimonopoly 
Provisions of § 2 of the Sherman Act. It is also prohibited from 
approving any proposal which would restrain trade in violation of 
§ 7 of the Clayton Act--unless it finds such anticompetitive effects 

-2-
3130 
to be clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
The fact that the Board is specifically prohibited from 
approving certain types of mergers clearly does not mean that it must 
or should approve all others. It simply means that in cases outside 
the forbidden categories, the Board has discretion, which it must 
exercise reasonably, responsibly, and in accordance with the public 
interest. In every case, Board decisions must be based on the public 
interest, as determined under criteria set forth in the Act. The 
Board does not perform its statutory role if it determines merely 
that the proposal does not violate antitrust laws, and, having so 
found, permits the greater public good to become subordinated to 
management prerogatives. Our role is not merely that of an anti-
trust screen, but of a regulatory agency entrusted with responsibility 
for determining the public interest with respect to a proposed merger. 
With that goal clearly before us, the ultimate question 
for Board resolution is whether, considering all relevant circumstances, 
the proposed merger will be to the advantage or disadvantage of the 
public. If the former, the application should be approved; if the 
latter, it should be denied. Applying those standards to the record 
before us, we find that consummation of the proposal would eliminate 
competition between the merging banks, particularly with respect to 
those residents of the Eaton Rapids area (the majority of the area's 

3131 
-3-
labor force) who commute to employment in Lansing. Further, in the 
greater Lansing area, which includes the area served by Eaton Rapids 
Bank, two banks - American Bank and the larger Michigan National Bank -
control 63 per cent of deposits. The proposed merger will add to that 
concentration. Apart from the question of whether or not these adverse 
competitive effects are so serious as to violate antitrust standards, 
it cannot be doubted that they are negative considerations in deter-
mining the public interest with respect to the proposal. Nor can it 
be said that the public will be measurably benefitted by access, at 
locations of Eaton Rapids Bank, to services already available at 
offices of American Bank which are convenient to a large portion of the 
residents served by those locations. 
Finally, to the extent that management of Eaton Rapids Bank 
might 
determine- that the bank shall not continue independent 
operations, there is evidence that the bank has received a merger offer, 
equally as attractive financially, from a majcr bank outside the area. 
That proposal would involve none of the anticompetitive effects of the 
present proposal; in fact, it would offer the area the services of a 
major new competitive alternative. 
On the record before us, it is clear that consummation of the 
merger of American Bank and Eaton Rapids Bank would not be in the 
public interest, and we would therefore deny the application. 
November 9, 1970. 

3 1 3 2 
Item No. 2 
11/9/70 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
November 17, 1970 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
Vice Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
United States Senate 
Washington, D.C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
I am writing in further reply to your letter of October 6 
in which you addressed a number of questions to the Board pertaining 
to desired future developments in key areas of the economy, and in 
the financial conditions that might' best assure recovery in these 
sectors and healthy expansion in the economy generally. 
As you well know, the behavior of the economy is conditioned 
by many factors outside the monetary sphere, such as Federal tax and 
expenditure policies, credit programs of the various Federal agencies, 
and the nature of wage-price decisions in private sectors of the 
economy. 
But financial conditions, which are heavily influenced by 
monetary policy, are certainly an important factor influencing the 
economy's performance. 
Let me turn to your questions in the order in which they have 
been posed. 
(1) It is clear that homebuilding activity should rise sub-
stantially from current levels during the course of 1971, both for the 
sake of a healthy economy and an orderly recovery in the industry. 
Housing starts have already risen sharply from the second quarter 1970 
low to an annual rate of about 1-1/2 million units in the third quarter, 
and we believe that a further uptrend is likely in the year or so ahead. 
Such a trend has been made possible by the recent improvement in avail-
ability of mortgage funds, which reflects the reduction in market 
interest rates and markedly larger inflows of funds to depository 

3133 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
-2-
institutions at the higher ceiling rates they could offer. The easing 
in markets has in large part reflected the shift this year to a policy 
of moderate monetary expansion. 
(2) Like homebuilding, the capital spending of state and 
local governments is an area in which increased activity is both desir-
able and likely in 1971. The improved availability of funds at banks, 
in combination with a moderation of business loan demands, has already 
led to a more receptive market for "municipal" securities, and such 
security offerings have risen noticeably in recent months. A continued 
large flow of credit to state and local governments should prove 
possible during 1971. 
Bank deposits are likely to continue to grow 
while the external financing demands of business are likely to be 
smaller than in recent years as the pace of business investment spending 
continues to moderate; further expansion of bank investments in munic-
ipal securities can therefore be reasonably expected. 
(3) Monetary policy can over time strengthen the willingness 
and ability of consumers to resume a more normal level of spending in 
relation to income in two chief ways. 
First, the moderation of price 
advances in response to a moderate monetary policy will tend to make 
consumers more confident of their future budgets, and hence encourage 
current spending on goods and services. Many of the surveys of consumer 
buying intentions taken in recent years suggest that consumer resistance 
to price increases is an important factor affecting their spending. 
Secondly, a moderate monetary policy can encourage the resumption of a 
sustainable pace of economic growth. 
The accompanying improvement in 
employment opportunities should limit uncertaincies as to future job 
and income prospects and thereby encourage consumers to spend more 
liberally. 
It might be pointed out that the large recent increase in 
savings in the form of highly liquid deposits in commercial banks and 
in nonbank savings institutions has placed consumers in a favorable 
position to increase their current consumption. 
(4) Some of the financial conditions that seem consistent 
with the above objectives have already been touched upon in the preceding 
comments. An exact pattern of interest rates and credit flows consistent 
with such objectives is, of course, difficult to describe in advance, 
depending as it will on credit demands from the Federal Government and 
other sectors of the economy, on asset preferences of investors and 
savers, and on the degree to which inflationary expectations are dampened. 
However, as inflationary expectations abate and as the current huge volume 
of corporate bond issues overhanging the market is worked off, long-term 
interest rates should be moving downwards. 
In general, the re-emergence 

3134 
/ 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
-3-
of a larger role for financial institutions as savings intermediaries 
than existed in 1969 and early 1970 may lead toward a narrowing of the 
spread of long-term interest rates over short-rates, as banks and other 
institutions obtain relatively liquid funds from savers and investors 
and make them available for relatively long-term purposes to state and 
local governments, home buyers, and others. 
(5) As inflationary attitudes are dampened interest rales 
should tend to decline, particularly in long-term markets. 
But the 
extent and duration of any interest rate decline will depend heavily 
on the strength and speed of renewed economic expansion, for this will 
affect (a) lenders' attitudes toward the present and prospective structure 
of interest rates and (b) the strength of credit demands from borrowers 
pressing upon the markets. 
(6) Keeping inflationary tendencies under control, while 
encouraging the resumption of sustainable expansion in economic activity, 
represents the most fundamental contribution monetary policy can make to 
relieving pressures on corporate liquidity. More specifically, the 
course of monetary policy over recent months—with monetary aggregates 
expanding, short-term interest rates dropping, and bank credit readily 
available—has contributed to the orderly functioning of financial 
markets, to the ability of corporations to improve their debt, structure 
by issuing long-term bonds and repaying short-term indebtedness, and to 
the ability of businesses to obtain bank commitments when necessary to 
shore up their financial positions. 
With the restructuring of debt and 
as resumed economic expansion leads to an improvement in internal cash 
flows, pressures on corporate liquidity will tend to abate. 
As you have pointed out, the questions posed by your letter 
are intrinsically very difficult. 
Answers to these and other perplexing 
issues facing your Committee will inevitably reflect emerging events, 
including actions of the Congress and the Administration. 
I hope that 
the responses by the Board that I am conveying in this letter, while 
brief and general, will prove of some help to you and your Committee. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

3135 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
11/9/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS • FF1 C IAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 9, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Romme1: 
This refers to your request of October 23, 1970, for views 
on S. 4244, a bill to establish a Federal Commodity Account Insurance 
Corporation, and the amendments to the bill proposed by the Department 
of Agriculture. 
3y letter of July 16, 1970, the Board commented on a draft 
bill upon which S. 4244 appears to have been based. It noted that 
the draft did not appear to involve areas of the Board's supervisory 
or regulatory responsibilities. 
Neither the provisions of S. 4244 
nor the amendments proposed by the Department of Agriculture change 
this situation. 
In its July 16 letter, the Board indicated that it favored 
the purpose of the draft bill, which was to protect by means of a 
Federal insurance program the accounts of customers trading in com-
modities. 
S. 4244 and the proposed amendments are designed for the 
same purpose. 
Because of the Board's lack of expertise in the area of 
commodity exchanges, it seems inappropriate for the Board to comment 
on the details of the bill and the proposed amendments. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
