MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 30, 19 72 

1 7 1 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 30, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1J 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Board 
presently being considered by the Congress. 
At the conclusion of the briefing, Governor Mitchell stated 
that he would be on vacation for the next several weeks and he wanted 
to convey his thoughts to the Board on the recently completed hearings 
on guidelines for bank holding company formations. 
In general, he agreed 
1J Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1720 
6/30/72 
"2-
with the guidelines submitted at the hearing by the American Bankers 
Association, and he thought it desirable to take action as promptly as 
possible to correct the misunderstanding in the trade as to what the 
guidelines were intended to accomplish. Additionally, in order to keep 
the Board informed as to the current state of the market, he thought it 
desirable that the Reserve Banks report to the Board the terms of all 
bank stock loans of which they become aware. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
