ippytls 
PR 609 
(
R ev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 19, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
; i ' ' 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
a I 
1/ 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
^ ^ 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

2 8 6 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 19, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
T f 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
1_/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary, Office 
of the Secretary 
Miss Ormsby, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Ryon, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
An economic and financial review of the kind customarily given 
prior to Federal Open Market Committee meetings was presented. 
Copies 
°f the statistical charts and tables prepared for the review have been 
t U n . 
- 
. , , . 
. 
• -i 
. 
' v 
• 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings; 
these were also made available to all Board members. 
In connection with a review by Mr. Cardon of legislative develop-
;•••-.:• y iiv ?-iji;-incli i 
t /ic; 
il'oarci a^jX 
\ 
~ 
^ents, Mr. Holland indicated that the Federal Home Loan Bank Board had 
|| 
si 
m 
U 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

10/19/70 
-2-
raised objections, on several grounds, to enrolled bill S. 3822 that 
would provide insurance for member accounts in credit unions. 
The 
Board's position had been, essentially, that the important issue was 
to obtain the insurance protection despite possible misgivings about 
certain provisions in the bill. 
It was agreed that there was no need to reopen the issue and 
the Board's position should remain as it stood on record. 
One of the questions raised by the FHLBB regarding the enrolled 
bill pertained to the lack of provision for interagency consultation 
concerning maximum rates of interest payable on credit union shares. 
It was suggested that, should any problems arise in this connection, 
the agencies represented on the Interagency Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation could meet with officials of the new agency charged with 
administration of credit union affairs for discussion. 
This was judged 
Preferable to providing membership for the new agency on the Coordinating 
Committee. 
Staff members who had attended particularly for the presenta-
tion of the economic and financial review withdrew at this point and 
other staff members interested in the next succeeding items joined the 
meeting. 
Security Financial Services. The Board authorized the issuance 
°f an order and statement reflecting denial, on October 1, 1970, of the 
application of Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 

2 8 7 0 
10/19/70 
-3-
to acquire shares of Security West Side Bank, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, a 
proposed new bank. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached 
under Item No. 1. 
H.R. 15073. The Board unanimously approved a letter respond-
ing to a request of the Office of Management and Budget for the Board's 
views regarding enrolled bill H.R. 15073, which incorporated the foreign 
bank secrecy bill, provisions prohibiting unsolicited mailing of credit 
cards and limiting cardholders' liabilities, and the Fair Credit Reporting 
Act. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board decided that it was not necessary, in reporting on 
the enrolled bill, to reiterate its position, expressed on several 
occasions, opposing a ban on unsolicited mailings of credit cards. 
The accompanying memorandum from Mr. Cardon, dated October 16, 
1970, noted that the title of the enrolled bill relating to credit cards 
amended the Truth in Lending Act, which suggested that the Board would 
have responsibility for prescribing implementing regulations. Mr. Cardon 
assured the Board that the staff was studying the matter. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff attendance. 
Possible broadening of suspension of Regulation Q ceilings. 
In 
reference to the possible suspension of Regulation Q ceilings on large 
cD's with maturities of 90 days or longer, the implications of which 
were discussed in a memorandum from the Division of Research and 

10/19/70 
-4-
Statistics dated October 16, 1970, Chairman Burns outlined reasons for 
action to remove the present restriction on maturity ranges. 
The sus-
pension of ceilings on shorter maturities, which went into effect on 
June 24, had been in a sense a compromise decision reflecting concern 
that CD's might grow too rapidly. As it turned out the strategy had had 
little apparent effect on the growth rate, but had resulted in a concen-
tration of CD's in the shorter maturities. 
That, he suggested, might 
have undesirable consequences. 
Governors Brimmer and Maisel expressed concern that the suspen-
sion of interest rate ceilings on large, long-term CD's, if this step 
were taken in isolation, could have a major impact on banking policy. 
Most banks would, they suggested, regard the suspension as in fact a 
removal and would act accordingly. 
Under these circumstances banks 
would probably feeL less need to maintain liquidity. More specifically, 
they might pay down their reserve-free Eurodollar bases and expand their 
lending activities. 
To forestall a major reaction along these lines on 
the part of banks, some alternative means of restricting bank access to 
funds must be made ready, if not actually put into operation. 
While no Board member was willing to see the Board abandon its 
influence in this field completely, a variety of opinions existed on 
w h a t that view meant in terms of Regulation Q action. 
Some members 
felt that no special reference to the Board's continuing interest and 
intention to act if necessary needed to accompany announcement of a 

2 8 7 2 
10/19/70 
-5-
suspension of rate ceilings. Others favored a general reference to 
that interest and intention in whatever public announcement was made, 
and a third group favored a specific reference to the actions which 
might be taken. 
Some interest was expressed in achieving any necessary restric-
tion through a restructuring of reserve requirements graduated on the 
basis of size. The memorandum from the Division of Research and 
Statistics had been accompanied by a note from the Legal Division sug-
gesting that such a move was legally defensible. 
Governor Maisel sug-
gested that it was particularly important, because of the up-to-now 
cloudy legal status, to alert the banks if such a move were a real 
possibility. 
It was agreed that further discussion of the matter would be 
postponed until a subsequent meeting. 
Eurodollar borrowings. Mr. Solomon noted that some commercial 
banks had begun to consider seriously the desirability of maintaining 
their reserve-free bases in Eurodollar borrowings. At current interest 
rate levels these banks were paying a 1/2 to 1 percentage point premium 
on such borrowings relative to other sources of funds. They were gener-
ally willing to pay some premium, since the base represented in a sense 
an insurance policy, but recent developments—partial pay-downs by two 
major banks and the announcement by a third of its intention to follow 

2 8 7 3 
10/19/70 
-6-
suit--suggested that the premium was becoming too great. Thus, even 
without any action on Regulation Q, the possibility existed of a sub-
stantial repayment of Eurodollar borrowings in the coming months. 
The 
staff was considering possible ways to moderate that outflow if such 
action proved necessary. 
Members of the Board then commented on: 
(1) the question 
whether the Eurodollar market represented a "closed" or "open" system; 
(2) the attractiveness of the Eurodollar market to U.S. investors; 
(3) the relationship of Eurodollar flows to the fundamental U.S. balance 
of payments position; and (4) the significance of heavy European demands 
for their own currencies. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 
10/19/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D; C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
SECURITY FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC.,
 
1 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
• 
Security West Side Bank, Sheboygan,
 
1 
Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
'
 
1 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Security Financial Services, 
Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of Security West Side Bank, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, 
a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner indicated that he would offer no objec-
tion to approval of the application. 

2 8 7 5 
-2-
Notlce of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 5, 1970 <35 Federal Register 12499), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
ments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy 
Of the application was forwarded to the United States Departweat of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 19, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Maisel and Sherrill. 
v ; ? r 
v 
. . 
* 
. . . . 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Z
S
7
6 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SECURITY FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC,, SHEBOYGAN, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
SECURITY WEST SIDE BANK, SHEBOYGAN, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Security Financial Services, Inc., Sheboygan, Wisconsin 
("Applicant
1 ), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
0 f 1956, for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m°
r e 
the voting shares of Security West Side Bank, Sheboygan, 
Wisconsin ("Bank'), a proposed new bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave notice of receipt 
the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the State of 
Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner 
indicated that he would offer no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
fchat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 

-2-
2 8 7 V 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Wisconsin, all of which are 
1/ 
bank holding companies, 
control $3.4 billion of deposits, or 
39.2 per cent of the deposits held by all commercial banks in the 
2/ 
State. 
Applicant, the twelfth largest bank holding company in 
the State, controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $77 mil-
lion, representing approximately 1 per cent of total State deposits. 
.1/ In addition, three holding companies headquartered in Minnesota 
have subsidiary banks in Wisconsin. 
2/ 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
to date. 

2 8 7 8 
-3-
There are five banks in Sheboygan, each of which is a 
subsidiary of one of the area's two registered bank holding companies. 
Applicant's group of two banks holds 51 per cent of the city's total 
commercial bank deposits; Citizens Bancorporation ("Citizens Group") 
controls three banks which hold 49 per cent of such deposits. 
The 
two holding companies control 83 per cent of total Sheboygan County 
deposits. The remaining 17 per cent of county deposits is held by 
nine small banks with deposits ranging from $2 to $7 million. 
The area to be served by Bank lies primarily within the 
western section of the City of Sheboygan and the immediately sur-
rounding area; its only office will be located in an area contiguous 
to the western city limits and adjacent to a major shopping center 
complex. Applicant's lead bank, Security First National 
Bank of Sheboygan, is situated three miles to the east of the pro-
Posed site; its other subsidiary South-West State Bank, is located 
about the same distance southeast. Applicant's lead bank derives a 
substantial amount of business from Bank's proposed service area, 
and the two principal subsidiaries of the Citizens Group, Citizens 
Bank of Sheboygan and North Side State Bank, derive a large per-
centage of their banking business from customers located in this 
area. 
Since the present proposal involves a de novo acquisition, 
there is no existing competition between Bank and Applicant's present 
subsidiaries to be affected thereby. However, Applicant's acquisition 

2 S 7 9 
-4-
of Bank would raise barriers to entry of new competitors into the 
area, thereby perpetuating the present oligopolistic banking 
structure of the Sheboygan area, which has the highest degree of 
banking concentration of any area of comparable size in Wisconsin. 
In two applications involving acquisitions by a Wisconsin bank 
holding company of proposed new banks the Board's Statements 
. commented on the considerations involved in such proposals, as 
follows: 
"If every newly developing need for banking facilities 
which arises in a concentrated 
market were to be filled 
by the market's dominant organization, any meaningful de-
concentration of the market's banking resources would be 
made impossible, and further concentration might be 
encouraged. . . ."37 
* 
ie 
* 
"Determination of the competitive effects of a proposed 
holding company acquisition, whether the proposal is one to 
acquire an existing bank or a new bank to be organized under 
the holding company's direction, turns on the issue of whether 
consummation of the proposal will result in a substantially 
less competitive banking market than is likely to exist or 
develop in the event that the proposal is not consummated. 
In the present case, consummation of the proposal would 
result in expansion of the dominant banking organization in 
Milwaukee County and would tend to preclude entry which 
could lessen the extent of Applicant's dominance in the 
county, and provide competition to offices of Applicant's 
present subsidiaries which serve the immediate area."4/ 
3/ 
4/ 
1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 645, 647. 
1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1024, 1026-1027. 

2 8 8 0 
-2-
Applicant indicates that directors of its lead bank have 
been granted a charter for the proposed new bank and that Bank will 
be opened regardless of action by the Board on this application. 
The extent of future common ownership of Bank cannot be predicted. 
However, some likelihood of dissolution of such common ownership 
will be preserved if Bank does not become a subsidiary of Applicant. 
Consummation of this proposal would raise another barrier to entry, 
thereby lessening the possibility of any significant deconcentration 
of the market through entry by other organizations. 
In view of the 
anticompetitive implications present in this proposal, it is con-
cluded that consummation would have adverse effects on competition 
and banking concentration in the relevant area. 
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served. -
The convenience and needs of customers in those areas in which 
Applicant's present subsidiaries are located would not be affected 
by consummation of this proposal. 
The area proposed to be served by Bank has a population 
of approximately 11,000 and the only banking facility for the area 
is a branch of a subsidiary of the Citizens Group. There is evidence 
of a need for a more convenient banking facility in the general 
vicinity of Bank's projected site near the Town of Kohler. 
However, 
it appears that, notwithstanding the Board's action on this appli-
cation, Bank will be opened and will serve the area. 

These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
application, but do not outweigh the adverse competitive effects 
noted herein. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial 
condition and management of Applicant and both sub-
sidiaries are satisfactory, and the prospects for Applicant and its 
two subsidiary banks are regarded as favorable. 
Bank, as a proposed new bank, has no financial or operating 
history. 
Its management, which would be drawn from Applicant and 
its subsidiaries, would be satisfactory and its prospects favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are con-
sistent with, but lend no significant weight in favor of, approval 
of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the pro-
Posed acquisition would have an adverse effect on competition, 
Without offsetting benefits under the convenience and needs 
factors or banking factors. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposal would not be in the public interest and that the application 
should be denied. 
October 19, 1970. 

2 8 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/19/70 
October 19, 1970 
M r . Wilfred H . Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C . 
20503 
Dear M r . Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report on the 
enrolled bill, H . R . 15073, to amend the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Act to require insured banks to maintain certain 
records, to require that certain transactions in United States 
currency be reported to the Department of the Treasury, and 
for other purposes. 
The Board recommends that the President approve this 
legislation. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F . Burns 
Arthur F . Burns 
