MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 14, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 14, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics If 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Miss Ormsby, and Mrs. Byrn of the 
Office of the Secretary 
An economic and financial review of the kind customarily given 
in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
individual briefings. 
After discussion based on the review, members of the staff 
who had attended for that purpose left the meeting. Other staff members 
entered, including Messrs. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and 
Assistant Secretary; O'Connell, General Counsel; Noble, Assistant General 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

zrm 
9/14/70 
-2-
Counsel; Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion; Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, and supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
Girard Trust Bank. It was reported that the liabilities of 
City Bank of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, had been assumed 
by Girard Trust Bank, also of Philadelphia, that Girard had opened a 
branch last Friday, September 11, at the location of City Bank's only 
office, and that an order and press release had been issued approving 
the assumption of liabilities. 
The Board expressed interest in ascertaining more fully the 
reasons for City Bank's failure and in knowing whether officers of City 
Bank would continue with Girard, and it was understood that the staff 
would provide such information. The Board then ratified by unanimous 
vote the issuance of the order.; 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on September 10, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Bank of Delaware. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting its action on September 1, 1970, approving the 

9/14/70 
-3-
application of Bank of Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware, to merge 
Millsboro Trust Company, Millsboro, Delaware. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Bordentown Banking Company. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order reflecting its action on August 27, 1970, approving the 
application of Bordentown Banking Company, Bordentown Township, New 
Jersey, to merge The First National Bank in New Egypt, New Egypt, 
New Jersey. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
First Holding Company. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting its action on August 17, 1970, 
approving the application of First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First National Bank of Oconomowoc, 
Oconomowoc, Wisconsin. Copies of the order, statement, and dissenting 
statement of Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer are attached 
U n d e r Item No. 3. 
BancOhio Corporation. The application of BancOhio Corporation, 
Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of Akron National Bank and Trust 
Company, Akron, Ohio, was approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, 
with the understanding that documents implementing the Board's action 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration, along with a dissenting 
statement by Governor Robertson. 

• 1 r~,mif% 
9/14/70 
-4-
Report on defense mobilization activities. The annual report 
of the Board to the Joint Committee on Defense Production regarding 
defense mobilization activities was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Committee. A copy of the transmittal letter is attached as 
Item No. 4; a copy of the report has been placed in the Board's files. 
Seminar on foreign operations of U.S. banks. Mr. Robert Solomon 
reported, in a memorandum dated September 11, 1970, on discussions 
held to date by the staff task force established by the Board to design 
a study of an optimum regulatory posture with respect to international 
activities of U.S. banks. The task force recommended that a seminar 
be held this fall, but presented the question whether it should include 
participants from business, banking, and academia or be limited to 
academicians. 
After some discussion, it was decided that the staff would 
arrange a preliminary meeting or meetings with academicians and 
corporate officials, and perhaps also with bankers, with a view to 
defining issues and eventually arranging a seminar in which the Board 
would participate. 
It was understood that Board members would convey 
to Mr. Solomon any suggestions regarding persons who might be invited 
to participate in the meetings. 
United California Bank. Mr. O'Connell reported that United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, was planning to stand behind 
deposit losses at its subsidiary in Basle, Switzerland, with a 

25 77 
9/14/70 
-5-
$30 million guarantee in the form of a letter of credit. United 
California Bank, purportedly at the request of the Swiss Government, 
has asked that the Board make a statement that it found no provision 
in Federal law that would prohibit or inhibit the bank's action. 
After some discussion, it was decided to postpone action on 
this matter until the Board's staff had had time to study further 
the questions involved in responding to the request and present recom-
mendations to the Board. 
One-bank holding company legislation. Senator Sparkman had 
asked for the Board's views on an amendment to H.R. 6778, the one-bank 
holding company bill, that would grant exemptions from the tie-in 
prohibitions if they would disrupt traditional banking practices. 
After discussion, during which Board members expressed the 
view that exemptions should more properly be provided in the statute 
than left to administrative direction, the Board approved unanimously 
a rePly to Senator Sparkman in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Senator Proxmire had requested the Board's views on two 
amendments to H.R. 6778, and a draft of reply supporting both of them 
h ad been distributed. 
The proposed reply was approved unanimously. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 6. 

2578 
9/14/70 
-6-
Governor Robertson noted that although he recognized that the 
Proxmire letter expressed a position regarding a grandfather clause 
that was consistent with the position taken by the Board previously, 
he would like the record to show that he was not in favor of any 
grandfather clause at all. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
O'Connell withdrew at this point. 
Board schedule. In view of prospective absences of Board 
members, and particularly the possibility that a quorum might not be 
available for a period of time, it was suggested that the staff prepare 
for the Board's consideration a proposed delegation of authority that 
would allow the available Board members to take appropriate actions. 
Along the same line, it was agreed that the Vice Chairman and the 
Secretary should review pending cases and other matters carefully to 
determine that only relatively noncontroversial items would be presented 
for consideration during the period when attendance was likely to be 
limited. 
Mr. O'Connell withdrew at this point. 
Staff appointment. The Board approved the appointment of Ralph 
c» Bryant, presently a staff member in the Division of International 
Finance, as Associate Adviser in that Division effective September 21, 
1970, with annual salary at the rate of $23,900. 

2379 
9/14/70 
-7-
Composition of staff. Question was raised about the number 
of officers on the Board's staff in relation to the total complement of 
personnel, and it was understood that Governor Sherrill would submit 
to the other members of the Board a memorandum explaining the situation 
and presenting a rationale in support of his view that the number of 
staff officers was not inappropriate. 
Export-Import Bank. Chairman Burns referred to and discussed 
the background of proposed legislation that would exempt operations of 
the Export-Import Bank from the Federal budget. He noted that the 
Board's views had been requested and that Governor Brimmer had been 
asked to testify. It was his thought that the Board's views should 
be briefly stated and that they should stress the element of fiscal 
discipline as opposed to balance of payments connotations. One possi-
bility, he thought, would be for Governor Brimmer to read into the 
record a letter from the Board and supplement it by additional comments. 
It was understood that material for submission to the Congress 
would be drafted for consideration by the Board next Wednesday. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

25 80 
Item No. 1 
9/14/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SANK OF DELAWARE, 
Wilmington, Delaware 
for approval of merger with 
Millsboro Trust Company, 
Millsboro, Delaware 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Bank of 
Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware, for the Board's prior approval of 
t h e merger with Millsboro Trust Company, Millsboro, Delaware, under 
tlle charter and name of Bank of Delaware, As an incident to the 
merger, the sole office of Millsboro Trust Company would become a 
branch of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in 
aPproved by the Board, has been published as required by 
S aid Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports 
the competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the 
CornPtroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 

2581 
-2-
Corporation. The Board has considered all relevant material contained 
in the record in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, in-
cluding the effect of the proposal on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds that: 
Bank of Delaware (deposits $232 million) is the third 
*argest of 19 commercial banks in Delaware, and controls about 19 per 
C e n t °f total deposits in the State. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1969.) Millsboro Trust Company (deposits $10 million) 
1 8 the only bank in Millsboro (population 1,000), and the fifth 
*argest of six banks competing in southeast Sussex County. The 
nearest office of Bank of Delaware is 20 miles from Millsboro Trust 
C°rcpany, and no significant competition exists between the two banks. 
While Bank of Delaware is permitted by State law to branch into the 
area served by Millsboro Trust Company, such de novo entry is con-
sidered unlikely because of the size of the community, and the 
number of banks presently serving that market. The substitution 
a n a8gressive, full-service bank for a relatively small, unit 
would likely increase competition in southeast Sussex County, 
Without undue adverse effects on competing banks. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consum-
ption of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition 
any relevant area. Considerations relating to the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of both of the proponents 

25S2 
-3-
are regarded as satisfactory. The merger would have no significant 
effect on customers presently served by Bank of Delaware, will make 
possible expansion and improvement of banking and trust services 
offered by Millsboro Trust Company; the greater lending ability of 
the merged bank would assist in meeting the expanding credit 
needs of the area, which is now undergoing economic development, 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposalwould 
in the public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings sum-
marized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the merger so approved shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
a er, or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
UtUess such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 14, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Acting Chairman Mitchell, and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

25 S3 
Item No. 2 
9/14/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
EOPvDENTOWN BANKING COMPANY 
approval of merger with The 
First National Bank in New Egypt 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
t h e Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Bordentovm 
Banking Company, Bordentown Township, New Jersey ("Bordentovm Bank"), 
a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's 
pri-or approval of the merger of that bank and The First National Bank 
i n Wex7 Egypt, New Egypt, New Jersey ("New Egypt Bank"), under the 
charter of Bordentovm Banking Company and under the name Bank of 
In } 
-Jersey. As an incident to the merger, the sole office of New Egypt 
would become the fifth office of the resulting bank. Notice of the 
pr°posed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
Pu*suant to said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
th 
G competitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the 
CornPtroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance 

, 
2584 
-2-
Corpbtaiiorti the Board has considered all relevant material contained 
in the record in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, in-
cluding the effect of the proposal on competition, the financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds 
that: 
Bordentown Bank, with deposits of $28 million, operates 
f°ur offices in Burlington County. New Egypt Bank, with deposits 
mill ion, operates its sole office in adjacent Ocean County. 
^ly the nearest office of Bordentown Bank, seven miles from New 
EgyPt» competes to any extent with New Egypt Bank, and the extent 
such competition is not regarded as significant; the New Egypt 
a r e a is served by branches of four other banks, all of which have 
*arger total deposits than either of the merging banks or the pro-
Posed resulting bank. Under New Jersey law, neither bank could 
branch into the communities served by the other. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
merger would have only a slightly adverse effect on competition. 
On 
consummation of the proposal, the New Egypt community would 
benefit f r o m expanded banking hours and the initiation of fiduciary 
services, a wider variety of instalment and mortgage loans, and 
Various time deposit services. Considerations relating to the 
f J 
nancial condition, management, and prospects of the merging banks 
the resulting bank are consistent with approval of the applica-
fcion. xt is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal 
uid be in the public interest, and that the action should be 
aPProved. 

2585 
-3-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
fche action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 14, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Kaisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
' '"> ' V. " t 
, \ ' i' 
• ,1 'V. y ' i \
.
' , 

2586 
Item No. 3 
9/14/70 
•j ? /<• 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., 
waukesha, Wisconsin, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
rst National Bank of Oconomovoc, 
Uconomowoc, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
lQ42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Holding Company, Inc., 
ukesha, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board* <3 prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
Of J-L 
e voting shares of First National Bank of Oconomowoc, 
Oc°nomowoc, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
h e Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
tested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
aPproval of the application. 

2587 
-2-
i v; ' : • 
i • I 'sEp V 
i 
•: 81 
.•• •' ••' ^B 
Uotide of iredeipt of thi6 dpplidatlbn t^as published in the 
Federal Register on May 29, 1970 (35 Federal Register 8459) pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
B°ard's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Q . i 
er> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. By order of the Board of Governors, September 14, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2588 
a 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST HOLDING COMPANY, INC., WAUKESHA, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF OCONOMOWOC, 
OCONOMOWOC, WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
First Holding Company, Inc., Waukesha, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
80 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of First National Bank of 
Oconomowoc, Oconomowoc, Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
.Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
reciuired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave notice of receipt 
^ the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and requested 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval 
o f the appli c a t i o n < 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
tha t 
the Board shall not approve an acquisition that x^ould result in a 
n°poly o r vouij b e 
furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
n oPoli Z e o r 
t Q 
a t t e m p t 
t o monopolize the business of banking in any 
r t °f the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed 

2559 
-2-
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
b e substantially to lessen competition or to tend to create a monop-
°ly» o r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
Unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. 
In each case, the Board is required to take 
l n t 0 Consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Pr°spects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
°nvenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
the fifth largest bank holding company and banking organization in 
the 
e State of Wisconsin, controlling three banks which hold aggregate 
GP°sits of $130 million, 1.5 per cent of total State deposits. Con-
cation of the proposal would increase Applicant's share of such 
to 1.6 per cent; it would retain its relative position 
° n8 the State's largest banking organizations and bank holding 
CotnPanies. 
Bank, with deposits of $13.9 million, is headquartered in 
°nomowoc (Waukesha County), a city of about 9,000, located 40 miles 
Milwaukee. 
Its only branch is located three miles east of 
n°mowoc in Okauchee. 
It is slightly the larger of two banks in 
n°mowoc, and the largest of eight banks headquartered in the 
^levant* 
market, an area within a radius of about seven miles of 
° m° W o c• 
Also located within the area are a branch of an 

2590 
-3-
million deposit bank, and a recently established branch of one 
°f AppH c a nti s subsidiaries; the latter is discussed in more detail 
hereafter. Bank's deposits equal about 29 per cent of the deposits 
held by the nine banks. 
Applicant and its lead bank, First National Bank of 
Waukesha ($93 million deposits), are headquartered in the City of 
Waukesha, about 18 miles southeast of Oconomowoc and midway between 
Oconomowoc and Milwaukee. Applicant's Other two subsidiaries, The 
First National Bank in Wauwatosa ($29 million deposits) and New 
Berlin State Bank ($7 million deposits), are located 25 miles east 
a n d 28 miles southeast, respectively, of Bank. Of Applicant's 
P r G s e n t subsidiaries, only First National Bank of Waukesha derives 
n y business from the Oconomowoc area, and the amount of such busi-
n e s s reflected in the record ($1.8 million in deposits and $750,000 
i n loans) does not appear competitively significant. 
A complicating factor in analysis of the present proposal 
is that in July of this year First National Bank of Waukesha opened 
a branch office in Summit, a township 3.2 miles southeast of Bank's 
°Cation. 
Because of the proximity to Bank of this branch, there 
is a 
n iwroediate potential for somewhat greater competition between 
ft . 
and Applicant's lead bank than previously existed. The 
l^ination of such competition is a consideration adverse to 
Pproval of Applicant's present proposal. The weight to be assigned 
to thaf i 
c adverse consideration, however, depends upon the significance 

2591 
-4-
°f the competition which would be eliminated, and because of the 
recent date of the branch's establishment little objective data exists 
to document a conclusion with respect to its effectiveness as a com-
petitor in the Oconomowoc area. 
Weighing the evidence which is available, however, the 
Board concludes that the anticompetitive effects of the elimination 
such competition as might develop between Bank and the newly 
established branch are slight, and that, on balance, competitive 
considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although the branch is located at a highway interchange location, 
t h e a r e a surrounding it is primarily farmland. Plans to establish 
a manufacturing facility adjacent to the location have been cancelled. 
Although the branch probably will nevertheless be profitable, it 
PPears unlikely to become a major competitor to the banks in down-
t0V,n Oconomowoc. In assessing the weight to be attributed to this 
c°nsideration, it is also significant that the office in question 
V a s established de novo. Had Applicant first acquired Bank and then 
Sought to establish the branch, it is doubtful that the branch estab-
lishment would have been regarded as anticompetitive, and the Board 
d°es not believe that significant weight should be attached to the 
ct that, by a very small margin, the time sequence has been re-
rsed. Finally, with respect to the long range effects of the 
cposal, it is likely that, as a result of the continuing expansion 
the Milwaukee metropolitan area, the large banking organizations 
ntered i n Milwaukee will have increasing influence on competition 

-5-
throughout Waukesha County. That consideration tends to further 
"Minimize the significance of the prospective competition between 
Bank and the branch, and makes more significant the procompetitive 
effect which the proposal would have in the development of Applicant 
a s a strong regional organization. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
c°nsummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a 
m°nopoly, nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States, and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen 
c°mpetition or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the 
c°untry. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The 
e financial condition of Applicant and of its subsidiaries is 
atisfactory, its management competent, and its prospects favorable. 
pPUcant is in the process of increasing the capitalization of its 
subs in • 
salary banks; in that light, the banking factors as related to 
subsidiaries, are similarly regarded as satisfactory. 
Bank's financial condition is satisfactory, and present 
ma nac> 
Sement is experienced and competent. However, it is likely that 
t h e near future it will be faced with the need to find replace-
ments f 
ror its two principal officers, one of whom is nearing the 
retirement age, and the other has expressed a desire to bee ome 

25<*3 
-6-
less active in Bank's management. While there is no evidence that 
this problem could not be solved without Applicant's assistance, con-
summation of the present proposal would provide a ready and satis-
factory solution. 
; fX•;'.-> t • 
- 
. 
• , ,. 
The Board finds that these considerations provide weight 
toward approval of the application. 
' * ''> 
u 
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served. -
Th convenience and needs of customers of Applicant's present sub-
1 i .;. 'i ' 
. , • •' 
sidiaries would not be significantly affected by the instant 
Proposal. 
Consummation of the proposal would assist Bank in serving 
the larger credit needs of its area, through participations with 
Applicant's other subsidiaries. 
It is also the intention to more 
< ;. .. ... 
, 
a8gressively solicit consumer installment loans, to offer fiduciary 
Services, to reduce or eliminate charges on checking accounts, and 
to extend the banking hours. These changes would provide for greater 
c°nvenience and service to persons banking in downtown Oconomowoc. 
-Y. 
i 
. 
•,/; _ .> . . ... , _ 
These considerations provide additional weight toward 
PProval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
fa 
c t s contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the 
aPplication should be approved. 
SePtember l 4 > 1970. 

25^4 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON, MAISEL, AND BRIMMER 
Consummation of the present proposal would eliminate 
substantial and increasing competition between a subsidiary of 
Applicant, which is by far the largest banking organization in 
Waukesha County, and Bank, the largest bank in the County's second 
largest city. The acquisition would not provide any services to the 
Oconomowoc area which are not fully and conveniently available from 
°ffices of one of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Consequently, 
fche appii c a ti o n should be denied. 
Viewed in its simplest terms the present proposal would 
reduce from three to two the number of competing organizations in the 
Oconomowoc area. The seriousness of this reduction in consumer 
alternatives is aggravated by the fact that entry into the area is 
highly restricted. Under Wisconsin law, no bank may lawfully 
e 8tabl i s h a branch in Oconomowoc, or within three miles thereof. 
Th 
e recent establishment by Applicant's largest subsidiary of a 
br anch in Summit, 3.2 miles from Oconomowoc, also foreclosed the 
c l o 
sest municipality to Oconomowoc from potential branching by 
3 n y other bank. Therefore, in the absence of a new bank being 
cH i 
altered, the area will be limited to the number of banking offices 
nov/ located there. Under these circumstances, the effect of the 
Present proposal in bringing two of the three such offices under 
c°nimon ownership must be regarded as seriously anticompetitive, and, 

25<»5 
-2-
in the light of Applicant's present ability to serve the area through 
the branch location, no countervailing benefits to the community 
^ould result from the proposal's consummation. 
Itcf-'^i : 
.,4 
Applicant's largest subsidiary, First National Bank of 
Waukesha, is about three times as large as its closest competitor 
in size in Waukesha County. Another subsidiary, New Berlin State 
Bank, i s also located in Waukesha County, and together these two 
banks account for almost 35 per cent of the deposits of all banks 
headquartered in the County; Applicant's control of County deposits 
w°uld increase to over 39 per cent as a result of the proposed 
accluisition. Waukesha, the largest city in the County, is located 
°nly 18 miles from Oconomowoc along a direct access route. The 
atoount of business derived from Oconomowoc by First National Bank, 
G n°t large in absolute terms, is equal to over 5 per cent 
o f the deposits and 24 per cent of the loans which Bank itself 
derives from the area - an amount certainly large enough to suggest 
that First National is not without competitive influence in that 
area. 
In July of this year, First National became the most 
d i r G ct and immediate competitor of the two Oconomowoc banks, through 
establishment of the branch in Summit. No other banking office 
s located within six miles of Bank, and those located at that 
dist 
Jnce are small banks which serve very local areas, and have 
irtually no effect on competition in Oconomowoc. 
a :. 

2 5 9 6 
• .1 ; I .. 
IV :!> :.' 
-3-
In the light of First National's previous competitive 
influence in Oconomowoc, the lack of full deposit and loan data 
wi-th which to demonstrate the competitive impact of the new branch 
i s of little significance. Even without such data, there is every 
reason to conclude that the convenient access which the branch will 
Provide to the services of an aggressive institution which is the 
*argest bank in the County would result in its being a most significant 
alternative to the two downtown banks. Applicant itself has assured 
Board that the establishment of the branch was premised upon 
general growth prospects of the area, and that the cancellation of 
a Proposed manufacturing facility nearby will not significantly 
alter those favorable prospects. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would eliminate 
Substantial present and potential competition. 
Since no outweighing 
c°nsiderations are presented in the record, we would deny the 
aPplication. 
SePtember 1 4, 1970. 
Il • v 
; ; I ' 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
9/14/70 
September 15, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Joint Committee on Defense Production 
Congress of the United States 
Washington, D.C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am enclosing a report summarizing the mobilization 
activities of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System and Federal Reserve Banks for inclusion in the Twentieth 
Annual Report of the Joint Committee to the Congress, as requested 
in your letter of July 1, 1970. 
The report, in three parts, summarizes programs and 
activities related to three general areas of preparedness 
responsibility assigned to the Board and Federal Reserve Banks 
by Executive Orders 11490 and 10480; namely, preparations to 
survive a nuclear attack and to cope with the potential economic 
effects of all conditions of national emergency, promotion of 
commercial bank preparedness, and performance of fiscal agency 
and regulatory functions in connection with Government guarantees 
of defense production loans. 
Sincerely yours 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 

C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
9/14/70 
September 14, 1970 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking and Currency 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As you requested, I am siting to express the views of 
the Board on your amendment to section 104 of H. R. 6778. We 
recommend adoption of the amendment, which would exempt from 
section 104 certain traditional banking arrangements. 
Section 104, as reported, would prohibit coercive 
tie-ins involving banks, bank holding companies, and their 
subsidiaries, but would authorize the Board of Governors to 
grant such exemptions as it considers would not be contrary 
to the purposes of the section. 
The committee report on II. R. 6778 states that the 
e x e m p t i v e authority granted to the Board in section 104 should 
be 
used to guard against disruption of "appropriate traditional 
banking practices." It further states, in regard to this 
exemptive authority, that: 
"This will enable the customer to continue to 
negotiate with the bank on the basis of his entire 
relationship with the bank. For example, where the 
customer uses multiple banking services such as 
deposit, loan, fiduciary, and commercial accounts or 
facilities, the parties may be free to fix or vary 
the consideration for any services upon the existence 
or extent of utilization of such banking services. 
Similarly, the language is not intended to affect 
bank correspondent relationships, but insures that 
traditional correspondent relationships cannot be 
perverted by being tied to or conditioned upon 
maintenance or establishment of relationships with 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
- 2 -
nonbank subsidiaries of bank holding companies, or 
with businesses operated within the bank or by the 
people controlling a bank. Also, the language is 
not intended to prevent such traditional banking 
practices which protect extensions of credit by 
agreement to restrict other borrowing, but insures 
that such agreements may not be tied to or conditioned 
upon an agreement not to do business with competitors 
of other subsidiaries of the bank holding company, 
the bank, or of the operators of the bank." 
The Board believes that it is better to include exemptions 
in the statute than to leave them to administrative discretion, and 
accordingly we recommend adoption of the amendment. 
Sincerely yours, 
L' "• J I • 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

• 
t S' l C \ \ vrs 
2 G 0 0 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
9/14/70 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
September 14, 1970 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
I am writing in response to your letter of September 10, 
in which you asked for the Board's position on your two amendments 
t o H. R. 6778. 
The first amendment would strike section 103(d), the so-
called conglomerate amendment adopted in committee. As Vice 
Chairman Robertson wrote you on June 30, section 103(d) not only 
would "condone a continuation of a combination of a bank and 
nonbank corporations in one system, but it would also permit 
the holding company to expand virtually without limit into new 
nonbanking activities." The Board considers this wholly 
inconsistent with the purpose of confining bank holding companies 
to activities related to banking, and discriminatory in that those 
olding companies that are most heavily engaged in nonbanking 
2°tivities would be granted privileges not accorded to others, 
ccordingly} the. Board recommends adoption of your amendment. 
The second amendment would change the grandfather date 
in the reported bill from March 24, 1969, to June 30, 1968. The 
wpetus for one-bank holding company legislation in this Congress 
f r° s e out of the new wave of one-bank holding companies formed 
country's largest banks, beginning in mid-1968. Several 
these large, bank-centered companies established nonbank 
subsidiaries between July 1, 1968 and March 24, 1969. We 
continue to prefer the June 30, 1968 date in order to provide 
r a review of these subsidiaries to determine whether they 
conform to whatever standards are ultimately established under 
new legislation. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
