Minutes for October 9, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3869 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 9, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Craig, Doyle, Noble, and Via, and Mrs. 
Heller of the Legal Division 
Messrs. King, Lawrence, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Harris, Kline, and Lyon of the 
Division of Examinations 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at the meeting of the 
available members of the Board on Friday, October 6, 1967, as recorded 
in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 

10/9/67 
-2-
Application of Bankers International Corporation (Item No. 1). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to Bankers International Corpo-
ration, New York, New York, granting consent to the acquisition, either 
directly or through wholly-owned subsidiaries, of shares of Dier Computer 
Company, Sydney, N. S. W., Australia. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition 
by Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, San Juan, Puerto Rico, of a portion of 
the assets of the 90 Delancey Street branch of Chemical Bank New York 
Trust Company, New York, New York, and assumption of a portion of the 
liabilities of that branch, in a form in which the conclusion read as 
follows: 
A small amount of competition exists between the 
90 Delancey Street branch of Chemical Bank New York 
Trust Company, New York, New York, and the 111 Essex 
Street branch of Banco Popular de Puerto Rico, San 
Juan, Puerto Rico. The competitive effects of the 
proposed transaction (whereby Banco Popular de Puerto 
Rico would acquire a portion of the assets and a por-
tion of the deposits held by Chemical Bank New York 
Trust Company's 90 Delancey Street branch) would be 
slightly adverse. 
Applications of Barnett National Securities Corporation. 
There 
had been distributed under date of September 27, 1967, a memorandum 
from the Division of Examinations and other pertinent papers relating 

3 8 7 1 . . 
10/9/67 
-3-
to applications by Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jackson-
ville, Florida, to acquire shares of The American National Bank and 
Trust Company in Winter Haven, Winter Haven, Florida, and The American 
National Bank in Cypress Gardens, Cypress Gardens, Florida. The Divi-
sion's recommendation was favorable, as were those of the Banking Mar-
kets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Following summary remarks by Mr. Lyon based on the material 
that had been distributed, the applications were approved unanimously 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting this 
decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
It was also 
understood, pursuant to a suggestion by Governor Brimmer, that the 
letter to the applicant advising it of the Board's action would comment 
on the Board's understanding that the applicant had formulated plans 
for strengthening the capital position of the Winter Haven bank. 
Application of Exchange State Bank. Memoranda from the Divi-
sion of Examinations dated September 27 and October 4, 1967, and other 
pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an application 
of Exchange State Bank, Lanark, Illinois, to acquire the assets of, and 
assume the liability to pay deposits made in, The National Bank of 
Lanark. The Division's recommendation was favorable, as were those of 
the Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Mr. Egertson reviewed the application, his comments being based 
principally on the distributed material, following which the application 

o ij^yo 
OO 4 <<•:* 
10/9/67 
-4-
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that an order and 
statement reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Question was raised as to how the statement in support of the 
Board's action should deal with the fact that the two banks were under 
common ownership. It was agreed that, while there would be no objec-
tion to citing the fact of common ownership, the statement should make 
clear that other considerations provided the grounds for approval. 
Members of the staff who had been present other than Messrs. 
Sherman, Kenyon, Brill, Molony, and Sammons withdrew from the meeting 
at this point and Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Divi-
sion of International Finance, entered the room. 
Voluntary foreign credit restraint program. Governor Robertson 
noted that the other members of the Board had received copies, in draft 
form, of the 1968 voluntary foreign credit restraint program for finan-
cial institutions that he recommended submitting, on behalf of the Board, 
to the Cabinet Committee on the Balance of Payments. 
Governor Robertson then summarized a meeting at the Treasury 
last Friday at which ranking officials of the Treasury and the Export-
Import Bank were present. At that meeting he had discussed, in the 
context of the voluntary program and the U.S. balance of payments posi-
tion, the financing by the Export-Import Bank of sales of jet aircraft 
under arrangements that enabled commercial banks to participate in the 

10/9/67 
-5-
financing outside the guidelines of the voluntary program. His argu-
ments against the use of such financing arrangements, particularly where 
the purchasing corporation was located in a country having a payments 
surplus, were not accepted by the representatives of the Export-Import 
Bank. However, there was a suggestion by the Treasury that the proce-
dures of the National Advisory Council on International Monetary and 
Financial Policies be reviewed to strengthen their effectiveness in 
formulating policy decisions on matters such as the aircraft financing 
program. 
Governor Robertson also said he had informed the group that he 
was recommending that the exemption from the voluntary program for 
credits guaranteed or arranged by the Export-Import Bank or insured by 
the Foreign Credit Insurance Association be removed. He had added that 
there would still be ample leeway under the program guidelines for 
financial institutions to participate with the Export-Import Bank in 
guaranteed or insured credits. Reasons were given by Bank representa-
tives why they considered the proposal inadvisable, but he did not 
consider those reasons convincing. 
Governor Robertson went on to say that he had later reviewed 
the proposed 1968 program with the Treasury officials, who expressed 
some apprehension that the dropping of the Export-Import Bank exemption 
would be read as reflecting a more restrictive attitude toward export 
financing. 
In reply, he had pointed out that the proposed 1968 program 
contained a provision that would add a potential $600 million, in the 

3874 
10/9/67 
-6-
aggregate, to the ceilings for smaller banks, that the large banks 
i 
presently had a leeway of around $800 million, and that all of this 
would be earmarked for export credits and credits to less-developed 
countries. As of this morning, he understood that the reservations 
of the Treasury centered around whether the program would be unduly 
restrictive on export financing. 
In his opinion there would be ample 
latitude, but he had told Under Secretary Barr that the Board would 
not come to a decision on the proposed 1968 program until tomorrow. 
There followed a discussion during which Governor Robertson 
responded to questions dealing with the reasons for providing a 1968 
ceiling of 2 per cent of end-of-1966 total assets for banks having a 
lower ceiling under the 1967 program, the protection built into the 
guidelines against circumvention of the objectives of that allowance, 
the probable reaction of the banking community to the proposed 1968 
program, and the justification for various provisions therein. 
Governor Brimmer reported indications that the particular air-
craft transaction cited by Governor Robertson at last Friday's meeting 
at the Treasury would be approved by a majority of the NAC. On the 
proposal to drop the Export-Import Bank exemption, he understood that 
the Treasury would like to discuss the matter further, since it forsaw 
some problems. 
Governor Brimmer also said that at his request the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York had explored the possibility of providing 

3875 
10/9/67 
-7-
information on borrowing in the Euro-bond market to concerns directed 
to that Bank by the Commerce Department. He added that he would dis-
tribute copies of a memorandum prepared at the New York Bank containing 
a favorable staff reaction to that proposal. 
Governor Brimmer then said that his reaction to the 1968 pro-
gram recommended by Governor Robertson was favorable. He felt that the 
guidelines should be strengthened in certain respects, for example, with 
regard to extension by banks of real estate loans to individuals to 
acquire property abroad. In his judgment the Export-Import Bank exemp-
tion should be removed; if it were not removed, he would doubt the advis-
ability of providing the 2 per cent ceiling for smaller banks. 
Governor Daane also expressed some reservations about the 2 per 
cent feature, one reason being that full utilization of the latitude 
provided thereby, if it occurred, would about offset the $600 million 
tightening on direct investments contemplated by the Commerce Depart-
ment's program. 
In further discussion Governor Robertson invited Governor 
Brimmer to review with the staff his suggestions for tightening the 
proposed 1968 program. 
It was understood that the proposed program would be considered 
further by the Board at tomorrow's meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3876 
10/9/67 
-8-
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Katherine M . Bulow, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business October 18, 1967. 
Angela Lancaster, Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business October 27, 1967. 
On October 9, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
New York, approving the establishment of 
a branch in Woodlawn Heights, Borough of 
the Bronx. 
Letter to The County Trust Company, White 
Plains, New York, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in the Town of Cornwall, 
Orange County. 
. . . . 
. 
•»• ( 
' 
. 
i 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letters to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
4-5 
California, granting extensions of time 
within which to establish branches in Dan-
ville and Stockton. 
Item No. 
2 
3 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
N o > 
L 
D
F
T
H
E
 
10/9/67* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
October 9, 1967. 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of September 5, 1967, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold either directly and/or through your 
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Bankers International (Luxembourg) 
S.A., and B. T. Australia Pty. Ltd., approximately 600,000 
shares (40 per cent) of the capital stock of Dier Computer 
Company, Sydney, N. S. W., Australia, at a cost of approxi-
mately US$672,000. 
The foregoing consent is being given with the 
understanding that the investment now being approved, com-
bined with other foreign loans and investments of your 
Corporation, and the Bankers Trust Company, will not cause 
the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
lines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect and that due consideration 
is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
item NO. 2 
10/9/67 
NEW YORK, NEW YORK 10045 
f 
October 9, 1967 
I I r
' Michael! J. Gil* 
^ s i s t a n t Treasurer 
p i k e r s Trust Company 
ft) Vail Street 
York, New York 
10015 
Soar Mr. Gill: 
We refer to your banL's application dated August 
requesting permission to establish a brench office at the 
seVthvost corner' of Katoaah Avenue and £ast ZhOtli Street, 
^'coV.ldva Heiehts, Bronic, 
York. After reviewing ta^ appli-
CQ
-t:jon in the light of the factors enumerated in Section 
f)(l) 
jJhe Rules Re^ardin^ Delegation of Authority issued by the Board 
°^A>Gvernors of 'the Federal Reserve System, vo have coneluded that 
-jraur application should be approved• Accordingly, on 
of 
B O A R D of Governors, tlie Federal Reserve Sanl: of IJo-j iorh> 
^ v t a s under delegated authority, approves the establishment by 
yoi/r bank of a branch office at the above-aentioned location, 
•vided it is established vithin one year of the date of this 
letter* 
Wo shall appreciate your advising us when the branch is 
^ctually established and opened for business, giving the effective 
of opening, the n a a e / i f any, by vhich it will be known, and 
official postal address, including the zip code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by sicninc 
and returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred V . Piderit, J r . 
Vice President 
^ftclc 
j.c 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
N E W 
Y O R K , 
N . Y . 
1 0 0 4 5 
A R E A COOK 
2 1 2 
R E 
2 - S 7 0 0 
October 9, 19&7 
John A . Kley 
R e s i d e n t 
^ e County Trust Company 
Main Street 
w
hite Plains, New York 
10602 
D e
*r Mr. Kley: 
We'refer to your bank's application dated June 
967, requesting permission to establish a branch office in 
immediate vicinity of the intersection of Quaker Avenue 
an
<l Angola Road, Town of Cornwall, Orange County, New .York. 
After reviewing the application in the light of the factors 
^numerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding 
^legation of Authority issued "by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, we have concluded that your applica-
tion should be approved. Accordingly, on behalf of the Board 
0 f
 Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting under 
gated authority, approves the establishment by your bank 
o f
 a branch office at the above-mentioned location, provided 
** is established within one year of the date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
i s
 actually established and opened for business, giving the 
®
f
£ectlve date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will 
b e
 known, and the official postal address, including the zip 
C0(
le number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of"this letter by signing 
returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
C1 lioC&uiisitt:!. 
Fred W. Pideri-t
7
, Jr. 
Vice President 
0 0 t '.J 
Item No. 3 
10/9/67 
^ c l o s u r e 

3 8 R O 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
SAN FXANOXBOO, CAUCFOKNIA 
94120 
Item No. 4 
October 9, 1967 
10/9/67 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
A64 California Street, 
8an Francisco, California. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, actingunder delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved an extension to April 11, 1968, of 
the time within which Wells Farg\ Ban> may establish a 
branch office in/*Ke~vIfcinity of W r intersection of San 
Ramon Valley 
of Danville, 
Thii 
request c< 
1967. 
llevsrd and 
Hitra Costa 
extension is 
:ained in 
Country Drive, City 
California. 
ranted in connection with 
letter dated October 9, 
Very truly yours. 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L* Jennings, 
Vice President. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
SAN rKANOISOO, OiUTOUlU 94180 
Item No. 
C t o W r 
I M 7
 
1 0 / 9 / 6 7 
Mr. Kotert I*. Konptr, YIM frtiidcnt, 
Controller and Cashier v 
Halls Virgo Bank, 
Aik California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Daar Mr. Ksssper: 
On bahalf of tha Boa 
Federel fteaerve System, acting 
this Bank haa approved an ax tana 
tha tint within whlchHa^ls Fargo 
branch office at the Intersection 
Streets, Stockton, California, p 
now being conducted at 26 II. Van Joe 
continued simultaneously with) the establlahaent of the 
te. 
This extension^!* granted in connection with 
the requeat contained in your letter dated October 5, 
Vary truly yours, 
of the 
authority, 
6, 1968, of 
eatabliah a 
Miner and XI Dorado 
that operatlona 
in Street ere die* 
O ' ; 
: IO • 
Ksigned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin t. Jennings, 
flee President. 
