Minutes for January 5, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 
Revision of VFCR Program Guidelines. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes,, 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
I 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 5, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Ormsby of the Office of 
the Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical charts and tables prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Staff who had been present for the purpose of the economic 
and financial review then withdrew. 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1/5/71 
-2-
Foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer, in a memorandum 
dated December 28, 1970, stated that the Administration was expected soon 
to decide upon the extension of the Commerce Department's Foreign Direct 
Investment Program. One proposal placed before the President called for 
a $250 million liberalization, another for no relaxation. 
Governor Brimmer recommended, if there was no relaxation in the 
Commerce program, that the guidelines for the Board's Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program not be relaxed but merely reissued in a fresh 
text consolidating amendments already made and clarifying existing 
language. If the Commerce Department guidelines were liberalized to 
permit about $250 million additional capital outflow, Governor Brimmer 
recommended that the VFCR guidelines be revised to exempt from the bank 
rules securities of international organizations of which the United States 
is a member. This change would extend to the bank guidelines an exemption 
already provided in the guidelines for nonbank financial institutions. 
If it should be determined that this exemption would have a very modest 
effect, Governor Brimmer recommended that the guidelines also be revised 
to exempt export credits from the Western Europe short-term subceiling. 
In today's discussion, Governor Brimmer indicated that he under-
stood the Administration probably would adopt the recommended relaxation 
of the Commerce program. In discussing the proposed exemption of export 
credits from the Western Europe short-term subceiling, he brought out 
that collectively banks were over that ceiling. However, most of the 
individual bank overages were temporary or accidental. The net 

8 
1/5/71 
-3-
liberalizing effect of an exemption of export credits from the subceiling 
might amount to $200 or $250 million in 1971. 
The discussion reflected a unanimous view in favor of the proposed 
exemption for banks with respect to securities of international organiza-
tions. However, Governors Robertson and Daane expressed the view that 
no further relaxation in the VFCR guidelines was justified in light of the 
U. S. balance of payments problem. Governor Brimmer emphasized that that 
was his own feeling. But if, as expected, the Administration allowed some 
relaxation in the direct investment program, as a matter of equity some 
response would seem to be called for in the bank program. Banks had given 
excellent cooperation in general, and it seemed desirable to avoid a 
situation in which discrimination was involved. 
Governor Brimmer then stated that, as indicated in his introduc-
tory remarks, he had a further proposal to offer if the Board found his 
second recommendation unacceptable. Under the Board's guidelines, if a 
credit by a commercial bank was guaranteed, participated in, or insured 
by the Export-Import Bank, the Foreign Credit Insurance Association, or 
the Department of Defense, that credit was exempt in its entirety. Recently 
the Export-Import Bank had been engaging in what it called cooperative 
lending, in which a line of credit opened for a U.S. commercial bank and 
a foreign bank might cause some capital outflow. These Eximbank "associated 
credits" had increased by almost 50 per cent, or $220 million, during 1970, 
and it appeared that further growth would occur in 1971, The Board might 

1 
1/5/71 
-4-
base a decision not to relax the subceiling for Western Europe export 
credits on the fact that a fairly substantial outflow had already taken 
place through the Eximbank's associated credits. 
Further discussion reflected a reaffirmed view on the part of 
Governors Robertson and Daane against relaxation in principle, while 
Governor Maisel spoke of the distortions that were bound to occur, and 
magnify, when any control device such as the VFCR was kept in place 
for an extended period. Governor Brimmer noted that he had long 
advocated that a different kind of restriction, hopefully market oriented, 
be substituted for the VFCR. However, no such alternative had yet been 
formulated, and a substantial increase in capital outflows could be 
expected if the present program was dismantled. 
Chairman Burns then commented that the central question was 
whether, in view of the probable relaxation of the Commerce Department 
program, the Board wanted to respond with the relatively modest 
relaxation with respect to the export credit subceiling. While it could 
be said that such a relaxation would be wrong in principle, it would be 
fairly unimportant quantitatively, and the Board had some responsibility 
to the banks in terms of equity. Since the Board had instituted its 
program at the request of the Administration, it hardly seemed appro-
priate for the Board to maintain a policy posture different from that 
of the Administration. 

8 
1/5/71 
-5-
There followed discussion of the kind of announcement that 
might be made by the Administration if some relaxation of the Commerce 
Department program should be decided upon, and what type of Board 
release would be appropriate in the circumstances, following which the 
Chairman indicated that before any Board release was issued he would 
like to check into certain aspects of the matter a bit further. 
The possibility was mentioned that arrangements might be made 
for the Treasury press conference on the Government's balance of 
payments program, now scheduled for Thursday, to be deferred. Among 
other things, that would afford the Board members who were not present 
today an opportunity to participate in the discussion of the subject. 
However, inasmuch as it was not known whether the Treasury press 
conference could be deferred, it was concluded that the appropriate 
course would be to decide today whether to make the following revisions 
in the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, assuming that a 
relaxation along the lines anticipated would be made in the Commerce 
Department Program: (1) exclude from the guidelines securities of 
international institutions of which the United States is a member; 
(2) exempt export credits from the subceiling that limits short-term 
credits to residents of developed countries of continental Western Europe; 
(3) incorporate into the body of the guidelines three amendments adopted 
in 1970 and clarify language in several guideline provisions. 

8 
1/5/71 
-6-
Governor Daane said that in all the circumstances he would go 
along with the majority, while Governor Robertson said that he would 
like to abstain unless it developed that his favorable vote was needed. 
Accordingly, the revisions in the VFCR were approved, 
Governor Robertson abstaining, with the understanding that the Chairman 
was authorized to explore certain aspects of the matter further with 
Administration officials and that if the Treasury press conference should 
be deferred the Board might discuss the matter again at its meeting 
on Thursday. 
(Note: On January 6, Governor Brimmer distributed to the other 
Board members a memorandum advising that it appeared that the press 
conference to release the revisions in the Administration's balance of 
payments program for 1971 would be held on Thursday morning, January 7. 
With the memorandum he submitted a draft of Board press release that 
would be issued at the same time. The Board members were asked for their 
comments on the press statement or, if they approved it, their initials. 
As the result of this distribution, a press statement in the form attached 
as Item No. 1 was released on January 7.) 
It was understood that during the coming year Governor Brimmer 
and the Board's staff would devote a substantial amount of time to a 
systematic review of alternatives to the present type of foreign credit 
restraint program. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, including Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel. 

7 
1/5/71 
-7-
Bank holding company legislation. Reference was made to reports 
in the press of the acquisition of a large management consulting firm 
by the holding company of a major national bank. While the acquisition 
apparently had been consummated before the effective date of the recent 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, some apprehension was 
expressed that the reports in the press could create confusion on the 
part of others as to the present requirements of the law, and the staff 
was requested to prepare for the Board's consideration a clarifying 
release that might be issued. 
Discount rate. 
It was noted that the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston and Minneapolis had acted, subject to review 
and determination by the Board, to lower the discount rate from 5-1/2 to 
5-1/4 per cent. Reference also was made to the report in an article in 
today's edition of the New York Times of a rumor circulating in Wall 
Street, which according to the article could not be confirmed, that 
two Reserve Banks had taken such action. 
It was agreed that the Secretary should contact the Presidents 
of the 12 Federal Reserve Banks by telephone, communicate to them the 
Board's concern that discount rate matters be held in strict confidence 
by the directors and top management of the respective Reserve Banks, 
and verify to the Presidents the current status of the matter. 
There followed a discussion of the case for a discount rate 
adjustment at this time. 
It was noted that the Presidents had been 
planning a discount rate discussion at the next meeting of the Presidents' 

8 
1/5/71 
-8-
Conference, but there was some feeling within the Board that in all 
the circumstances more prompt action was indicated. A table that was 
distributed showed that the gap between short-term market interest 
rates and the discount rate was widening, and comments at this meeting 
cited further evidences of weakening tendencies in the economy along 
with the rise, yet to be reported, in the rate of unemployment in 
December. 
For all of these reasons, members of the Board expressed 
the view that the previously anticipated schedule for consideration 
of the discount rate, which would have looked forward to the possibility 
of a rate reduction after mid-January, should be accelerated and that 
the Board should reach a decision later this week on the proposals 
currently before it, together with any others that might be forthcoming. 
Penn Central. 
No objection was indicated to a plan under which 
the Federal Reserve Banks would provide certain services, as fiscal 
agents of the Treasury, in connection with the underwriting of certificates 
being issued by the trustees in bankruptcy of the Penn Central Transpor-
tation Company. 
SIPC. 
There was a brief discussion of the requirement contained 
in the law that a member or employee of the Board be named as a member 
of the newly-formed Securities Investor Protection Corporation, and it 
was understood that the matter would be considered further at another 
meeting in light of additional information to be supplied to the Board, 

1/5/71 
-9 
including whatever information was 
time and effort that would have to 
person appointed. 
The meeting then adjourned 
9 
available as to the amount of 
be devoted to the task by the 
Secretary 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
A 
p r e s s 
e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 1 
1/5/71 
January 7, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System re-issued 
today revised voluntary guidelines which U. S. banks and other financial 
institutions follow in limiting their loans and investments abroad. 
No change was made in the overall guideline ceilings already 
in effect under the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program (VFCR). 
Each bank reporting under the program will continue to have an Export 
Term-Loan Ceiling exclusively for loans of more than 1 year that finance 
U. S. export goods and a separate General Ceiling that is available for 
loans of any type and of any maturity. The revisions will: 
1. Exclude from the guidelines bonds and notes of international 
institutions--such as the International Bank for Reconstruction and Devel-
opment, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the Asian Development 
Bank--of which the United States is a member. This grants to banks under 
the program an exclusion that already applies to nonbank financial insti-
tutions . 
2. Exempt export credits from a subceiling that limits short-
term credits to residents of developed countries of continental Western 
Europe. These short-term export credits must still be reported under 
the banks' general ceiling. 
3. Incorporate into the body of the guidelines three amendments 
adopted in 1970 and clarify language in several guidelines provisions. 
The VFCR, in operation since 1965 to limit capital outflows by 
hanks and nonbank financial institutions such as insurance companies and 

-16-
11 
mutual funds, is part of the Government's overall effort to strengthen 
the U. S. balance of payments position. Other parts of that effort are 
the Interest Equalization Tax and the Foreign Direct Investment Program 
administered by the Treasury Department and the Department of Commerce, 
respectively. 
In re-issuing the guidelines, the Board said that the outlook 
for the U. S. balance of payments did not justify changing the degree 
of restraint under the VFCR program. Consequently, the revisions re-
lating to international institutions and short-term export credits to 
the developed countries of continental Western Europe reflect technical 
changes. The first was designed to equalize treatment under the guide-
lines between banks and other financial institutions, and the second was 
made to give banks greater flexibility in using their existing leeway 
under the general ceiling for export financing. 
There are two subsidiary restraints on bank lending to residents 
of the developed countries of continental Western Europe. One asks that 
no credits of more than one year maturity be extended to such residents, 
except to finance exports. The other asks that credits of one year or 
less to such residents not exceed 75 per cent of the amount each bank 
had outstanding in credit of this kind at the end of 1967. The latter 
Provision is now being revised to exempt export credits. 
At the end of November, the banks' General Ceiling amounted to 
$10 billion, and the Export Term-Loan Ceiling amounted to $1.4 billion, 
$11.4 billion in total. Outstanding credits subject to these ceilings 

-3- 
12 
totaled $8.9 billion and $157 million respectively. Thus the banks had 
leeway for further lending of $2.4 billion. Loans and investments in 
Canada and credits related to Export-Import Bank financing are exempt 
from the ceilings. 
All changes in the guidelines are in provisions relating to 
banks and are effective immediately. Language was clarified in Guideline 
Provision II: A-3a and c; A-5; D-3c; D-4; E-l; and G-2. Changes in 
reference to "previous guidelines" consequential to the issuance of a 
new text were made in Guideline Provision II: A-l; and D-3b and c. 
A copy of the guidelines is attached. 
-0-

13 
Revised Guidelines for Banks 
and Nonbank Financial Institutions 
General Purpose 
In order to help to strengthen the U.S. balance of payments, U.S. 
financial institutions are asked to continue to restrain their foreign 
loans and investments and, within the limits of the restraints, to give 
priority to financing U.S. exports of goods and services and to meeting 
the credit needs of developing countries. 
Banks_ 
Ceilings 
** Banks with ceilings under previous guidelines 
A bank that had a foreign lending ceiling under the Federal 
Reserve foreign credit restraint guidelines in existence on 
November 30, 1970 (hereafter "previous guidelines") will have, 
under the present revised guidelines, a General Ceiling and 
an Export Term-Loan Ceiling. The General Ceiling will be 
available for foreign claims of any type and maturity, in-
cluding Export Term Loans; subject to the definitions and 
other conditions set forth below, the Export Term-Loan Ceiling 
will be available solely for foreign export term loans. 

-2- 
1 4 
General Ceiling 
i) The General Ceiling will be equal to the bank's 
adjusted ceiling as of November 30, 1969, as further 
adjusted under guidelines issued subsequent to that 
date. 
ii) A bank should not at any time hold claims on for-
eigners in excess of its General Ceiling, except for 
the claims which it reports under its separate Export 
Term-Loan Ceiling described in section A-l-b, below, 
iii) Within its General Ceiling, a bank should give pri-
ority to credits financing exports of U.S. goods and 
services and to credits meeting the needs of developing 
countr ies« 
Export Term-Loan Ceiling 
i) The Export Term-Loan Ceiling will be equal to 0.5 per 
cent of the bank's total assets as of December 31, 1968, 
as that ceiling is further adjusted under guidelines 
issued subsequent to November 30, 1969. 
ii) A bank should not at any time hold claims on foreigners 
that are export term loans, as defined in section G-3 
below, to finance goods exported frc.m the United States 
after November 30, 1969, or to finance services performed 
in foreign countries by U.S. individuals or U.S. firms 
after November 30, 1969, in excess of the bank's Export 

-3-
15 
Term-Loan Ceiling, except such export term loans as the 
bank counts against its General Ceiling, described in 
section A-l-a, above. 
Banks without ceilings under previous guidelines 
A bank that has not had a foreign lending ceiling under the 
previous guidelines may discuss with the Federal Reserve Bank 
in its District the possibility of adopting a General Ceiling 
and an Export Term-Loan Ceiling. In determining whether and, 
if so, in what amount, ceilings should be established, there 
should be clear reason for expecting that the bank will use 
such ceilings predominantly for short-and long-term export 
loans. Any General Ceiling, and any Export Term-Loan Ceiling 
should not, in the aggregate, exceed 1 per cent of the bank's 
total assets as of December 31, 1968. 
Western Europe 
a. General ceiling adjustment for prior nonexport term loans. 
A bank each month should reduce its General Ceiling by the 
dollar amount of any repayments it receives on nonexport 
term loans to residents of developed countries of continental 
Western Europe outstanding on December 31, 1967. 
b* Restraint on new nonexport term loans. A bank should not 
make new term loans to such residents, except loans that 
finance U.S. exports. 

-16- 
17 
c* Subceiling on short-term credits. A bank should hold the 
amount of non-export short-term credits (having a maturity 
of not over 1 year) to such residents to not more than 
75 per cent of the amounts outstanding on December 31, 
1967 of all short-term credits to such residents. 
4. Adjustment for Prior Export Term Loans 
A bank each month should reduce its General Ceiling, and should 
increase its Export Term-Loan Ceiling, by the dollar amount of 
any repayments it receives on Export Term-Loans outstanding on 
November 30, 1969. 
5. Sales of Foreign Assets 
a. Sales without recourse. A bank that sells a foreign asset 
that is subject to the guideline ceilings, without recourse, 
(a) to a U.S. resident other than a financial institution 
participating in the Federal Reserve foreign credit restraint 
program or other than a direct investor subject to the con-
trols administered by the Department of Commerce or (b) to 
the Export-Import Bank should reduce its General Ceiling 
or its Export Term-Loan Ceiling, whichever is relevant, by 
an equivalent amount. 
b. Sales with recourse. A bank that sells a foreign asset that 
is subject to the guideline ceilings with recourse (a) to 
a U.S. resident other than a financial institution parti-
cipating in the Federal Reserve foreign credit restraint 

17 
-19-
prbgram or other than a diirect investor subject to the 
Foreign Direct Investment Program administered by the 
Department of Commerce or (b) to the Export-Import Bank 
should continue to report those assets under its General 
Ceiling or its Export Term-Loan Ceiling,, whichever is 
relevant. 
6. Total Assets 
For the purpose of calculating the Export Term-Loan Ceiling, 
total assets are those shown in the Official Report of Condition 
submitted to the relevant supervisory agency as of December 31, 
1963. 
7. Foreign Borrowings 
In principle, the restraints under these guidelines are imposed 
on gross foreign assets, including gross claims on foreigners. 
However, certain liabilities to foreigners may be counted as 
offsets to foreign assets only where the liabilities arise from 
borrowings abroad that substitute for direct investment capital 
outflow from the United States and are not likely to substitute 
for foreign deposits, or for short-term foreign investments, in 
the United States. Such offsetting may be done in the manner 
described below. 
Banks and Edge Act, and Agreement, Corporations. A bank, 
an "Edge Act" Corporation, or an "Agreement" Corporation 
may not count its borrowings from, or its other liabilities 

to, foreigners as offsets to its claims on foreigners 
and other foreign assets. 
Domestic subsidiaries, A domestically-chartered 
subsidiary (for example, a so-called Delaware sub-
sidiary) of an Edge Act Corporation or of an Agree-
ment Corporation may count the outstanding amount of 
its borrowings from foreigners as offsets to its claims 
on foreigners and to its other foreign assets, provided 
those borrowings are of an original maturity of three 
years or more. Such borrowings would include debentures 
promissory notes, or other debt obligations of the do-
mestic subsidiary to a foreigner. The amount of the 
offset at any time would be equal to the amount of the 
outstandings after deducting (i) any repayments of 
principal and (ii) in the case of convertible debt 
issues, any conversions. This offsetting principle may 
be used to reduce the value of foreign assets of the 
subsidiary in computing the value of foreign assets to 
be consolidated for reporting purposes with those of 
the parent institution; any excess of outstanding borrow 
ings of the subsidiary over foreign assets of the sub-
sidiary may not be used to reduce the reportable value 
of foreign assets of the parent institution. 

B. 
Exclusions 
1. Canada 
a« No restraint. These guidelines are not to restrain the 
extension of credit to residents of Canada, 
b* Reporting. For the purpose of reporting claims under 
the General Ceiling, a bank should count against its 
General Ceiling claims on residents of Canada outstand-
ing on February 29, 1968, deducting any net increase in 
such claims granted after that date and adding any net 
reduction in such claims granted after that date. 
2. Certain Guaranteed and Insured Loans 
Loans that are to finance U.S. exports and that are guaranteed, or 
participated in, by the Export-Import Bank, or guaranteed by 
the Department of Defense, or are insured by the Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association are exempted from the General Ceiling 
and the Export Term-Loan Ceiling. 
3. Securities of Certain International Institutions 
Bonds and notes of international institutions of which the 
United States is a member, regardless of maturity, are 
exempted from the General Ceiling and from the Export Term-
Loan Ceiling. 
C. Temporary Overages 
A bank whose claims on foreigners are in excess of either or both 
of its ceilings and which does not show improvements will be 
invited periodically to discuss with the Federal Reserve Bank in 
its District the steps it has taken and that it proposes to take 
to bring the amount of its claims under the ceilings. 

-s- 
2 0 
Applicability to Financial Institutions 
1. General 
The guidelines are applicable to all U.S. banks (exclusive 
of the trust departments of commercial banks, which should 
follow the guidelines for nonbank financial institutions in 
Part III, below) and to "Edge Act'1 and "Agreement" 
Corporations. 
2. Edge Act and Agreement Corporations 
a. Policy of limiting aggregate ceilings. It is intended 
that the establishment of new Edge Act Corporations or 
Agreement Corporations not result in the expansion of 
aggregate lending ceilings under these guidelines. 
b. One-bank owned Corporations. An Edge Act or Agreement 
Corporation that is owned by one bank and that, under 
the previous guidelines, had a ceiling separate from 
that of its parent bank may continue to be guided by 
General and Export Term-Loan Ceilings separate from 
those of its parent or may combine its foreign loans 
and investments with the respective General andExport 
Term-Loan Ceilings of its parent. 
i) The General Ceiling and the Export Term-Loan 
Ceiling to which it would be entitled if it did 
not combine would be calculated as under section A-l, 

21 
above on the basis of the Corporation's total assets 
and its adjusted ceiling under guidelines in existence 
November 30, 1969, subject to ceiling adjustment under 
subsequent guidelines, 
ii) An Edge Act or Agreement Corporation that is owned 
by one bank and that \*as established after March 3, 
1965, should share the General and Export Term-Loan 
Ceilings of its parent bank. 
Multi-bank owned Corporations 
i) Separate Ceilings. An Edge Act or Agreement 
Corporation that is owned by more than one bank 
or by a registered bank holding company will have 
a General Ceiling and an Export Term-Loan Ceiling 
separate from those of its parent. The Corporation's 
General Ceiling and Export Term-Loan Ceilings are 
each to be equal, respectively, to 100 per cent and 
10 per cent of its adjusted ceiling as of November 30, 
1969, as further adjusted under guidelines issued 
subsequent to that date, 
ii) Transfer of Parent's Ceiling. To acquire or to 
increase ceilings, such an Edge Act or Agreement 
Corporation may receive from one or more of its 
parent banks a share of the ceilings of the 

-lo- 
2 Z 
parent or parents. Once transferred to the 
Corporation, the ceilings should not be trans-
ferred back to the parent or parents, except to 
meet unforeseen and overriding developments. If 
any such exceptional need for retransfer should 
arise, the Corporation and its parent or parents 
should consult in advance with the Federal Reserve 
Bank in their respective Districts. 
3. Holding Companies 
a. Registered bank holding companies. A registered bank 
holding company is to be treated as a bank for the 
purpose of these guidelines. 
b. One bank holding companies. A one-bank holding company 
whose bank subsidiary has ceilings under these guidelines 
is to be treated as a bank for the purpose of these 
guidelines. Such a holding company, together with its 
bank subsidiary and any nonbank subsidiary, should re-
port on a consolidated basis. However, the General 
Ceiling and the Export Term-Loan Ceiling, respectively, 
are to be calculated on the basis of the ceiling of the 
bank subsidiary under the guidelines in existence on 
November 30, 1969 and on the basis of the bank subsidiary's 
total assets as of December 31, 1968. Furthermore, to 

minimize changes from earlier established procedures, 
any nonbank subsidiary that was reporting prior to 
December 1, 1969, to the Department of Commerce under 
the Foreign Direct Investment Program or to a Federal 
Reserve Bank under the nonbank financial institution 
guidelines should not report under these bank guide-
lines. 
c» Consolidation 0f Ceilings of Bank Subsidiaries of 
Registered Bank Holding Companies. A bank subsidiary 
(including a bank, Edge Act Corporation, or Agreement 
Corporation) of a registered bank holding company may 
consolidate its General Ceiling and Export Term-Loan 
Ceiling with the respective ceilings of one or more 
of the holding company's other bank subsidiaries which 
had ceilings under guidelines in existence on November 30, 
1969. 
Foreign Branches and Foreign Subsidiaries of U.S. Banks and 
Banking Institutions 
a. The guidelines are not designed to restrict the ex-
tension of foreign credit by foreign branches of U.S. 
banks or by foreign subsidiaries of (1) U.S. banks, 
(2) Edge Act Corporations, or (3) Agreement Corporations, 
except as the result of the restraints on banks (including 

-i2-
24 
Edge and Agreement Corporations) with respect to foreign 
credit to, or foreign investment in, such branches or 
subsidiaries. 
b. Total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its foreign 
branches and foreign subsidiaries (including permanent 
capital invested in, as well as balances due from, such 
foreign branches and foreign subsidiaries) represent bank 
credit to foreigners for purposes of the guidelines. 
5. Domestic Subsidiaries of Edge Act and Agreement Corporations 
The foreign assets of domestically-chartered subsidiaries of 
Edge Act Corporations and of Agreement Corporations (net of 
foreign borrowings offset under II-A-7-b, above) should be 
consolidated with the foreign assets of the parent for pur-
poses of the guideline. 
Conformity with Objectives of Guidelines 
1. Department of Commerce Program and Nonbank Financial 
Institution Guidelines 
Banks should avoid making loans that would directly or 
indirectly enable borrowers to use funds abroad in a 
manner inconsistent with the Department of Commerce 
Foreign Direct Investment Program or with the guidelines 
for nonbank financial institutions. 

-la-
SS 
2. 
Substitute Loans 
Banks should not extend to U.S.-resident subsidiaries, or 
branches, of foreign companies loans that otherwise might 
have been made by the banks to the foreign parent or other 
affiliate of the company or that normally would have been 
obtained abroad, 
3. Management of Liquid Assets 
A bank should not place its own funds abroad (other than 
in Canada) for short-term investment purposes, whether such 
investments are payable in foreign currencies or in U.S. 
dollars. Banks need not, however, reduce necessary working 
balances held with foreign correspondents. 
4. Transactions for Customers 
While recognizing that it must follow a customer's instruction, 
a bank should discourage customers from placing liquid funds 
outside the United States, except in Canada. A bank should 
not place with a customer foreign obligations that, in the 
absence of the guidelines, it would have acquired or held 
for its own account. 
5. U.S. Branches and Agencies of Foreign Banks 
Branches and agencies of foreign banks located in the United 
States are requested to act in accordance with the spirit of 
these guidelines. 

26 
F. Reporting 
Each bank that has ceilings under these guidelines and that on 
a reporting date had $500,000 or more in foreign claims should 
file a Monthly Report on Foreign Claims with the Federal Reserve 
Bank in the District in which the bank is located. (Forms are 
available at the Federal Reserve Banks.) 
G. Definitions 
1. "Foreigners11 include: individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations domiciled outside the United States, irrespective 
of citizenship, except their agencies or branches located 
within the United States; branches, subsidiaries, and affiliates 
of U.S. banks and other U.S. corporations that are located in 
foreign countries; and any government of a foreign country or 
official agency thereof and any official international or 
regional institution created by treaty, irrespective of location, 
2. "Claims on foreigners" are claims on foreigners held for a 
bank's own account. They include: foreign long-term securi-
ties; foreign customers' liability for acceptances executed, 
whether or not the acceptances are held by the reporting banks; 
deferred payment letters of credit described in the Treasury 
Department's Supplementary Reporting Instructions No. 1, 
Treasury Foreign Exchange Reports, Banking Forms, dated May 10, 
1968; participations purchased in loans to foreigners; loans 

to financial subsidiaries incorporated in the United States, 
50 per cent or more of which is owned by foreigners; and 
foreign assets sold, with recourse, to U.S. residents other 
than financial institutions participating in the Federal 
Reserve credit restraint program or other than direct 
investors subject to the controls administered by the 
Commerce Department or to the Export-Import Bank. "Claims 
on foreigners11 exclude: contingent claims; unutilized 
credits; claims held for account of customers; acceptances 
executed by other U.S. banks; and, in the manner determined 
in section B-l-b, above, claims on residents of Canada. 
An :'export term loan" is a claim on a foreigner having an 
original maturity of more than 1 year and for the demonstrable 
financing of one or more specific export transactions involvin 
the shipment of U.S. goods to a foreign destination or the 
performance of U.S. services abroad. The loans may be made 
directly by a bank or may be made indirectly by a bank through 
its purchase of documented loan paper. For the purpose of 
the present guidelines, such loans that are to be counted 
against an Export Term-Loan Ceiling are confined to credits 
financing U.S. exports shipped after November 30, 1969, or 
services performed abroad by U.S. individuals or U.S. firms 
after November 30, 1969. Such loans exclude debt obligations 

-16-
28 
acquired by a bank and having not more than a year of remain-
ing term until maturity (regardless of original length of 
maturity). The loans also exclude Export-Import Bank certif-
icates of participation in a pool of loans. 
(Participations 
with the Export-Import Bank in particular loans and loan 
paper purchased from the Export-Import Bank of foreign 
obligors are exempted under section II-B-2, above.) 
Developing countries are all countries other than: Abu Dhabi, 
Australia, Austria, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bermuda, 
Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic), Hong Kong, 
Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia 
Neutral Zone, Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, I-Ionaco, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Republic 
of South Africa, San Marino, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, 
Switzerland, and the United Kingdom; and other than; Albania, 
Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
Estonia, Hungary, Communist-controlled Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, 
Outer Mongolia, Poland (including any area under its provisional 
administration), Rumania, Soviet Zone of Germany and the Soviet 
sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics 
and the Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, and areas in East 
Prussia that are under the provisional administration of the 
Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and Communist-controlled 
Viet Nam. 

-17- 
29 
Nonbank Financial Institutions 
A. Types of Institutions Covered 
The group of institutions covered by the nonbank guidelines 
includes: trust companies; trust departments of commercial 
banks; mutual savings banks; insurance companies; investment 
companies; finance companies; employee retirement and pension 
funds; college endownment funds; charitable foundations; the 
U.S. branches of foreign insurance companies and of other foreign 
nonbank financial corporations; and holding companies (other than 
bank holding companies) whose domestic assets consist primarily 
of the stock of operating nonbank financial institutions. 
Investment underwriting firms, securities brokers and dealers, 
and investment counseling firms also are covered with respect 
to foreign financial assets held for their own account and are 
requested to inform their customers of the program in those cases 
where it appears applicable. Businesses whose principal activity 
is the leasing of property and equipment, and which are not 
owned or controlled by a financial institution, are not defined 
as financial institutions.. 
B. Ceiling and Priorities 
Each institution is requested to limit its aggregate holdings 
of foreign assets covered by the program to no more than 100 per 
cent of the adjusted amount of such assets held on December 31, 
1967, except for special situations discussed in K below. 

-is- 
3 0 
Institutions generally are expected to hold rio foreign 
deposits or money market instruments (other than Canadian). 
However, an institution may maintain such minimum working 
balances abroad as are needed for the efficient conduct of its 
foreign business activities. 
Among other foreign assets that are subject to the guide-
line ceiling, institutions are asked to give first priority to 
credits that represent the bona fide financing of U.S. exports, 
and second priority to credits to developing countries. In 
addition, institutions are requested not to increase the total 
of their investments in the developed countries of continental 
Western Europe beyond the amount held on December 31, 1968, 
except for new credits that are judged to be essential to the 
financing of U.S. exports. This means that reductions through 
amortizations, maturities, or sales may be offset by new 
acquisitions in these countries. However, institutions are 
expected to refrain from offsetting proceeds of sales to other 
Americans by new acquisitions from foreigners. 
Institutions may invest in noncovered foreign assets gener-
ally as desired. However, they are requested to refrain from 
making any loans and investments, noncovered as well as covered, 
which appear to be inconsistent with other aspects of the 
President's balance of payments program. Among these are the 
following: 

-19-
31 
1. Noncovered credits under this program that substitute directly 
for loans that commercial banks would have made in the absence 
of that part of the program applicable to them. 
2. Noncovered credits to developing country subsidiaries of U.S. 
corporations that would not have been permitted under the 
Department of Commerce program if made by the U.S. parent 
directly. 
3. Credits to U.S. corporate borrowers that would enable them to 
make new foreign loans and investments inconsistent with the 
Department of Commerce program. 
4. Credits to U.S. subsidiaries and branches of foreign companies 
that otherwise would have been made to, the foreign parent, or 
that would substitute for funds normally obtained from foreign 
sources. 
Covered Assets 
Covered foreign financial assets, subject to the guideline 
ceiling, include the following types of investments, except for 
"free delivery" items received after December 31, 1967: 
1. Liquid funds in all foreign countries other than Canada. 
This category comprises foreign bank deposits, including 
deposits in foreign branches of U.S. banks, and liquid money 
market claims on foreign obligors, generally defined to 
include marketable negotiable instruments maturing in 1 year 
or less. 

J 
-16-
32 
2. All other claims on non-Canadian foreign obligors written, at 
date of acquisition, to mature in 10 years or less. This 
category includes bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, and other 
credits. Excluded are bonds and notes of international 
institutions of which the United States is a member, regard-
less of maturity. Excluded also are loans guaranteed or 
participated in by the Export-Import Bank, guaranteed by the 
Department of Defense, or insured by the Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association. 
3. Net financial investment in foreign branches, subsidiaries 
and affiliates, located in developed countries other than 
1/ 
Canada.- 
Such financial investment includes payments into 
equity and other capital accounts of, and net loans and 
advances to, any foreign businesses in which the U.S. institu-
tion has an ownership interest of 10 per cent or more. 
Excluded are earnings of a foreign affiliate if they are 
directly retained in the capital accounts of the foreign 
bus iness. 
4. Long-term credits of foreign obligors domiciled in developed 
countries other than Canada.-^ Included in this category 
are bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, and other credits matur-
ing more than 10 years after date of acquisition. Excluded 
y 
See Note on page 27. 

wr 
-21-
33 
are bonds of international institutions of which the United 
States is a member. 
5. Equity securities of foreign corporations domiciled in 
developed countries other than Canada,-^ except those acquired 
after September 30, 1965, in U.S. markets from American 
investors. The test of whether an equity security is covered 
will depend on the institution's obligation to pay the 
Interest Equalization Tax on acquisition. Exclusion from 
covered assets under this program normally will be indicated 
when, in acquiring an equity security that otherwise would 
be covered, the purchasing institution receives a certificate 
of prior American ownership, or brokerage confirmation 
thereof. 
Base-Pate Holdings 
Base-date holdings for any reporting date after September 30, 
1969, are defined as: 
1. Total holdings of covered foreign assets as of the base date, 
which is December 31, 1969, for investments in Japan of the 
types described in C (3), (4), and (5) above, and December 31, 
J.967, for all other covered assets; 
2. Minus, equity securities of companies domiciled in developed 
countries (except Canada), that are included in (1) but had 
been sold to American investors prior to the current quarter; 
y 
See Note on page 27, 
ii: 
I 

34 
-19-
3, Plus, or minus, the difference between sales proceeds and 
"carrying" value of covered equities sold prior to the 
current quarter to other than American investors or in other 
than U.S. markets. On each reporting date, "carrying" value 
should be the value reflected in the institution's report 
(on Form FR 392R-68) for December 31, 1967, in the case of 
equities held on that date, and it should be cost in the 
case of equities purchased after that date. 
"Adjusted" base-date holdings, to which the 100 per cent 
ceiling applies, are equal to "base-date" holdings as defined 
above adjusted for sales during the current quarter of 
included covered equities in accordance with the procedures 
specified in (2) and (3) of the preceding paragraph. 
Noncovered Assets 
Foreign financial assets not covered by the guidelines are still 
reportable on the quarterly statistical reports to the Federal 
Reserve Banks. Such noncovered foreign investments include the 
following: 
1. All financial assets in, or claims on residents of, the 
Dominion of Canada. 
2. Bonds and notes of international institutions of which the 
United States is a member, regardless of maturity. 
3. Long-term investments in all developing countries, including 
credit instruments with final maturities of more than 10 years 

-16- 
35 
at date of acquisition, direct investment in subsidiaries and 
affiliates, and all equity securities issued by firms domiciled 
in these countries. 
4. Equity securities of firms in developed countries other than 
Canada that have been acquired in U.S. markets from American 
investors (see Point 5 above). 
Foreign assets of types covered by the program and acquired 
as "free delivery" items--that is, as new gifts or, in the 
case of trust companies or trust departments of commercial 
banks, in new accounts deposited with the institution--are not 
defined as covered assets if they were acquired after December 
31, 1967. Such assets should be reported as a memorandum 
item, as should outstanding amounts of loans guaranteed or 
participated in by the Export-Import Bank, guaranteed by the 
Department of Defense, or insured by the Foreign Credit 
Insurance Association. 
Credits to Certain U.S. Corporations 
Any loan or investment acquired by a nonbank financial 
institution after June 30, 1968, that involves the advance of 
funds to a domestic corporation which is simply a financing 
conduit (commonly known as a "Delaware sub"), and which in turn 
will transmit the funds to a foreign business, should be reported 
as a foreign asset if one or more foreigners own a majority of 
the "Delaware" corporation. The amounts of such foreign loans 

-19-
36 
or investments should be classified according to the country 
where the funds are actually to be used, not according to the 
residence of the owners of the "Delaware" corporation. 
In the event that U.S. residents hold a majority ownership 
interest in the "Delaware" corporation, no part of a loan or 
investment in such a corporation is to be regarded as a foreign 
asset of the institution. 
Leasing of Physical Goods 
The foreign leasing activities of firms which engage primarily 
in the leasing of physical assets (e.g., computers, real property, 
ships, aircraft), and which are not owned or controlled by a U.S. 
financial institution, are not reportable under the nonbank pro-
gram. However, such activities are reportable xvhen they are 
undertaken by nonbank financial institutions. These institutions 
should report the book value of any physical assets leased to 
foreigners on the appropriate line of the quarterly form they 
file with their Federal Reserve Bank. 
Investment in Certain Foreign Insurance Ventures 
Net investment in foreign insurance ventures should be reported 
as such wherever possible. In the case of any such ventures in 
which there is no segregated net investment, the U.S. insurance 
company may exclude from its foreign assets investments within 
the foreign country involved, in amounts up to 110 per cent of 
reserves accumulated on insurance sold to residents of that 

-16- 
37 
country, or (if it is larger) the minimum deposit of cash or 
securities required as a condition of doing insurance business 
within that country. 
Long-Term Credits to Developing-Country Businesses 
Institutions are requested to discuss with their Federal Reserve 
Bank in advance any future long-term loans or direct security 
placements that would involve extensions of credit of $500,000 
or more to private business borrowers located in the developing 
countr ies. 
Reporting Requirement 
Each nonbank financial institution holding, on any quarterly 
reporting date, covered assets of $500,000 or more, or total 
foreign financial assets of $5 million or more, is requested to 
file a statistical report covering its total holdings on that 
date with the Federal Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve district 
in which its principal office is located. The reports are due 
within 20 days following the close of each calendar quarter, and 
forms may be obtained by contacting the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Covered Assets in Excess of Ceiling 
1. In view of the balance of payments objectives of the program, 
it is noted that covered investments of nonbank financial 
institutions may be permitted to exceed the guideline ceiling 
to the extent that the funds for such investment are borrowed 
abroad for investment in the same country or in countries 

38 
-19-
that are subject to the same or more liberal guideline limita-
tions. Thus, funds borrowed in the developed countries of 
continental Western Europe may be used to finance investments 
in these countries and elsewhere, and funds borrowed in other 
developed countries (except Canada) may be used to finance 
investment in covered foreign assets anywhere but in the 
developed countries of continental Western Europe. Any 
institution desiring to offset foreign borrowing against 
foreign investment, however, should discuss its plans with 
the Federal Reserve Bank before entering into such an 
arrangement. 
2. While institutions are expected to make every reasonable 
effort to reduce outstanding nonexport credits in order to 
accommodate new export credits within their guideline ceiling, 
such a reduction may not be feasible for some institutions. 
An institution that can not avoid exceeding its guideline 
ceiling if it makes new loans to finance U.S. exports--
excluding loans that are guaranteed or participated in by 
the Export-Import Bank, guaranteed by the Department of 
Defense, or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Associa-
tion—should notify its Federal Reserve Bank of the prospec-
tive overage before making such loans. 
3. An institution with a guideline ceiling of less than $500,000 
may hold covered assets up to this amount if its investments 

39 
are consistent with other guideline provisions, e.g., those 
with respect to liquid funds and to nonexport credits to 
the developed countries of continental Western Europe. The 
institution is expected to file an initial statement of its 
holdings with its Federal Reserve Bank and thereafter to file 
a statement with the Bank within 20 days after the end of 
any calendar quarter when its total holdings of covered 
foreign assets have changed by as much as $100,000 since its 
previous report, even though its total holdings remain below 
the minimum reporting levels stipulated in the guidelines. 
e* """Developed countries other than Canada: continental Western Europe--
Ustria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal Republic), Italy, 
•Lechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, San 
Spain, Sweden, and Switzer land; other developed countries are: 
u Dhabi, Australia, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, Hong Kong, Iran, 
2
racl> Ireland, Japan, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, New 
ealand, Qatar, Republic of South Africa, Saudi Arabia, and the United 
£gdom. Also to be considered "developed" are the following countries: 
bania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, 
stonia, Hungary, Communist-controlled Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Outer 
^°ngolia, Poland (including any area under its provisional administration), 
umania, Soviet Zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin, Tibet, 
s
nion of Soviet Socialist Republics and the Kurile Islands, Southern 
aKhalinj and areas in East Prussia which are under the provisional 
ministration of the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, and Communist-
c<mtrolled Viet Nam. 
