Minutes for 
August 2 3 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2162 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 23, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
,<.. , ' n 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 1/ 
Mrs. Semia and Miss Key of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
The staff presented an economic and financial review, with 
en*phasis on international developments, of the kind customarily 
given in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the 
•i/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2163 
8/23/71 
-2-
review and of the individual papers presented have been placed 
in the Board's files. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the economic 
and financial review then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Kulig of the Legal Division 
Mr. Snyder of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
(copy attached as Item No. 1) to United Home Bank & Trust Co., 
t .19, ' •19/ ,.., ":' x 
concerniiig ISHi M.i..u-Y<w i'er f ovuance 
Mason City, Iowa, approving a proposed issuance of capital notes. 
SfcV 
i' . , 
c-.i 
i-- - : 
w. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter (copy attached 
' • v •.: >.. 
1 j , ; . 
)l .'..•.- „,< ^.uc. 
a 
. . . v t: 
a s Item No. 2) to Security Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles, 
' . A . • 
auM urxiii.a^ chc Jucirfioni; tuoh^d lu tiu : 
California, granting permission to establish a branch in Tokyo, 
fi •"... jit 
" ;>.i: '£<.1 it> 
S^cvefv - coui i<jeni".ia.l 1 . 
Japan. 
;. 
hci' ' r-vu t: • , 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First 
Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Marine National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida, 
a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order (copy 
attached as Item No. 3) reflecting this decision. 
Silver coin as reserves. On August 3 and 17, 1971, the 
Board discussed the consistency of an agreement between Mocatta 
Metals Corporation, New York, New York, and The Charleston 

2161 
8/23/71 
-3-
National Bank, Charleston, West Virginia, with the Board's 
published interpretation regarding the status of silver coin 
in satisfying member bank reserve requirements. At today's 
meeting, questions previously raised having been resolved, the 
Board approved unanimously a letter to Mocatta Metals Corporation 
in the form attached as Item No. 4 . 
( . 
• ; 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this 
point. 
Governor Sherrill discussed with the Board his memorandum 
•V.d 
O (•}•) <i , Ci • •• 
(pf August 19, 1971, "Comments concerning 1971 Mid-Year Performance 
' . :.T. i. • . 
'{'Review." Discussion focused particularly on the performance 
°f the various divisions of the Board staff and desired changes 
. trierein. A memorandum summarizing the decisions reached in that 
/Ci&cussion hasb 
een placed in the Secretary's confidential file. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
21.65 
O F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
8/23/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 23, 1971 
Board of Directors 
United Home Bank & Trust Co. 
Mason City, Iowa 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
m m section 204.1(f)(3) (i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $400,000 in subordinated notes by United Home Bank & Trust 
Co.. Mason City, Iowa, as proposed in your Counsel s letters of 
August 4, 1971, and August 6, 1971, with enclosures to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. It is understood that any 
advertising with respect to the obligations will, in addition 
to being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 of 
Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type 
that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors 
and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
8/23/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
August 24, 1971 
Security Pacific National Bank 
P. 0. Box 60402., Terminal Annex 
Los Angeles, California 
90060 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors grants its permission to Security-
Pacific National Bank, Los Angeles, California, pursuant to the pro-
visions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a 
branch in Tokyo, Japan, and to operate and maintain such branch sub-
ject: to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before August 1, 1972, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Tokyo. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
Poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding 
that in the conduct of the branch's operations maxinuim reliance will 
placed on resources obtained outside the United States. The Board 
has noted that as of June 30, 1971, the foreign loans and investments 
o f your bank, Security Pacific National Bank, and its subsidiaries, 
e*ceeded the guideline ceiling now in effect. The foregoing consent 

2167 
Security Pacific National Bank 
-2-
is given with the understanding that those foreign loans and invest-
ments will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with 
the guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made 
within those guidelines; and that full consideration is being given 
to the priorities for U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit 
needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

Item No. 
8/23/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. G. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
^RST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
Xa®Pa, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 90 per 
ent or more of the voting shares of 
JJtitie National Bank of St. Petersburg, 
• Petersburg, Florida, a proposed 
n e w bank. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Florida Bancorporation 
Leant"), Tampa, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for 
the 
( % P H < 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 90 per cent or more 
f the voting shares of Marine National Bank of St. Petersburg ("Bank"), 
Petersburg, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
cen notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

mm 
2169 
- 2 -
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 12929), pro-
dding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
V i e w s w i th respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
fAwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
th 
°se received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
th* factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
^agerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the 
a n k a c°ncerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
b e served, and finds that: 
Applicant controls 20 banks with aggregate deposits of 
^Proximately $424 million, representing 3.0 per cent of the total 
^rcial bank deposits in the State, and is the seventh largest 
anking organization in Florida. (All banking data are as of 
cember 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations and acqui-
ot*s approved through July 31, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed 
anK» no existing competition would be eliminated nor would 
centration be increased in any relevant area. 

Bank will be located in a growing residential area (estimated 
Population: 23,000) that is northeast of downtown St. Petersburg. 
Bank's location is in an area regarded as the fastest growing in 
heater St. Petersburg and the only area with a substantial amount 
of undeveloped land. Bank's proposed site is adjacent to one of the 
la*gest shopping centers in the St. Petersburg area. Applicant's 
closest subsidiary to Bank is also located in the St. Petersburg 
banking market, about 4.8 miles southeast of Bank and, with approxi-
mately $22.4 million of deposits, holds 2.7 per cent of deposits in 
market. Although the service area of said subsidiary overlaps 
of Bank, it appears that the subsidiary does not derive a 
portion of its business from Bank's proposed service 
a r e a; and the service areas are separated by marshland and a new 
interstate highway. No other subsidiary of Applicant is within 19 
toad miles of Bank. 
Consummation of the proposal would not give Applicant a 
j 
°minant position in the market which is defined as approximated by 
tllG St. Petersburg Peninsula south of Route 688. The St. Petersburg 
^ k e t is comprised: of 19 bnnks' including six holding companies 
hold, in the aggregate, 45.0 per cent of deposits in that 
^ k e t , with Applicant controlling the smallest percentage of 
j 
ePosits (2.7 per cent). In addition to holding companies, the 
^levant market is served by two banking groups and eight independent 

2171 
- 4 -
banks, Therefore, it appears that acquisition of Bank should enable 
Applicant to compete more effectively with the larger banking 
°rganizations in the relevant area. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
fchat consummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
affect competition in any relevant area. The financial condition, 
Management, and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are 
regarded as generally satisfactory. Bank has no operating financial 
history, it will open with satisfactory capital, and it will be 
to draw on Applicant for its management. Its prospects are 
^vorable. The banking factors are consistent with approval. Bank s 
pr°posed location is adjacent to a major shopping center, in an area 
^here residents and businesses generally do their banking with down-
to^n St. Petersburg banks. The proposed bank would provide services 
m°re conveniently to area customers, and should also stimulate 
business activity in the community. Bank will receive from Applicant 
technical and managerial resources, a source for placement of excess 
funds in th e f o r m cf i o a n participations, and aid in raising capital 
needed to support expanded operations. Therefore, considerations 
Elating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
*en<1 some weight toward approval of the application, it is the 
Sard's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 

It Is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
bindings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
aPproved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consum-
mated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
thf 
ls Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0r<*er; and provided further that (c) Marine National Bank of St. 
Pet ersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida, shall be opened for business 
n o t later than six months after the date of this Order. Each of 
the 
Periods described in (b) and (c) above may be extended for good 
a U S e by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
PUrsuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 23, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
H-VO 
< o 
Item No. 4 
8/23/71 
/ » r i D R E : s ' j 
o f f i c i a l 
c d d k e s p d n d c n u e 
r a 
T H E 
U O A K O 
August 24, 1971 
. Henry C . .Jar ecki, Chairman 
Mocatta Metals Corporation 
' 
Broad Street 
New York, New York 10004 
' , 
' 
Dear Mr. Jar ecki: 
I am writing in response Lo your request that the Board 
determine whether a member bank may, consistently with the Board's 
Published interpretation regarding the status of silver coin in 
satisfying member bank reserve requirements, count as reserves coin 
held by it: pursuant to an agreement of the kind dated January 6, 1971, 
between Mocatta Metals Corporation and The Charleston National Bank. 
IfnMer this agreement, the bank grants to Mocatta, for a fee 
equal to a certain percentage per year on the amount of silver coins 
suirjeet 
the agreement, an irrevocable option to purchase from the 
baiik a dollar amount of face value of silver coins at any time or from 
time to tir^e, in whole or in part, upon demand at a price equal to the 
face value of the coins to be so purchased. 
The agreement provides further that all or part of the coins 
subject to the option may be used at any time by the bank in good 
talth at face amount to meet depositors' claims. Coins would not be 
deemed to be used in good faith at face amount to meet depositors' 
claims if such coins are directly or indirectly transferred, assigned, 
s°ld, or disposed of for consideration greater than face amount or 
Se<l to discharge obligations of the bank or others at greater than 
amount. The bank must give notice to Mocatta no later than two 
ays after it has used any silver coins to meet depositors' claims. 
The Board has evaluated the agreement and concluded that it 
*nvolves sn option in favor of Mocatta as a result of which the bank 
,°es not have the full and unrestricted right to use the silver coins 
luv°lved at any time to meet customers' demands within the meaning of 

Mr. Henry G. Jarecki 
- 2 -
2174 
the Board's interpretation (Code of Federal Regulations, Title 12, 
section 204.116). The limitation on the. bank's ability to use the coins 
to meet depositors' claims to situations in vzhich the bank pays them out 
in good faith at face amount" is regarded by the Board as having the 
actual or practical effect of depriving the bank of the unrestricted 
right to use the coins both in the ordinary course of business and in 
the event of insolvency (or other crisis). 
Furthermore, in the Board's judgment, the reasonable expectation 
the parties is that silver coins held by the bank pursuant to the 
agreement (or similar silver coins) will be available to Mocatta upon 
exercise by Mocatta of its option. To prevent coins from being counted 
as reserves in such circumstances, the Board's interpretation expressly 
states that "A bank does not have 'the full and unrestricted right1 
within the meaning of the [interpretation] if the bank is prevented, 
legally or practically, by virtue of customer agreements, undertakings, 
arrang ements, from using the currency or coin at any time to meet 
customers' demands." 
The Board has asked that I convey to you its view that a member 
anlc that counts silver coin held by it pursuant to an agreement such 
a s that between Mocatta and Charleston National Bank would be acting 
^consistently with both the letter and the spirit of the Board's 
lnterpretation. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant: Secretary 
