Minutes for 
September 18, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3637 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 18, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mes srs. Greenspun and Shull of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Achor of the Division of Examinations 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Peoples Trust Company of Bergen County, 
1 
Hackensack, New Jersey, approving the establish-
ment of an in-town branch and commenting on plans 
t o strengthen the bank's capital position. 

3638 
9/18/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, 
2 
Summit, New Jersey, approving the establishment 
of an additional branch (drive-in facility) in 
New Providence, commenting on recent strengthening 
of the bank's capital position, and approving an 
investment in bank premises. 
Letter to Farmers and Merchants Bank of Rockford, 
3 
Rockford, Washington, approving the establishment 
of a branch north of the city limits of Cheney, 
Spokane County. 
Standards for delegation of authority. Governor Mitchell 
observed that the number of branch applications still coming before 
the Board was rather substantial despite the recent delegation of 
authority to the Federal Reserve Banks. Mr. Egertson brought out that 
the main reason was that under the present rules an application from 
any bank with a capital inadequacy was to come to the Board. Governor 
Robertson suggested that a review be made in order to determine whether 
some relaxation of the rules would seem warranted. Governor Brimmer 
commented that there could perhaps be an intermediate step, in which 
applications would be brought before the Board only if the Board's 
staff believed significant questions existed. 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The New York 
Bank for Savings, New York, New York, into Queens County Savings Bank, 
also of New York, under the charter of the latter and the title of the 
former. The conclusion of the report would read as follows: 

3639 
9/18/67 
-3-
The competition between the New York Bank for Savings 
and Queens County Savings Bank, New York, to be eliminated 
upon consummation of this proposal is not viewed as signifi-
cant, and the number and variety of financial institutions 
offering convenient facilities for savings banks' customers 
are substantial. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether the effect of the 
proposed merger on competition would not be more than slightly adverse. 
Given the progressive erosion of the number of savings banks in the New 
York City area, it seemed to him there must be a point at which a 
further loss of a sizable institution would have more than a slightly 
adverse effect. The New York Bank for Savings was third largest of 
fifty mutual savings banks with headquarters in New York City, and the 
bank that would result from this merger would rank second. Moreover, 
Queens County Savings Bank, with $300 million in deposits, was not a 
small bank. 
Governor Robertson observed that the New York Bank for Savings 
derived about 8 per cent of its deposits from Queens County, and 8 per 
cent of the bank's total deposits would approach $150 million. It 
seemed to him questionable whether one could describe as only slightly 
adverse the elimination of competition for such an amount of business. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the New York Bank for Savings 
drew only 51 per cent of its deposits from Manhattan, which indicated 
that the bank must be competing in all the "bedroom" communities. He 
would not want to see the Board pass lightly over the significance of 
this proposed merger. 

3 P 4 O 
9/18/67 
-4-
Governor Mitchell remarked that no office of either bank was 
within five miles of any office of the other bank. If the service 
areas were determined through a market survey such as the Board had 
conducted in Orlando, Florida, he believed it would be demonstrated 
that a separation of five miles between offices was more important 
than the derivation of business according to political subdivisions. 
Queens County was a large area; there could be several offices within 
it that did not compete with each other. 
Governor Brimmer said his point was that the time had come 
when the markets affected by mergers of this kind should be examined 
more carefully. At some point an additional merger would have adverse 
competitive effects. 
Governor Maisel suggested that there might be merit in permit-
ting a traditionally downtown bank to broaden its operations geographi-
cally. It might be worth while, he thought, to ask the Banking Markets 
Section to make a broad-scale study of the markets involved. 
Chairman Martin commented on difficulties being faced by savings 
banks, after which Governor Mitchell observed that while a market study 
such as Governor Maisel had suggested should be made if the Board were 
the action agency, time would hardly permit such a study for purposes 
of an advisory report on competitive factors. 
In response to an inquiry for the views of the Banking Markets 
Section, Mr. Shull commented that in the absence of a comprehensive 

3641 
9/18/67 
-5-
market study it was not possible to develop more than general answers 
to the question of present or potential competition between the two 
institutions. Even assuming that there was some competition, which 
would be eliminated, the question remained as the extent to which the 
proposed merger would have an over-all competitive effect, in view of 
the existence of numerous other institutions that could provide similar 
services. 
Further discussion dealt with the problem of determining what 
type of report would be justified on the basis of presently available 
information. Several suggestions were made, and at the conclusion of 
the discussion the report was approved for transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation in a form in which the conclusion read 
as follows: 
Such competition as exists between the New York Bank 
for Savings and Queens County Savings Bank, New York, 
would be eliminated upon consummation of this proposal. 
However, in view of the substantial number and variety of 
financial institutions offering convenient facilities for 
savings banks' customers, the amount of competition to be 
eliminated does not appear to be so significant as to 
cause the overall effect of the transaction on competition 
to be more than slightly adverse. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Adams County National Bank, Littlestown, Pennsylvania, and East 
Berlin National Bank, East Berlin, Pennsylvania, was approved unani-
mously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as 
follows: 

3642 
9/18/67 
-6-
Very little existing or potential competition would be 
eliminated by the proposed merger of Adams County National 
Bank, Littlestown, Pennsylvania, and East Berlin National 
Bank, East Berlin, Pennsylvania. On balance, the effect on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
Messrs. Smith, Egertson, Greenspun, Shull, and Achor then with-
drew from the meeting. 
Annex building. The Commission of Fine Arts had reacted 
adversely to a design for the Board's proposed annex building that 
included a penthouse to contain most of the mechanical equipment. 
Therefore, the Board's architects, Harbeson Hough Livingston 6c Larson, 
at meetings with the Board on July 27 and September 13, 1967, presented 
two alternative designs. The design presented July 27 would house most 
of the mechanical equipment below ground, with a penthouse of minimum 
size. However, because of several disadvantages, including substantial 
added cost and the loss of some garage and office space, the Board 
requested further exploration of possibilities. The design presented 
by the architects on September 13 again placed most of the mechanical 
equipment at the top of the building, encased in a windowless wall flush 
with the lower stories but with the terrace floor recessed. The Board 
members present (except Governor Mitchell) expressed a preference for 
that design, in view of the cost and related considerations. 
(This 
design is referred to hereinafter as number 1, while the design pre-
sented on July 27 is identified as number 2.) 
At today's meeting Mr. Shepardson stated that following the 
expression of the Board's preference the architects delivered design 

9/18/67 
-7-
number 1 to the Fine Arts Commission. However, the Secretary and 
Administrative Officer of the Commission expressed doubts regarding 
that design and, being aware that a design with the mechanical equip-
ment underground had been developed, asked that it also be submitted. 
Accordingly, Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson visited Chairman 
Walton of the Commission to discuss the two alternatives. Chairman 
Walton was enthusiastic about design number 2 and expressed the view 
that it would be favored by the Commission as a whole. Governor 
Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson pointed out the practical disadvantages, 
including the additional cost of at least $1.6 million, but Chairman 
Walton did not find those arguments persuasive. He called attention 
to other projects that had been changed, even at considerable cost, to 
meet the requirements of the Commission. 
Mr. Shepardson said he and Governor Sherrill then requested an 
opportunity for discussion with the Commission before it reached a deci-
sion. It appeared that the Commission would have a two-day meeting on 
September 19-20, the first day of which would be a closed session, with 
an agenda that would preclude a special arrangement for representatives 
°f the Board to appear. Chairman Walton inquired whether the Board 
would, in fact, want to have its project discussed in open session, and 
Mr. Shepardson replied that the record should reflect the Board's pref-
erence clearly. Chairman Walton reiterated that he and the Secretary of 
the Commission did not favor design number 1 but would approve the other. 

> 4 4 
9/18/67 
-8-
Governor Sherrill added that he and Mr. Shepardson had withdrawn 
the second design, so that only the Board's preferred design remained 
with the Fine Arts Commission. It appeared that if the other design was 
submitted it would be approved. The question, therefore, was whether 
the Board wanted to submit that design or to consider still other 
alternatives. 
Governor Daane stated that he was prepared to accept that design 
if the public record showed that the Board was required to agree to the 
greater expenditure. He inquired how much delay there would be if, for 
purposes of making the record unmistakably clear, only the one design 
was submitted and a rejection received before the other was submitted. 
Governor Sherrill replied that the Fine Arts Commission met 
only monthly. He expressed the view that if the Board was prepared to 
submit the second design at all, it might as well do so now. 
Mr. Shepardson commented that the choice seemed to be between 
accepting the second design or starting over again, which would involve 
a significant delay--probably a year rather than a month. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the Fine Arts Commission was an 
advisory body. It was his view that the Board should not lightly accept 
an advisory preference in the circumstances. 
Mr. Shepardson noted in reply that although the Fine Arts Com-
mission was an advisory body, the organization with legal authority to 
approve or disapprove the project being the National Capital Planning 

«645 
9/18/67 
-9-
Commission, the Executive Director of the Planning Commission had stated 
that in no case had he known the Planning Commission to rule contrary to 
a firm recommendation of the Fine Arts Commission. 
Governor Brimmer said he had raised the point because he believed 
that it might be advisable to present the Board's preferred design to 
the Planning Commission, even with the knowledge that it would be 
rejected. In his view, the Board would be better protected from criti-
cism if the record showed a rejection of the less expensive design not 
only by the Fine Arts Commission but also by the National Capital Plan-
ning Commission. 
Governor Maisel expressed the opinion that if the Fine Arts 
Commission had never been overruled by the Planning Commission, the 
Board could properly proceed on the theory that no exception would be 
made in this instance. It was his recollection of the September 13 
meeting that the Board had agreed that the preferred design would be 
submitted to the Fine Arts Commission, and then, if the decision was 
adverse, the other design would be submitted. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that the Board had been concerned 
from the beginning about the attractiveness of the annex building. At 
°ne stage there had been a suggestion that the views of a panel of 
experts be solicited. Now a panel of experts was disposed to reject 
the design submitted, and he thought the Board should heed that profes-
sional advice. 

364.6 
9/18/67 
-10-
Governor Daane reiterated that if it was clear that the Board 
was not allowed to build the less expensive structure he would go along 
with the additional expenditure. However, he wondered if the record 
would not be clearer if the designs were presented separately, even 
with a delay of a month. 
Governor Sherrill suggested that the delay might be avoided, 
but the purpose of making a clear record accomplished, if it was empha-
sized in submitting the two concepts that the Board had voted in favor 
°f the less expensive design. There seemed to be no question about the 
outcome, but the record would be established. 
Governor Robertson said that even if the Fine Arts Commission 
would approve the one design he had reservations about proceeding with 
construction according to that plan. In his view, the Board should not 
embark upon any project that would not meet its needs fully. He sug-
gested that different architects might be retained, advised regarding 
the Board's needs, including requirements for office and parking space, 
and instructed to prepare a new design. As things now stood, it would 
appear necessary to renew exploration with the Interior Department of 
the possibility of constructing the so-called north garage because of 
the reduction in parking space that could be provided if the design 
apparently favored by the Fine Arts Commission were used. 
There ensued a general discussion of the degree of urgency for 
additional office space, in the light of projected growth of staff. 

364.7 
9/18/67 
-11-
Questions were raised regarding whether the present lease for outside 
space could be renewed or extended sufficiently to provide for the 
Board's needs for the additional period during which such space would 
have to be rented if the Board decided to develop a different design. 
There was also discussion of ratios of employees to number of parking 
spaces in the Government and elsewhere, and of the capacity of the 
proposed north garage, including the number of spaces that might be 
available to the Board after an allocation was made to the Department 
of the Interior. 
Governor Brimmer expressed objection to deferring the start of 
the annex building for as much as two years to permit the development 
of a new design. He noted, among other things, that rising construc-
tion costs might more than offset whatever economies were achieved. 
Governor Daane agreed that a delay to permit new plans to be 
drawn would be likely to result in a substantial increase in costs. 
Governor Sherrill spoke in the same vein, commenting that fees 
Payable to the present architects plus the cost of developing a new 
design could result in a greater expenditure than the difference between 
the costs of the two alternative plans. He spoke in favor of proceeding 
with design number 2 and reopening negotiations for construction of the 
north garage. He had thought the north garage was needed even with 
design number 1, and since the use of the other scheme would result in 
a le sser number of parking spaces he felt even more certain of the need. 

3648 
9/18/67 
-12-
Chairman Martin then commented that, all things considered, it 
appeared to him that it would be best to go ahead on the basis of design 
number 2. He asked for Mr. Shepardson's advice with regard to the 
possible alternatives. 
Mr. Shepardson replied that while he believed either design 
would result in an attractive building, practical considerations pointed 
to moving ahead on the basis of design number 2, with further explora-
tion of the question of the north garage. It seemed certain that the 
other design would not be approved, and if the project were delayed to 
permit development of new plans escalation of costs might offset any 
savings. The delay could also cause problems in terms of interim space 
needs. 
The Chairman then turned to Governor Sherrill, who said that 
he concurred with Mr. Shepardson's view. While he did not like to be 
forced into extra expenditures, it seemed that without doubt the Fine 
Arts Commission would reject design number 1 and approve the other. 
Therefore, after careful review of the alternatives he came out in 
favor of accepting that verdict and paying the premium that was involved 
in the use of the other design. 
Chairman Martin expressed the view that if the Board was going 
to move in that direction, design number 2 should be submitted promptly, 
although the Board's position should be made completely clear in the 
record. 

3649 
9/18/67 
-13-
Governor Brimmer repeated that he thought the record should 
include, if possible, a written rejection of design number 1 by the 
Fine Arts Commission, if not by the National Capital Planning Com-
mission also. 
Governor Maisel said that he would support a decision to go 
ahead with design number 2 even if it should develop that construction 
of the north garage was precluded. At this moment he favored the north 
garage project, but he did not believe that a joint decision was neces-
sary at this particular time. 
Other members of the Board commented on advantages that they 
saw, if the Board agreed to accept a decision by the Fine Arts Commis-
sion in favor of design number 2, in proceeding promptly with further 
negotiations in respect to the north garage, and Chairman Martin then 
said that an understanding to proceed with those negotiations would be 
part of the decision. 
The Chairman asked Governor Robertson whether the latter wished 
to press his suggestion for the development of new plans, in response 
to which Governor Robertson indicated that he would not, although he 
continued to feel that the decision confronting the Board did not offer 
3 completely satisfactory solution. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that the Board make a decision 
under which design number 1 would be submitted to the Commission of Fine 
Arts with a request for favorable consideration, with the understanding, 

9/18/67 
-14-
however, that if that design was rejected by the Commission but design 
number 2 was approved, the Board would accept that decision and proceed 
accordingly. This also contemplated that negotiations would be reopened 
with respect to the possibility of constructing the so-called north 
garage. 
There was agreement with the procedure suggested by the Chairman. 
Secretary's Note: In a letter dated 
September 20, 1967, the Chairman of 
the Commission of Fine Arts advised 
that the Commission had approved 
design number 2 for the annex build-
ing. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On September 14, 1967, 
a letter was sent over the signature of 
Chairman Martin to the Secretary of the 
Treasury requesting that the name of 
Samuel I. Katz, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance, be added to the 
list of members of the Board's staff who 
have been authorized to inspect informa-
tion returns made by commercial banks 
under the Interest Equalization Tax Act. 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of a letter 
sent today to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco approving a special Grade 16 
maximum of $22,000 in the Bank's employee 
salary structure, as requested by the Bank 
in its letter of September 8, 1967. This 
letter was sent under the authorization 
given at the Board meeting on June 23, 1967. 
On behalf of the Board, Governor Robertson 
today authorized travel by Robert Solomon, 
Adviser to the Board and Director, Division 
of International Finance, during the period 
September 22-October 1, 1967, to attend, as 
an adviser to the U.S. delegation, the annual 

3651 
9/18/67 
-15-
meetings of the International Monetary Fund 
and the International Bank for Reconstruction 
and Development to be held in Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil, September 25-29, such travel to be on 
an actual expense basis, including official 
entertainment. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Linda Lee Sink as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,925, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Mildred C. Harris as Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
with compensation at the rate of $1.97 per hour when actually employed, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Lucinda Stilwell, Clerk, Division of International Finance, from 
$3 ,925 to $4,269 per annum, effective September 24, 1967. 
Linda M. Snyder, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, from 
$5 ,507 to $6,451 per annum, effective September 24, 1967. 1/ 
Transfer 
Katherine M. Bulow, from the position of Special Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner in the Division of Examinations to the position of 
Secretary in the Division of Research and Statistics, with an increase 
in basic annual salary from $5,736 to $5,859, effective upon assuming 
her new duties. 
Leave without pay 
Virginia F. Gums, Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
granted additional leave of absence without pay from September 10, 1967, 
through the end of the month. 
i./ Change in title from Programmer (Trainee) . 

:9/18/67 
-16-
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising that 
Bishop Hart, Bindery Worker, Division of 
Administrative Services, had filed appli-
cation for retirement effective October 1, 
1967. 
3 6 5 ' 
• - t -. • 

3653 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Peoples Trust Company of Bergen County, 
Hackensack, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Peoples Trust Company of Bergen 
County, Hackensack, New Jersey, of a branch office at the south-
west corner of the intersection of Linden and Anderson Streets, 
Hackensack, New Jersey, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
In approving this branch, consideration has been given 
to your bank's satisfactory management and in addition the Board 
understands plans are being formulated to sell additional capital 
stock in order to strengthen your bank's capital position. More-
over, it has been determined that the proposed branch will serve 
the convenience and needs of the community and establishment of 
the branch will not tend to create an undesirable competitive 
situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

RE^. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
OF THE 
9/18/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, 
Summit, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Summit and Elizabeth 
Trust Company, Summit, New Jersey, to be located in New Providence, 
New Jersey, approximately 1,800 feet south of your bank's existing 
New Providence office, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. In approving this branch, 
consideration has been given to your bank's satisfactory management, 
and it is noted that your bank's capital structure has recently been 
strengthened by the sale of $1.1 million in capital notes. Moreover, 
it has been determined that the proposed bran-h would serve the con-
venience and needs of the community and it would not tend to create 
an undesirable competitive situation. 
Pursuant to Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, the 
Board also approves an additional investment in bank premises of 
$200,000 by Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company, Summit, New Jersey. 
It is understood that $75,000 of the $200,000 investment is to be 
used to provide quarters for the proposed branch and the remainder 
is to be used to expand your bank's main office. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

b o a r d d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Farmers and Merchants Bank of Rockford, 
Rockford, Washington. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment by Farmers and Merchants Bank of 
Rockford, Rockford, Washington, of a branch on the southeast 
corner of the intersection of U. S. Highway 10 and Marshall Lake 
Road, north of the city limits of Cheney, Spokane County, 
Washington, provided the branch is established within six 
months from the date of this letter. 
The Board has approved this branch after giving con-
sideration to your bank's management and capital structure. 
Moreover, it has been determined that the proposed branch will 
serve the convenience and needs of the community and that it 
will not tend to create an undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

MLRt^*"' 
b o a r d d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
> 6 5 6 
Item No. 4 
9/18/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C I 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 18, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves a special Grade 16 
maximum of $22,000 in the salary structure for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, effective October 1, 1967, as 
requested in your letter of September 8, 1967. 
' ' : ' 
. . • C'.*. c . •.cre • L 
: 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
