PR 609 
<Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
August 10, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

2002 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 10, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs and Miss Key of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on August 5, 1971, and by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on August 9, 1971, of the rates on 
discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 

8/10/71 
-2-
The Board approved unanimously the application of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of the 
Fenton Bank, Fenton, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an order 
(copy attached as Item No. 1) reflecting that decision. 
United Bank Corporation. The application of United Bank 
Corporation of New York, Albany, New York, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of State Bank of Albany, 
Albany, New York, and the successor by merger to Liberty National 
Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, New York, was approved unanimously, 
and issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 2) reflecting this 
decision was authorized. 
Export Expansion Finance Act. The Board approved unanimously, 
subject to certain editorial changes, a proposed letter to the Office 
of Management and Budget regarding enrolled bill S. 581, the Export 
Expansion Finance Act of 1971. A copy of the letter, as transmitted, 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
Quarterly report on financial developments. After discussion 
of a draft of report on financial developments in the second quarter 
of 1971, prepared for transmittal to the Joint Economic Committee, the 
Board approved the report unanimously subject to certain editorial 
changes. A copy of the letter transmitting the report is attached 
a s Item No. 4; a copy of the report, as transmitted, has been placed 
in the Board's files. 

2004 
8/10/71 
-3-
International developments. In a commentary on current inter-
national financial developments, Mr. Solomon reported on the substantial 
flow out of United States dollars into foreign currencies, especially 
the Swiss franc. There followed a general discussion of these develop-
ments and of actions with respect to increases in the System's swap 
network that might be recommended by the Special Manager of the System 
Open Market Account. It was generally agreed that if broad increases 
in swap lines ^should be contemplated it would be appropriate to have 
on record a letter from the Treasury, on behalf of the Administration, 
confirming the fact that such action reflected Government policy. 
Voluntary foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer commented 
on a proposed Board press release reflecting pending legislation that 
would exempt export credit from the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. He noted that the use of part of the proposed release was 
contingent upon the issuance of a related press release by the Commerce 
Department, which was not yet a certainty. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2005 
Item No. 1 
8/10/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D• C, 
the Matter of the Application of 
1 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
1 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
' 
approval of acquisition of more than 
1 
per cent of the voting shares of Fenton ' 
Bank, Fenton, Missouri. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval 
the acquisition of more than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
penton Bank, Fenton, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Missouri 
Commissioner of Finance, and requested his views and recommendation, 
•^he Commissioner responded that his office considered the proposal 
a very progressive step for banking in Missouri. 

2006 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 15, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11538), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
Was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company and the 
third largest banking organization in Missouri, controls eighteen 
hanks with aggregate deposits of $866.7 million, representing 7.6 
Per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through June 30, 
As a result of consummation of the proposal herein, Applicant's 
Position in relation to the State's other bank holding companies and 
banking organizations would remain, _ unchanged. 
Bank ($14.1 million), located 16 miles southwest of downtown 
St. Louis in the extreme southern portion of St. Louis County, is the 

20C7 
-3-
fifth largest of the eight banks competing in its primary service area, 
with 9.9 per cent of that area's deposits. The addition of Bank to 
Applicant's system would give Applicant four subsidiaries in the St. 
Louis banking market; however, Applicant would control only 1.9 per 
cent of the deposits therein and rank sixth among the bank holding com-
panies operating in the St, Louis market. Hone of Applicant's present 
subsidiaries compete with Bank to any significant extent, and the 
development of such competition in the future appears remote because 
natural and man-made barriers, and the presence of banks in the 
intervening areas. The overall effect on competition should be 
P^ocompetitive since Bank's acquisition by Applicant will dissolve 
an existing affiliation of Bank with one of the banks operating in 
its service area. It does not appear, therefore, that significant 
listing competition would be eliminated or significant potential 
competition foreclosed by consummation of Applicant's proposal, 
°r that there would be undue adverse effects on any bank in the 
ar®a involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
3Utn°iation of the proposed acquisition would not have significant 
adverse effects on competition in any relevant area. The banking 
^actors, as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank, 
regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Con-
8iderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served lend some weight in support of approval. Applicant 

intends to assist Bank in expanding its physical facilities; moreover, 
affiliation with Applicant should enable Bank to offer a wider range 
°f banking services, including bond portfolio management, expanded 
consumer lending, and data processing. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and 
fchat the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 10, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Daane, and 
Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2000 
Item No. 2 
8/10/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED BANK CORPORATION OF NEW YORK, 
Albany, New York, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares of 
State Bank of Albany, Albany, New York, 
and 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the successor by merger to Liberty 
National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, 
New York. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Bank Corporation of 
New York, Albany, New York, for the Board's prior approval of action 
whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of State Bank of 
Albany, Albany, New York ("State Bank"), and 100 per cent of the 

voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor 
by merger to Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, 
New York ("Liberty National"). (Liberty National is to be merged 
into a nonoperating bank that has significance only as a vehicle 
to accomplish the acquisition of all the shares of Liberty National; 
accordingly, acquisition of the shares of the successor bank is 
treated as an acquisition of shares of Liberty National.) 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and to the Superintendent of Banks of the State of 
New York, and requested their views and recommendations. Both the 
Comptroller and the Superintendent recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 15, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11539), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to (the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 

2011 
-3-
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly-organized corporation. Upon 
consummation of this proposal, Applicant will control $1.2 billion 
in deposits, representing 1.4 per cent of total commercial bank 
deposits in New York, and would become the thirteenth largest banking 
organization and sixth largest multi-bank holding company in the 
State. (Banking data, unless otherwise noted, are as of December 30, 
1970, and reflect holding company acquisitions approved through 
June 30, 1971.) 
State Bank ($743 million in deposits), operates in the 
Fourth Banking District and has 31 offices located therein. It 
controls 34 per cent (as of June 30, 1970) of the commercial bank 
deposits in the relevant market, which is approximated by Albany, 
Schenectady and Rensselaer Counties and the southern portion of 
Saratoga County. On the basis of deposits, State Bank is the largest 
of fifteen banking organizations in that market. 
Liberty National ($452 million in deposits) operates 
its 34 offices in the Ninth Banking District, and controls 14 per 
cent (as of June 30, 1970) of the commercial bank deposits in the 
relevant market, which is approximated by Erie and Niagara Counties. 
On the basis of deposits, Liberty National is the third largest of 
the ten banking organizations in that market. 

-4-
201,C 
State Bank and Liberty National do not compete with each 
other to any meaningful extent, and it appears unlikely they would 
do so in the reasonably foreseeable future. No office of one is 
located within 185 miles of the other, and at the present time 
New York law prevents either from branching or merging outside its 
Banking District. It appears that affiliation of the two banks 
in a holding company system would enable Liberty National to 
compete more effectively with the larger Buffalo banks and would 
result in a banking organization of sufficient size to compete with 
the major bank holding companies now doing business in upstate New 
York or planning to do so in the future. The affiliation should 
not raise significant barriers to entry into the relevant markets 
nor have an undue adverse effect on other banks there, many of 
which are or propose to become subsidiaries of holding companies. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not have a significant adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial condition of each bank appears satisfactory; 
both are regarded as having competent managements and favorable 
Prospects. It appears that Applicant will begin operations in 
satisfactory condition and with competent management; its prospects, 
which are largely dependent upon those of its two proposed subsidiaries, 
also appear favorable. Affiliation of the two banks should enable 
each to offer improved and expanded services. Liberty National could 
r 
W 
ii 
\f

-5-
2013 
expand its services in areas such as leasing and computer services. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the 
public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummmated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 10, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Daane, and 
Maisel. 
M 
lir-
CS igned) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
"1 
4 
t 
[SEAL] 

2014 
pfcov*, 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
8/10/71 
August 10, 1971 
Mr. Wilfred H. R o m m e l 
As si stant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 2G503 
Dear M r . Rommel: 
I a m writing in response to your request for the Board's views on 
the enrolled bill, S. 581, the Export Expansion Finance Act of 1971. 
Two features of this legislation are questionable, in the Board's 
judgment. One would remove the Export-Import Banlc from the 
budget totals, thus freeing the Bank's operations from restraints 
imposed upon other Federal programs. The second would exempt 
export credits from the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program; 
it seems likely that this exemption will lead to an increase in 
capital outflows without an equivalent increase in exports, thus 
Weakening the overall balance of payments. 
However, since Congress has considered and rejected the views 
expressed by the Board on these two points, and other provisions 
of the legislation could prove useful in promoting exports, the 
Board believes that the President should approve the bill. 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur F. Burns 
i 

2015 
Item No. 4 
8/10/71 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
V / A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
August 12, 1971 
The Honorable William Proxmire 
Chairman 
Joint Economic Committee 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear M r , 
Chairman: 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made with 
your Committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
on financial developments in the second quarter of 1971. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosure 
