MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 16, 1968 

43 OS 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, December 16, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics^ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance—' 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Semia of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Economic review. A review of the kind customarily offered in 
advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was presented. 
The reports were based to some extent on materials that had been pre-
pared for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee, and copies of the rele-
vant documents have been placed in the Committee's files. 
The discussion that followed included a suggestion that the 
staff consider possibilities for developing more timely analyses in 
the periodic economic presentations, recognizing that the availability 
schedules of a number of the statistical series presented problems in 
that regard. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4309 
12/16/68 
-2-
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, 
Partee, and Axilrod of the Division of Research and Statistics and 
Messrs. Solomon and Sammons of the Division of International Finance 
then withdrew from the meeting. 
Foreign banking matters. The following letters were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover International Finance 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to 
purchase shares of Compania Financiera Dominicana S.A., 
Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to 
purchase shares of Weathers Aviation, Inc., San Juan, 
Puerto Rico. 
Letter to Central National Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland, 
3 
Ohio, approving the organization of an Edge corporation 
to be known as Central Cleveland International Corpora-
tion, Cleveland, Ohio, and enclosing a preliminary permit. 
Letter to Continental International Finance Corporation, 
4 
Chicago, Illinois, granting consent to purchase Class "B" 
shares of Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran, 
Tehran, Iran. 
Letter to First Chicago International Finance Corporation, 
5 
Chicago, Illinois, granting consent to purchase additional 
shares of McCan Franchises, Ltd., Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada. 
Letter to First National City Bank, New York, New York, 
6 
granting consent to purchase, through its "City Office" 
branch in London, England, all of the stock of First 
National City Bank (Switzerland) S.A., to be formed in 
Geneva, Switzerland. 

4310 
12/16/68 
-3-
Reports on competitive factors. Upon consideration of a draft 
of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities 
of The Quaker City National Bank, Quaker City, Ohio, by First National 
Bank of Cambridge, Cambridge, Ohio, Board members were of the opinion 
that the competitive effect of the proposed transaction should be 
described as substantially adverse rather than adverse. There was also 
agreement that the body of the report should be revised to reflect more 
of the analysis by the Banking Markets Section. 
The report was then approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller in a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed acquisition of The Quaker 
City National Bank by First National Bank of Cambridge would 
eliminate existing and potential competition, and reduce 
banking alternatives in Guernsey County from three to two. 
The overall competitive effect of the transaction would be 
substantially adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Southern California First National Bank, San Diego, 
California, with First National Bank of San Diego, San Diego, 
California, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency. The conclusion stated that the proposed merger (which 
was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of Southern 
California First National Bank by California First National Corpora-
tion, a newly-formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 

4311 
12/16/68 
-4-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Alaska National Bank of Fairbanks, Fairbanks, Alaska, with 
Miners and Merchants Bank of Alaska, Nome, Alaska, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
Hearings under Bank Holding Company Act. As noted in a 
memorand um dated December 10, 1968, from the Legal Division, The 
Citizens and Southern Holding Company, Atlanta, Georgia, had filed an 
application for a determinat ion that the insurance activities planned 
to be undertaken by proposed nonbanking subsidiaries, American Southern 
Life Insurance Company, Inc., and The Citizens and Southern Agency, Inc., 
were of the kind described in section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act so as to make inapplicable the prohibitions of section 4 of 
the Act respecting the acquisition or retention of shares in nonbanking 
companies. Since the Act requires that such determinations be made on 
the basis of the record made at a hearing, tentative arrangements had 
been made for a hearing on January 29, 1969, at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta. The Civil Service Commission had selected Leonard J. 
Ralston as hearing examiner. 
The issuance of the hearing order was authorized; a copy is 
attached as Item No. 7. James R. Smith and George Hibbert, Counsel and 
Assistant Counsel, respectively, of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
were designated as Board counsel for the proceeding. 

4312 
12/16/68 
-5-
As noted in a memorandum dated December 10, 1968, from the 
Legal Division, First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, had 
filed an application for a determination that the insurance activities 
planned to be undertaken by two nonbanking subsidiaries, either Ed D. 
Smith & Sons, Inc., and First Security Life Insurance Company of Texas 
or two corporations to be formed by the applicant, were of the kind 
described in section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act so as to 
make inapplicable the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act respecting 
the acquisition or retention of shares in nonbanking companies. 
Tentative arrangements had been made for a hearing on January 15, 1969, 
at the Salt Lake City Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco, and the Civil Service Commission had selected Leonard J. 
Ralston as hearing examiner. 
The issuance of the hearing order was authorized; a copy is 
attached as Item No. 8. Walter F. Scott, William L. Cooper, Louis E. 
Reilly, and William R. Bollow of the legal staff of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco were designated as Board counsel for the 
proceeding. 
Shell branches. With reference to previous Board discussions 
of pending applications by U.S. banks to establish shell branches or 
subsidiaries in the Bahamas, Governor Robertson noted that at a recent 
Congressional hearing Assistant Attorney General Vinson and another 
representative of the Department of Justice had spoken of difficulties 
posed by bank secrecy laws in the Bahamas, Switzerland, and certain 

12/16/68 
-6-
other countries in relation to the responsibilities of the Department. 
It appeared to him, therefore, that before the Board acted on the 
pending applications it might be advisable to request comments from 
Mr. Vinson regarding the implications, if any, for Department 
responsibilit les that might result from the operation of shell 
facilities in the Bahamas, and he had had a letter drafted for that 
purpose. 
No objection was indicated to the sending of such a letter, 
but there were several suggestions for changes in the draft. A letter 
in the form attached as Item No. 9 was then approved unanimously. 
The meeting recessed at this point to permit participation 
in a Board Christmas program and reconvened at 11:30 a.m. with Vice 
Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill present. Staff members in attendance included Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Brill, Solomon, Molony, Partee, Sammons, and Bernard, and 
Mrs. Semia, all of whom had been present earlier, along with Messrs. 
Hexter, General Counsel, Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance, Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel Administration, 
Morgan of the Board Members' Offices, Grimwood of the Division of 
International Finance, and Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation. 
Wachovia International. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to Wachovia International Investment Corporation, Winston-Salem, 

4314 
12/16/68 
-7-
North Carolina, granting consent to its acquisition of convertible 
debentures of Syracuse Oils Limited, Calgary, Alberta, Canada, and to 
its exercising the conversion rights contained therein. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 10. 
In taking this action the Board noted that consent to the 
proposed acquisition had been urgently requested by applicant and that 
a similar acquisition by another organization had previously been 
approved. However, Board members also noted that it was not clear 
whether the proposed acquisition was or was not incident to any 
banking relationship, and there was some disposition to feel that 
the basic policy question involved in investments by Edge corporations 
other than as an incident to the extension of credit should be explored 
and decided by the Board at a relatively early date. 
Foreign credit restraint program. With further reference 
to earlier discussions with regard to the establishment of 1969 
guidelines for the foreign credit restraint program, Governor Brimmer 
reported that at a meeting of the Cabinet Committee on the Balance of 
Payments last week there was considerable sentiment in favor of a 
proposal to eliminate from the guideline ceilings all export credits 
with a maturity of one year or more. He had resisted that proposal 
and had suggested, as an alternative, restoration of the so-called 
"two per cent of total assets" rule. The impasse eventually had been 
resolved following consideration of the matter in the light of a 

43 
12/16/68 
-8-
Presidential memorandum on program management during the transition to 
a new Administration, in which it was requested that program innova-
tions be held to a minimum so as not to bind the hands of the incoming 
Administration. It was judged that the course of action most 
consistent with that memorandum would be to continue the foreign credit 
restraint program guidelines essentially unchanged and such a 
recommendation to the President was agreed upon, although with an 
expectation that the Federal Reserve would review the program early in 
1969 to determine whether additional flexibility for financing U.S. 
exports might be provided in the guidelines. 
Accordingly, Governor Brimmer recommended that the Board 
approve a continuation of the existing guidelines with only minor 
changes, contingent upon acceptance by the President of a recommenda-
tion from the Cabinet Committee regarding the over-all balance of 
payments program. 
Governor Brimmer then explained the nature of the few 
changes in the guidelines that were contemplated. First, since the 
Export-Import Bank was now prohibited by statute from participating in 
the financing of defense exports, the Department of Defense had 
requested that the financing of such exports through other arrangements 
be exempted from the purview of the program, and this appeared to be 
in the national interest. Also, whereas under the existing guidelines 
banks were requested to reduce the amount of their short-term credit 

4316 
12/16/68 
-9-
outstanding to residents of developed countries of continental Western 
Europe to 60 per cent of the amount of such credit outstanding on 
December 31, 1967, no further reduction would be requested under the 
proposed guidelines for 1969. Banks' ceilings would continue to be 
reduced by the amount of repayments of term loans to residents of 
developed countries of continental Western Europe, and banks would be 
requested to continue to make no further term loans to residents of 
such countries except to finance exports of U.S. goods and services. 
There followed a discussion of accomplishments under the 
1968 guidelines, the effects of the proposed changes, and the general 
outlook for the U.S. balance of payments. 
The Board then approved the proposed guidelines for 1969 by 
unanimous vote, contingent upon the taking of the necessary action by 
the President, and authorized their issuance, along with a suitable 
press release, at the appropriate time. (Note: A press statement on 
the guidelines was issued under date of December 20, 1968, for release 
in morning papers of December 23, 1968. Copies of the press statement 
and the guidelines are attached under Item No. 11.) 
Several members of the staff withdrew at this point. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through 
the Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City whether 
Robert W. Wagstaff, President, Kansas City Coca-Cola Bottling Company, 
Kansas City, Missouri, would accept appointment if tendered as a 
Class C director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City for the 

... -i- s 
12/16/68 
-10-
three-year term beginning January 1, 1969, with the understanding 
that if it were found that he would accept, the appointment would be 
made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascertained 
that his acceptance would be forthcoming, an 
appointment telegram was sent to Mr. Wagstaff 
on December 18, 1968. 
Salaries of Presidents and First Vice Presidents. Unanimous 
approval was given to the payment of salaries to the Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Dallas, and San Francisco for the year beginning 
January 1, 1969, at the annual rates fixed by the directors of the 
respective Banks as reported in a memorandum from the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans dated December 11, 1968. 
Copies of the letters sent to the Chairmen of the St. Louis, 
Dallas, and San Francisco Banks are attached as Items 12-14. (Note: 
The salary rate fixed for the First Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis was inadvertently reported as $37,500, 
rather than $35,000, in the December 11 memorandum. Corrective action 
was taken by the Board on December 19, 1968. The annual rate approved 
for the President of the Bank was $50,000.) 
Salaries of Reserve Bank officers. Memoranda dated 
December 12 and 13, 1968, from the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans stated that the Committee had 
reviewed officer salary proposals for 1969 for all of the Federal 

4313 
12/16/68 
-11-
Reserve Banks except Kansas City and recommended that the Board approve 
those salaries effective January 1, 1969. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to letters to 
the eleven Federal Reserve Banks approving the salaries proposed for 
their officers. Copies are attached as Items 15-25, inclusive. 
Salary structure at Philadelphia. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia approving 
a revision of the salary structure applicable to employees of that 
Bank. A copy is attached as Item No. 26. 
Consultant fees. Governor Sherrill advised the Board of his 
intention to approve an increase from $95 to $100 in the maximum daily 
fee payable to Board consultants. 
The increase was noted without objection. 
Officers and appropriate staff members of the Division of 
Research and Statistics and the Division of International Finance 
entered the room at this point, along with Messrs. Broida, Molony, 
Cardon, Coyne, and Bernard. 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

4319 
12/16/68 
-12-
Discount rate. There was a further discussion of what action 
the Board might take with respect to the discount rate in light of the 
Reserve Bank proposals that were before it, such proposals calling for 
either a 1/4 percentage point or a 1/2 point increase. A related 
question was whether the Board should also announce an increase in 
member bank reserve requirements, effective in the latter part of 
January. 
At the beginning of the discussion Mr. Solomon summarized, 
at the request of the Vice Chairman, a communication received by the 
Treasury late last week from a senior official of the Department who 
was in London. As Mr. Solomon appraised the report, it suggested that 
not much more in the way of pressure on sterling or loss of reserves 
would be required to cause the British to let the pound sterling rate 
float. 
Governor Daane then reported having received through 
President Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the judgment 
of Mr. Coombs, Special Manager of the System Open Market Account, who 
was also in London. Mr. Coombs' observations were substantially 
similar to those of the Treasury official, although apparently a bit 
more optimistic. In Mr. Coombs1 opinion the British could live with a 
1/4 point increase in the Federal Reserve discount rate at this 
juncture, despite their precarious reserve position, but the announce-
ment of stronger Federal Reserve monetary measures might lead to a 
British decision to let the pound float. 

4320 
12/16/68 
-13-
Governor Daane had the impression that President Hayes also 
had talked with an official of the Bank of England and had received 
much the same impression as from Mr. Coombs. 
In the discussion that ensued it was generally agreed that 
no action should be taken by the Board today and that instead it 
would be desirable to await the exchange of views and information at 
tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. In addition, 
the Vice Chairman felt that it might be possible to obtain further 
information or opinions on the international situation that would be 
helpful. 
As to positions at the moment, three members of the Board 
(Governors Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill) were inclined to believe that 
a 1/4 point increase in the discount rate, coupled with a tightened 
open market policy and the constraint imposed by a continuation of 
the current interest rate ceilings, would constitute a sufficient 
wove at this time, leaving the question of action on reserve require-
ments for consideration after the turn of the year in the light of 
conditions as they then existed. Governor Daane's reasoning appeared 
to reflect more than that of his colleagues the constraint that he felt 
was imposed by the international situation; he indicated that otherwise 
he might prefer a 1/2 point increase in the discount rate. Governors 
Maisel and Sherrill felt that, regardless of whatever consideration was 
given to the international factor, monetary policy moves at this time 

4321 
12/16/68 
-14-
beyond those that they outlined might run the risk of overreaction and 
create more restraint than would be advisable, so they preferred to 
reserve judgment on the reserve requirement question. 
The other members of the Board (Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, and Brimmer) were of the opinion that an announcement 
limited to a 1/4 point increase in the discount rate would be insuffi-
cient to convey to the public what they believed was needed at this 
juncture, namely, a signal of a change in the stance of Federal Reserve 
policy. For that reason, they favored an overt move to the more 
subtle strategy involved in open market operations; they suggested 
that if the degree of restraint proved to be too severe, it could be 
offset to some extent through open market operations. Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer were inclined to feel that a decision should be 
reached primarily on the basis of what was judged to be required in 
terms of the domestic situation; if the British situation was in fact 
as precarious as some seemed to believe, they concluded that the status 
quo probably could not be preserved, at least for any length of time, 
by 
refraining from the adoption of policy measures that the Federal 
Reserve might otherwise deem appropriate. Governor Robertson was 
Inclined to give somewhat more weight in his reasoning to the inter-
national factor, which he felt should at least be considered carefully 
in the light of the best information available with a view to 
assessing the degree of risk that would appear to be involved in 
alternative Federal Reserve policy actions. 

< 1322 
12/16/68 
-15-
When it came to the form of a reserve requirement move, 
Governor Mitchell continued to prefer an increase in the requirements 
applicable to demand deposits while Governor Brimmer continued to 
favor applying the increase to time deposits. Governor Robertson 
indicated that his position was flexible, and he asked that the staff 
provide additional information to the Board members on alternative 
models. 
It was understood that the staff also would make available 
to the Board members tentative drafts of a press release that might be 
issued depending on the policy decision finally reached by the Board. 
As to what should be said at tomorrow's Open Market Committee 
meeting, it was concluded that the Presidents should be informed that 
the Board expected to reach a decision on the discount rate tomorrow 
afternoon, with more members presently inclined to favor a 1/4 point 
increase than a 1/2 point increase, and that consideration also was 
being given to the possibility of a further policy move in the form of 
a change in reserve requirements. It was noted that an effort should be 
made to construct the Committee's current economic policy directive in 
such a manner that the directive would be consistent with whatever 
Policy action or actions should later be decided upon by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

v r j o o 
\ A*..* 
B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
12/16/68 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N U E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, 
350 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of October 23, 1968, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold up to 
5,000 shares of the capital stock of Compania Financiera 
Dominicana S.A0, Santo Domingo, Dominican Republic, at a 
cost of approximately $50,000, provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corpora-
tion, Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, The Gallatin 
Company, Inc., and Manufacturers Hanover International 
Banking Corporation, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
12/16/68 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
H O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 2, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
16,044 shares of the capital stock of Weathers Aviation, 
Inc., San Juan, Puerto Rico, at a cost of approximately 
$35,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

v. 
ir\ 
Ul 
4Y 
4 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
12/16/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
Mr. Walter J. Heddesheimer, Secretary, 
Central National Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44115 
Dear Mr. Heddesheimer: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and Organization Certificate dated September 24, 1968, 
of Central Cleveland International Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, 
and there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corpo-
ration to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
Board authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
Board will issue its final permit to commence business, the 
President, Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three 
of the directors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
of the United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
stock is held and owned by citizens of the United States, by corpo-
rations the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of 
the United States, chartered under the laws of the United States 
or of a State of the United States, or by firms or companies the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in 
in cash and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash 

4326 
Mr. Walter J. Heddesheimer 
-2-
at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, and must forward a 
certified copy of an amendment to ARTICLE ELEVENTH of the Articles 
of Association so it reads, "This corporation shall have succession 
for a period of twenty years from the date of issuance of its pre-
liminary permit to begin business. . .." Thereafter the Treasurer 
or Secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instal-
ments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that Central Cleveland 
International Corporation will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of Central National Bank of Cleveland. 
Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
that any foreign loans and investments of the Corporation will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of Central National Bank of Cleveland and 
that due consideration will be given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Fcrrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

f ryry^A 
Vjt'^vw 4 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
December 16, 1968. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has 
this day approved the Articles of Association dated September 24, 
1968, and Organization Certificate dated September 24, 1968, of 
CENTRAL CLEVELAND INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly filed with said 
Board of Governors, and that CENTRAL CLEVELAND INTERNATIONAL 
CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers con-
ferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and pre-
liminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
12/16/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
Continental International Finance 
Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of November 26, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold 7,500 Class "B" shares of the 
capital stock of Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran, 
Tehran, Iran, at a cost of approximately $130,000, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Continental Bank International, and 
Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
- '}«:x> 
Item 
12/16/68 
First Chicago International Finance Corporation, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of October 16, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
10,718 additional shares of the common stock of McCan 
Franchises, Ltd., Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 
at a cost of approximately $58,530, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
4230 
Item No. 6 
12/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 28, 1968, the Board of Gov-
ernors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act 
and Regulation M, for First National City Bank ("FNCB"), New York, New York, 
to purchase and hold all of the stock of First National City Bank (Switzerland) 
S.A. ("FNCB Switzerland") to be formed in Geneva, Switzerland, at a cost of 
approximately $14,000,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the acquisition and holding of shares of 
FNCB Switzerland by FNCB is granted subject to the applicable provisions of 
Section 25 and Regulation M and to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares shall be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if FNCB Switzerland shall in any manner engage in any activity 
or take any action whatsoever that would not be permissible 
if FNCB Switzerland were a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB will fur-
nish' the Board with such reports regarding the activities of 
FNCB Switzerland as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FNCB Switzerland 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if FNCB Switzerland were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares of FNCB 
Switzerland at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of FNCB Switzerland, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 

First National City Bank 
-2-
4331 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
*until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions set 
forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
In view of the provisions of the guidelines for banks under the 
voluntary foreign credit restraint program, wherein banks are requested not 
to make any new nonexport credits to the developed countries of continental 
Western Europe, the foregoing consent is granted with the understanding that 
the stock of FNCB Switzerland will be held by your bank's "City Office" branch 
in London, England, and that such holding will be financed through funds ob-
tained from sources outside the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
t > • 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

_ -JtOO 
Item No. 7 
12/16/63 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 4(c)(8) OF THE 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1843(c)(8)), and section 222.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.4(a)), by The Citizens and Southern Holding Company, Atlanta 
Georgia, a bank holding company, for a determination that the planned 
insurance activities of two proposed nonbanking subsidiaries, American 
Southern Life Insurance Company, Inc. and The Citizens and Southern 
Agency, Inc., are of the kind described in the aforementioned sections 
of the Act and the regulation so as to make it unnecessary for the pro-
hibitions of section 4 of the Act with'respect to the acquisition or 
retention of shares in nonbanking organizations to apply in order to 
carry out the purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
determination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice 
and hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearing: 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, Sttat pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) and 

222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation tf (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), 
promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 
to this matter be held commencing on January 29, 1969, at 10 a.m., at 
the offices of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, 
before a hearing examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission, 
pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code, such 
hearing to be conducted according to the Rules of Practice for Formal 
Hearings of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
(12 CFR Part 263). The right is reserved to the Board or such hearing 
examiner to designate any other date or place for such hearing or any 
Part thereof which may be determined to be necessary or appropriate for 
the convenience of the parties. The Board's Rules of Practice for Formal 
Hearings provide, in part, that "All such hearings shall be private and 
shall be attended only by parties and their representatives or counsel, 
representatives qf the Board, witnesses, and other persons having an 
official interest in the proceedings: Provided, however, That, on written 
request by a party or representatives of the Board, or on the Board's own 
motion, the Board, unless prohibited by law, may permit other persons to 
attend or may order the hearing to be public." 
Any person desiring to give testimony in this proceeding should 
file with the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, on or before January 22, 1969, 
a written request containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's 
interest in the proceeding, and a summary of the matters concerning which 

j.4334 
-3-
roatters concerning which said petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such 
requests will be presented to the designated hearing examiner for his 
determination. Persons submitting timely requests will be notified of 
the hearing examiner's decision. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 16th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
<. -j 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item 
12/16/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 4(c)(8) OF THE 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), and 
section 222.4(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), by First 
Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, a bank holding company, for 
a determination that the planned insurance activities of two proposed 
nonbanking subsidiaries, either Ed D. Smith & Sons, Inc. and First 
Security Life Insurance Company of Texas or two corporations to be formed 
bV Applicant, are of the kind described in the aforementioned sections of 
the Act and the regulation so as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions 
o f section 4 of the Act with respect to the acquisition or retention of 
shares i n nonbanking organizations to apply in order to carry out the 
Purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any 
determination pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice and 
hearing and on the basis of the record made at such hearings 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
B*nk Holding Company Act and in accordance with sections 222.4(a) and 

. • 1336 
222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), 
promulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing with respect 
to this matter be held commencing on January 15, 1969, at 10 a.m. at the 
offices of the Salt Lake City Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco before a hearing examiner selected by the Civil Service Commis-
sion, pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code, such 
hearing to be conducted according to the Rules of Practice for Formal 
Hearings of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR 
Part 263). The right is reserved to the Board or such hearing examiner 
to designate any other date or place for such hearing or any part thereof 
which may be determined to be necessary or appropriate for the convenience 
of the parties. The Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings provide, 
in part, that "All such hearings shall be private and shall be attended 
°nly by parties and their representatives or counsel, representatives of 
the Board, witnesses, and other persons having an official interest in 
the proceedings: Provided, however, That, on written request by a party 
or representatives of the Board, or on the Board's own motion, the Board, 
unless prohibited by law, may permit other persons to attend or may order 
the hearing to be public." 
Any person desiring to give testimony in this proceeding should 
file with the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco, San Francisco, California, on or before 
January 6, 1969, a written request containing a statement of the nature 
of the petitioner's interest in the proceeding, and a summary of the 

matters concerning which said petitioner wishes to give testimony. Such 
bequests will be presented to the designated hearing examiner for his 
determination. Persons submitting timely requests will be notified of 
^ e hearing examiner's decision. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 16th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

433 
Item No. 9 
12/16/68 
B O A R D O F • Q V E R N • R 5 
0 F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 19, 1968 
Mr. Fred M. Vinson, Jr., 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Criminal Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530 
°ear Mr. Vinson: 
1/ 
Eighteen domestic banks 
have applied for Board permission 
to establish branches or wholly-owned subsidiaries which would conduct 
certain limited banking operations in the Bahamas under non-resident 
licenses issued by Bahamian authorities. Most of these facilities 
Would consist, at least initially, of merely an address and a bookkeep-
ing operation under a part-time "manager" supplied in most cases by some 
institution currently operating in the area. All deposit and loan 
ransactions would be negotiated, and all policy decisions made, by the 
Parent bank in the United States. No contact with the public or local 
usiness in the Bahamas is contemplated. Basically, these facilities 
would operate as adjuncts of their parent banks in attracting foreign 
ePosit funds for lending to the parent's foreign customers. Six 
member banks of the Federal Reserve System^/ and one nonmemberl/ already 
operate similar facilities in Nassau, and two other member banks-' con-
U c t full-fledged banking and trust business in the Bahamas. 
c. 
o f course, Bank of America (San Francisco) and First National 
co H B a n k a n d C h a s e ^n^ttan Bank (both of New York City) currently 
on uct banking operations through branches or subsidiaries authorized 
In t^ e. B o a r d i n Switzerland, Lebanon, Germany, Hong Kong and Panama. 
of ^ d i t i o n > F i r s t National Bank and Continental Illinois Bank (both 
^ Chicago) have such facilities in Lebanon and Germany; Morgan 
-anty Trust Company (New York City), in Switzerland and Germany; 
Int 
S t a t e s T r u s t Company (New York City), in Switzerland; and 
"ernational Bank of Commerce, a subsidiary of National Bank of 
^ommerce ( S e a t t l e ) j i n H o n g K o n g > 
B 
. 
In view of your testimony on December 9 before the House 
g . ln8 and Currency Committee concerning the bank secrecy laws of 
•L zerland, the Bahamas and certain other countries, the Board would 
Preciate having any comments you might care to offer regarding the 

Mr. Fred M. Vinson, Jr. 
- 2 -
possible implications (if any) which the operation by United States 
banks of branches or subsidiaries in such countries might have in 
relation to the responsibilities of your Department. 
Since the applications to establish Nassau facilities have 
been pending for some time, the Board is anxious to act upon them at 
an early date. It is hoped, therefore, that we might have your comments 
°n these applications as soon as possible. 
We would be happy to furnish any further information you may 
desire in this connection. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
1/ Atlanta: Citizens and Southern National Bank; Boston: First National 
Bank, National Shawmut Bank, New England Merchants National Bank, State 
Street Bank and Trust Company; Cleveland: Central National Bank, National 
City Bank; Miami: First National Bank; Mineola, New York: Franklin 
National Bank; New York City: American International Bank, Chemical Bank 
New York Trust Company, National Bank of North America, Republic National 
Bank, Sterling National Bank and Trust Company; Philadelphia: Fidelity 
Bank; St. Louis: Mercantile Trust Company; San Francisco: Bank of 
California; Winston-Salem: Wachovia Bank & Trust Company. 
2/ First National Bank (Boston), First Pennsylvania Banking and Trust 
Company (Philadelphia), Philadelphia National Bank, Provident National 
Bank (Philadelphia), Pittsburgh National Bank, and Union Bank (Los 
Angeles). 
3/ First Western Bank and Trust Company (Los Angeles). 
V Chase Manhattan Bank and First National City Bank (both of New York 
City). 

4310 
Item No. 10 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
12/16/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 16, 1968. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 3099, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 27102 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of November 1, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
up to Canadian $500,000 of 7-1/2 per cent convertible 
debentures of Syracuse Oils Limited ("Syracuse ), Calgary, 
Alberta, Canada, and to exercise the conversion rights 
contained therein, provided the debentures are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
connection, the Board also approves the purchase and 
holding of the debentures and shares of Syracuse in ex-
cess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and 
surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

«'X. Of GO W 
•ftots?:-
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
press 
release 
Item No. H 
12/16/68 
For release in morning papers, 
Monday, December 23, 1968. 
December 20, 19o8, 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued revised guidelines, effective immediately, for restraint of 
foreign credits by banks and other financial institutions. 
The revised guidelines continue the President's program, 
announced on January 1, 1968, to strengthen the U.S. balance of pay-
ments. In general, the program for 1969 for financial institutions 
l s the same as that for 1968. 
The ceiling on foreign credit extensions by banks remains 
at the level specified in the January 1, 1968, guidelines, as adjusted. 
For about one-half of the reporting banks, accounting for more than 90 
Per cent of the aggregate ceiling, this is essentially 103 per cent of 
the 1964 base. For the remainder of the reporting banks the ceiling 
*iU continue to be the 1967 ceiling plus one-third of the difference 
hetveen that amount and 2 per cent of total assets as of December 31, 196o, 
Banks are requested to continue to refrain from making new 
term loans, except to finance U.S. exports, to residents of developed 
countries of continental Western Europe, and to continue to reduce 
their ceiling each month by the amount of repayment of such loans out-
standing on December 31, 1967. However, under the revised guidelines 
banks would not be precluded from making equity investments in those 
countries, subject to their ceilings and to Board requirements. 

-2-
Banks also are asked to hold short-term credits to resi-
dents of developed countries of continental Western Europe to the 
level requested in the January 1, 1968, guidelines, that is, 60 
per cent of the amount of such credits outstanding on December 31, 
1967. 
The definition of covered assets for nonbank financial 
institutions is unchanged, and the ceiling remains at 95 per cent 
of the adjusted end-of-1967 base. Institutions that have not 
succeeded in reducing their holdings of covered assets by at least 
5 per cent during 1968 are asked to accomplish this reduction during 
1969. 
Governor Andrew F. Brimmer, the Board member charged with 
the responsibility for the administration of the program, pointed 
out that as of October 31, 1968, the banks had reduced their holdings 
of covered foreign assets by $633 million since December 31, 1967, 
a s compared with a suggested reduction for the entire year of $400 
Million. As a result of this reduction, the banks on October 31 
were more than $500 million below the ceiling effective on that date. 
Governor Brimmer said that the ceiling would be reduced by approxi-
mately $100 million during the last two months of the year by 
deductions related to repayments of credits to developed countries 
continental Western Europe. There is usually a seasonal outflow 
°f bank credit during the fourth quarter, but Governor Brimmer said 
is confident that the banks will exceed the objective requested in 
the guidelines for January 1, 1968. 

In considering the foreign credit restraint program, the 
Board concluded that the balance of payments prospects for 1969 
do not permit any basic change in the program for restraint on 
foreign lending by U. S. financial institutions. However, in view 
of the importance of increasing receipts on current account, the 
Board indicated its intention to review the program early in 1969 
to determine whether additional flexibility for financing U. S. 
exports might be provided in the guidelines. 
Nonbank financial institutions reporting under the program 
reduced their holdings of foreign assets subject to the target ceiling 
by $192 million during the first nine months of the year, but $73 
million of this amount represented sales of covered equities to 
other American investors. Nevertheless, covered assets held by these 
institutions as a group on September 30, 1968, were only 92 per cent 
their adjusted base-date holdings, or less than the 95 per cent 
ratio targeted for year-end. 
Copies of the revised guidelines are attached. They are 
being made available to financial institutions through the Federal 
Reserve Banks. Banks and other financial institutions having 
questions concerning the application of the revised guidelines are 
urged to consult with the Federal Reserve Bank of their district. 

4344 
REVISED GUIDELINES 
FOR BANK AND NONBANK FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
On January 1, 1968, a new program to reduce the deficit in the 
nation's balance of payments was announced by the President of the United 
States. An integral part of that program was the reduction during 1968 
by at least $500 million of foreign claims held by financial institutions. 
It appears at this time that this objective will be met. It has 
been determined, however, that restraint of capital outflow, both public 
and private, will continue to be required in 1969. Accordingly, the Board 
of Governors has revised the guidelines for banks and other financial 
Institutions as follows: 
The Revised 1969 Program for Commercial Banks 
The basic 1969 ceiling for each bank reporting on December 31, 
1968, will be the bank's ceiling as of that date calculated in accordance 
with the guidelines issued on January 1, 1968. 
All banks are requested to continue to make no new term loans 
(loans with original maturities of more than one year) to residents of 
developed countries of continental Western Europe except to finance 
exports of U.S. goods and services. However, this provision does not 
aPply to equity investments in those countries. Each bank will 
c°ntinue to reduce its ceiling on each reporting date by the amount 
repayments during the preceding month of term loans to Western 
Europe outstanding on December 31, 1967. 

4315 
-2-
All banks also are asked to hold the amount of short-term credit 
outstanding (loans with maturities of 1 year or less) to residents of 
developed countries of continental Western Europe to an amount not more 
than the limit that the banks were requested to observe under the 1968 
Program; that is, 60 per cent of the amount of such credits outstanding 
on December 31, 1967. 
These revisions in the guidelines are intended to forestall any 
large outflow of bank capital during 1969 by maintaining banks' foreign 
assets at about the level planned for 1968. 
The Revised 1969 Program for Nonbank Financial Institutions 
The 1969 program for nonbank financial institutions is identical 
in all substantive respects with the program in effect during 1968. The 
definition of covered assets is unchanged, but the treatment of leased 
Property is clarified. The target ceiling remains at 95 per cent of the 
adjusted end-of-1967 base. Institutions that did not reduce their holdings 
°f covered assets by at least 5 per cent during 1968 will be expected to 
increase their efforts to accomplish such a reduction during 1969. 
Guidelines for Banks 
Ceiling and reporting 
A. 
Meaning of terms: 
(1) "Foreigners" include: individuals, partnerships, and corpora 
tions domiciled outside the United States, irrespective of citizenship, 
except their agencies or branches located within the United States, branches 
subsidiaries, and affiliates of U.S. banks and other U.S. corporations that 

4346 
-3-
are located in foreign countries; and any government of a foreign country or 
official agency thereof and any official international or regional institu-
tion created by treaty, irrespective of location. 
(2) "Foreign long-term securities" are those issued without a 
contractual maturity or with an original maturity of more than 1 year from 
the date of issuance. 
(3) "Other claims" include all long-term claims other than 
securities, real assets, net investment in and advances to foreign branches 
and subsidiaries, and all short-term claims (such as deposits, money market 
instruments, customers' liability on acceptances, and loans). 
(4) "Nonexport credit" means a foreign credit other than one that 
arises directly out of the financing of exports of U.S. goods or services 
or that is reasonably necessary for the financing of such exports. 
(5) "Developed countries" are Abu Dhabi, Australia, Austria, the 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Belgium, Bermuda, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic), Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi 
Arabia Neutral Zone, Libya, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, 
New Zealand, Norway, Portugal, Qatar, Republic of South Africa, San Marino, 
Saudi Arabia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom. Also to 
be considered "developed" are the following countries: Albania, Bulgaria, 
the People's Republic of China, Cuba, Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, 
Communist-controlled Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Outer Mongolia, Poland 
(including any area under its provisional administration) Rumania, Soviet 
Zone of Germany and the Soviet sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics and the Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, and areas in 

4347 
-4-
East Prussia that are under the provisional administration of the Union of 
Soviet Socialist Republics, and Communist-controlled Vietnam. 
B. 
Specific inclusions and exclusions in calculating the ceiling: 
(1) The following items should be included: claims on foreigners 
without deduction of any offsetting liabilities to foreigners; foreign long-
term securities held for banks' own account; foreign customers' liability 
for acceptances executed, whether or not the acceptances are held by the 
reporting banks; deferred payment letters of credit described in the Treas-
ury Depa rtment s Supplementary Reporting Instruction No, 1, Treasury Foreign 
Exchange Reports, Banking Forms, dated May 10, 1968; participations purchased 
loans to foreigners, except loans to finance U.S. exports guaranteed or 
Participated in by the Export-Import Bank or the Department of Defense, or 
insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association; and foreign assets 
s°ld to U.S. residents, including the Export-Import Bank, with recourse. 
(2) Contingent claims, unutilized credits, claims held for account 
customers, acceptances executed by other U.S. banks, loans to finance 
U <? 
exports guaranteed or participated in by the Export-Import Bank or 
the Department of Defense, or insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Asso-
ciation, and claims on residents of Canada, should be excluded. 
C. Ceiling 
(1) Foreign credits included in the ceiling ("covered assets") 
are a bank's total claims on foreigners held for own account, with the 
specific inclusions and exclusions set forth in Section B above. The basic 
*969 ceiling for a bank reporting on December 31, 1968, is its ceiling 
Calculated in accordance with the guidelines issued January 1, 1968. 

4348 
-5-
(?) All banks are requested to continue to refrain from making new 
term loans (those with original maturities of more than 1 year) to residents 
of developed countries of continental Western Europe, or relending amounts 
received in repayment of such loans, except to make bona fide exports credits. 
The ceiling of each bank receiving repayments on term loans to such resi-
dents outstanding on December 31, 1967, will be adjusted monthly by de-
ducting therefrom the dollar amount of those repayments. Equity invest-
ments in developed countries of continental Western Europe may be made within 
fche overall ceiling, subject to requirements of the Board of 
Governors. 
(3) All banks are requested further to hold the amount of out-
standing short-term credits (credits with original maturities of 1 year or 
less) to residents of developed countries of continental Western Europe to 
the level requested by the guidelines issued on January 1, 1968, that is, 
6 0 per cent of the amount of such credits outstanding on December 31, 1967. 
(4) Any bank that sells a covered foreign asset to a U.S. resi-
d e nt other than a bank participating in the program, including the Export-
Iniport Bank, without recourse should reduce its ceiling by an equivalent 
arnount. 
(5) A bank that had no ceiling in 1968, or that had foreign assets 
$500,000 or less on October 31, 1967, may discuss with the Federal Reserve 
^ank of the Federal Reserve district in which it is located the possibility 
Of rl 
adopting a special ceiling adequate to permit the bank to meet reasonable 
Priority credit demands of existing customers or originating in its normal 
tra<*e area. 

4349 
-6-
In discussing the ceiling of such a bank, the Federal Reserve Bank 
will ascertain the bank's previous history in foreign transactions, including 
acceptance of foreign deposits or handling foreign collections, and the 
reasons why the bank considers that it should engage in foreign transactions. 
D. 
Reporting 
(1) Banks that report on Treasury Foreign Exchange Forms B-2 or B-3, 
that have been granted special ceilings under provisions of these guide-
lines, should file a Monthly Report on Foreign Claims (Form F.R. 391/69) 
wi-th the Federal Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve district in which the 
bank is located. 
(2) Copies of Form F.R. 391/69 are available at the Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
Exclusions from the ceilings 
Loans to finance U.S. exports guaranteed or participated in by 
the Export-Import Bank or the Department of Defense, or insured by the Foreign 
Credit Insurance Association, are excluded from the ceiling. The role of 
Government lending abroad within the framework of the President's program 
is coordinated by the National Advisory Council for International Monetary 
and Financial Policies. 
Also excluded are claims on Canadian residents. 
Credits in excess of ceiling 
A bank would not be considered as acting in a manner inconsistent 
with the program if it temporarily exceeded its ceiling as a result of the 
extension of bona fide export credits. 

4350 
-7-
The bank should, however, refrain from making new extensions of 
nonpriority credits so as to reduce its claims on foreigners to an amount 
within the ceiling as quickly as possible. It should also take every oppor-
tunity to withdraw or reduce commitments, including credit lines, that are 
not of a firm nature and to assure that drawings under credit lines are 
kept to normal levels and usage. At time of renewal, each credit line should 
be reviewed for consistency with the program. 
A bank whose foreign credits are in excess of the ceiling will be 
invited periodically to discuss with the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank 
the steps it has taken and proposes to take to reduce its credits to a 
level within the ceiling. 
Loan priorities 
Within the ceiling, absolute priority should be given to bona fide 
export credits. Credits that substitute for cash sales or for sales 
customarily financed out of nonbank or foreign funds are not entitled to 
Priority. 
With respect to nonexport credits, banks should give the highest 
Priority to loans to developing countries and should avoid restrictive poli-
cies that would place an undue burden on Japan or the United Kingdom. 
A bank whose 1969 ceiling is larger than its ceiling for 1967 
will be expected to restrict the use of any excess over its 1967 ceiling 
t o priority credits (that is, export credits and credits to developing 
countries) originating among the bank's regular customers or residents 
o f its trade territory. That is, subject to the limitations set forth 
ln Guideline 1C(1), holdings of foreign credits on any reporting date 

4351 
-8-
should not exceed the 1967 ceiling by more than the increase in holdings 
°f priority credits between December 31, 1967, and the reporting date. 
Trust departments 
Trust departments of commercial banks should follow the guidelines 
with respect to nonbank financial institutions. 
Transactions for the account of customers 
A bank should bear in mind the President's balance of payments 
Program when acting for the account of a customer. Although the bank is 
obliged to follow a customer's instructions, it should to the extent 
possible discourage customers from placing liquid funds outside the United 
States, except in Canada. A bank should not place with a customer foreign 
obligations that, in the absence of the voluntary credit restraint program, 
it would have acquired or held for its own account. 
^' 
Foreign branches 
The voluntary credit restraint program is not designed to restrict 
the extension of foreign credits by foreign branches if the funds utilized 
are derived from foreign sources and do not add to the outflow of capital 
from the United States. 
Total claims of a bank's domestic offices on its foreign branches 
(including permanent capital invested in, as well as balances due from, 
S u ch branches) represent bank credit to nonresidents for the purposes of 
the program. 
3 
|| 
* —Edge Act" corporations 
"Edge Act" and "Agreement" corporations are included in the foreign 
credit restraint program. Corporations that chose to adopt a separate 

4352 
-9-
ceiling und er the provisions of Guideline No. 11 issued in February 1965 
®ay continue to report separately from their parent banks or may combine 
foreign loans and investments with those of their parent banks for purposes 
of the program. No special ceilings are provided for Edge Act or Agreement 
corporations formed since February 1965. 
Edge Act or Agreement corporations owned by a bank holding company 
may combine foreign loans and investments with any one or all of the banks 
in the holding company group for purposes of the program. 
Bank holding companies 
Registered bank holding companies will be treated as banks for the 
Purposes of these guidelines. Banks in which controlling interest is held 
by a corporation other than a registered bank holding company will continue 
to be treated as banks for these purposes. 
Registered bank holding companies may combine the ceilings and 
foreign loans and investments outstanding of one or more of the banks in 
the holding company group. 
Any company formed after December 23, 1968, for the purpose of ac-
quiring controlling interest in a commercial bank will be treated as a bank 
f°r the purpose of this program, and foreign assets acquired by the company 
°r any of its subsidiaries, including the bank, will be counted against the 
existing ceiling of the acquired bank. 
U.S. branches and agencies of foreign banks 
Branches and agencies of foreign banks located in the United States 
are requested to act in accordance with the spirit of the domestic commer-
cial bank voluntary credit restraint program. 

lo-
ll. Loans to U.S. residents and substitution of domestic credit for credit 
from foreign sources 
There are a number of situations in which loans to domestic cus-
tomers, individual as well as corporate, may be detrimental to the President's 
balance of payments program and hence should be avoided. Examples are: 
(A) Loans to U.S. residents -- individuals as well as corporations --
that will aid the borrower in making new foreign loans or investments in-
consistent with the President's program. Banks should avoid making new loans 
that would directly or indirectly enable borrowers to use funds abroad in 
a manner inconsistent with the Department of Commerce program or with the 
guidelines for nonbank financial institutions. 
(B) Loans to U.S. subsidiaries and branches of foreign companies that 
°therwise might have been made by the bank to the foreign parent or other 
foreign affiliate of the company or that normally would have been obtained 
abroad. 
Management of a bank's liquid funds 
A bank should not place its own funds abroad for short-term 
investment purposes, whether such investments are payable in foreign 
currencies or in U.S. dollars. This does not, however, apply to invest-
ments in Canada, nor does it call for a reduction in necessary working 
balances held with foreign correspondents. 

4354 
-n-
Guidelines for Nonbank Financial Institutions 
Nonbank financial institutions 
The group of institutions covered by the nonbank guidelines 
includes: trust companies; trust departments of commercial banks; 
mutual savings banks; insurance companies; investment companies; finance 
companies; employee retirement and pension funds; college endowment 
funds; charitable foundations; and the U. S. branches of foreign 
insurance companies and of other foreign nonbank financial corporations. 
Investment underwriting firms, securities brokers and dealers, and 
investment counseling firms also are covered with respect to foreign 
financial assets held for their own account and are requested to inform 
their customers of the program in those cases where it appears applicable. 
Businesses whose principal activity is the leasing of property and equip-
ment, and which are not owned or controlled by a financial institution, 
are not defined as financial institutions. 
Sgilinp, a na priorities 
Through the end of calendar 1969, each institution is requested 
to limit its aggregate holdings of foreign assets covered by the program 
t° no more than 95 per cent of the adjusted amount of such assets held 
December 31, 1967. 
Institutions generally are expected to hold no foreign deposits 
°r money market instruments (other than Canadian). However, an institu-
tion may maintain such minimum working balances abroad as are needed for 
the efficient conduct of its foreign business activities. 

4355 
-12-
In addition, institutions are expected to refrain from making 
any new investments, in either debt or equity form, in the developed 
countries of continental Western Europe, except for new credits that are 
essential to the financing of U. S. exports. This means that reductions 
through amortizations, maturities or sales are not to be offset by new 
acquisitions in these countries. 
Among other foreign assets that are subject to the guideline 
ceiling, institutions are asked to give absolute priority to credits 
that represent the bona fide financing of U. S. exports. 
Institutions may invest in noncovered foreign assets generally 
a s desired. However, they are requested to refrain from making any loans 
and investments, noncbvered as well as covered," which appear to be 
inconsistent with other aspects of the President's balance of payments 
Program. Among these are the following: 
(1) noncovered credits under this program that substitute 
directly for loans that commercial banks would have 
made in the absence of that part of the program applicable 
to them; 
(2) noncovered credits to developing-country subsidiaries of 
U. S. corporations that would not have been permitted 
under the Department of Commerce program if made by the 
U. S. parent directly. 
(3) credits to U. S. corporate borrowers that would enable 
them to make new foreign loans and investments inconsistent 
with the Department of Commerce program. 
(A) credits to U. S. subsidiaries and branches of foreign com-
panies that otherwise would have been made to the foreign 
parent, or that would substitute for funds normally obtained 
from foreign sources. 

! V' 
-13-
Covered assets 
Covered foreign financial assets, subject to the guideline 
ceiling, include the following types of investments, except for "free 
delivery" items received after December 31, 1967: 
1. Liquid funds in all foreign countries other than Canada. 
This category comprises foreign bank deposits, including 
deposits in foreign branches of U. S. banks, and liquid 
money market claims on foreign obligors, generally defined 
to include marketable negotiable instruments maturing in 
1 year or less. 
2. All other claims on non-Canadian foreign obligors written, 
at date of acquisition, to mature in 10 years or less. 
This category includes bonds, notes, mortgages, loans, 
and other, credits. Excluded are bonds and notes of 
international institutions of which the United States is 
a member, and loans guaranteed or participated in by the 
Export-Import Bank or the Department of Defense or insured 
by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association, regardless 
of maturity. 
3. Net financial investment in foreign branches, subsidiaries 
and affiliates, located in developed countries other than 
Canada and Japan.!/ Such financial investment includes 
payments into equity and other capital accounts of, and 
net loans and advances to, any foreign businesses, in 
which the U. S. institution has an ownership interest of 
10 per cent or more. Excluded are earnings of a foreign 
affiliate if they are directly retained in the capital 
accounts of the foreign business. 
4. Long-term credits of foreign obligors domiciled in 
developed countries other than Canada and Japan.i/ 
Included in this category are bonds, notes, mortgages, 
loans, and other credits maturing more than 10 years after 
date of acquisition. Excluded are bonds of international 
institutions of which the United States is a member. 
1/ See "Note" on p, 19. 

B 
4357 
-14-
5. Equity securities of foreign corporations domiciled in 
developed countries other than Canada and Japan, except 
those acquired after September 30, 1965, in U. S. markets 
from American investors.!./ The test of whether an equity 
security is covered will depend on the institution's 
obligation to pay the Interest Equalization Tax on 
acquisition. Exclusion from covered assets under this 
program normally will be indicated when, in acquiring 
an equity security that otherwise would be covered, the 
purchasing institution receives a certificate of prior 
American ownership, or brokerage confirmation thereof. 
Base-date holdings 
Base-date holdings for any reporting date in 1969 are defined 
as: (1) total holdings of covered foreign assets as of December 31, 1967; 
(2) minus, equity securities of companies domiciled in developed countries 
(except Canada and Japan), that are included in (1) but had been sold to 
American investors prior to the current quarter; (3) plus, or minus, 
the difference between sales proceeds and "carrying" value of covered 
equitie s sold prior to the current quarter to other than American investors 
in other than U. S. markets. On each reporting date in 1969, "carrying" 
value should be the value reflected in the institution's report (on 
Form FR 392R-68) for December 31, 1967, in the case of equities held on 
that date, and it should be cost in the case of equities purchased after 
that date. 
"Adjusted" base-date holdings, to which the 95 per cent ceiling 
applies, are equal to "base-date" holdings as defined above adjusted for 
Sales during the current quarter of included covered equities in accordance 
X9ith the procedures specified in points (2) and (3) of the preceeding 
Paragraph. 
U 
See "Note" on p. 19. 

-15-
Noncovered assets 
Foreign financial assets not covered by the guideline are 
still reportable on the quarterly statistical reports to the Federal 
Reserve Banks. Such noncovered foreign investments include the following: 
1. All financial assets in, or claims or residents of, the 
Dominion of Canada. 
2. Bonds and notes of international institutions of which 
the United States is a member, regardless of maturity. 
3. Long-term investments in all developing countries and in 
Japan, including credit instruments with final maturities 
of more than 10 years at date of acquisition, direct 
investment in subsidiaries and affiliates, and all equity 
securities issued by firms domiciled in these countries. 
4. Equity securities of firms in developed countries other 
than Canada and Japan that have been acquired in U. S. 
markets from American investors (see Point 5 above). 
Foreign assets of types covered by the program and acquired as 
"free delivery" items--that is, as new gifts or, in the case of trust 
companies or trust departments of commercial banks, in new accounts 
deposited with the institution--are not defined as covered assets, if 
they are acquired after December 31, 1967. Such assets should be reported 
as a memorandum item, as should all loans held that are guaranteed or 
participated in by the Export-Import Bank or the Department of Defense, 
insured by the Foreign Credit Insurance Association. 
Credits to certain U. S. corporations 
Any loan or investment acquired by a nonbank financial insti-
tution after June 30, 1968, that involves the advance of funds to a 
domestic corporation which is simply a financing conduit (commonly known 

4.35 9 
-16-
as a "Delaware sub"), and which in turn will transmit the funds to a 
foreign business, should be reported as a foreign asset if one or more 
foreigners own a majority of the stock of the "Delaware" corporation. 
The amounts of such foreign loans or investments should be classified 
according to the country where the funds are actually to be used, not 
according to the residence of the owners of the "Delaware" corporation. 
In the event that U. S. residents hold a majority ownership 
interest in the "Delaware" corporation, no part of a loan or investment 
in such a corporation is to be regarded as a foreign asset of the insti-
tution. 
ligasing of physical goods 
The foreign leasing activities of firms which engage primarily 
in the leasing of physical assets (e.g., computers, real property, ships, 
aircraft), and which are not owned or controlled by a U. S. financial 
institution, are not reportable under the nonbank program. However, 
such activities are reportable when they are undertaken by nonbank 
financial institutions. These institutions should report the book value 
°f any physical assets leased to foreigners on the appropriate line of 
the quarterly form they file with their Federal Reserve Bank. 
Investment in certain foreign Insurance ventures 
Net investment in foreign insurance ventures should be reported 
as such wherever possible. In the case of any such ventures in which 
there is no segregated net investment, the U. S. insurance company may 
e*clude from its foreign assets investments within the foreign country 
involved, in amounts up to 110 per cent of reserves accumulated on in-

4360 
-17-
surance sold to residents of that country, or (if it is larger) the 
minimum deposit of cash or securities required as a condition of doing 
insurance business within that country. 
Lon^-term credits to developing-country subsidiaries of U. S. corporations 
Institutions are requested to discuss with their Federal 
Reserve Bank in advance any future long-term loans or direct security 
placements that would involve extensions of credit of $500,000 or more 
to private business borrowers located in the developing countries. 
Reporting requirement 
Each nonbank financial institution holding, on any quarterly 
reporting date, covered assets of $500,000 or more, or total foreign 
financial assets of $5 million or more, is requested to file a statistical 
report covering its total holdings on that date with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of the Federal Reserve district in which its principal office is 
located. The reports are due within 20 days following the close of 
each calendar quarter, and forms may be obtained by contacting the 
Federal Reserve Bank. 
Institutions with holdings below these levels, although not 
requested to file formal reports, are also expected to abide by the pro-
visions of the program. 
£overed assets in excess of ceiling 
For some institutions, repatriation of liquid funds, cessation 
new investment in the developed countries of continental Western 
Europe, and restraint on reinvestment of other covered assets was not 
sufficient to result in achievement during 1968 of the year-end target 

4361 
P. 
- lu -
ceilmg specified under the 1968 program. In most such instances, 
there may have been special circumstances--such as the existence at 
year-end 196/ of firm commitments to invest, the need to accommodate 
requests for the b^na fide financing of U. S. exports, or the nonmarketable 
nature of the institution's holdings. Nevertheless, every institution 
whose December 31, 1 68, holdings of covered assets exceed 5 per cent 
>-'f its ad usted base-date holdings sh uld review its situation with 
Its Federal Reserve ank with a view to working out an individually 
tailored program for achieving a maximum reduction in the institJtion's 
covered foreign assets consistent with the guideline ceiling during 1969. 
In view of the balance of payments objectives of the program, 
it is noted that covered investments of nonbank financial institutions 
may be permitted to exceed the guideline ceiling to the extent that the 
funds for such investment are borrowed abroad for investment in the same 
country or in countries that are subject to the same or more liberal 
guideline limitations. Thus, funds borrowed in the developed countries 
°f cont.nental Western Europe may be used to finance investments in 
these countries and elsewhere, and funds borrowed in other developed 
countries (except Canada and Japan) may be used to finance investment 
in covered foreign assets anywhere but in the developed countries of 
continental Western Europe. Any institution desiring to offset foreign 
borrowing against foreign investment, however, should discuss its plans 
with the Federal Reserve Bank before entering into such an arrangement. 

436 
O 
-19-
NOTE.--Developed countries other than Canada and Japan: continental 
Western Europe--Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany (Federal 
Republic), Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, 
Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, and Switzerland; other developed 
countries are: Abu Dhabi, Australia, the Bahamas, Bahrain, Bermuda, 
Hong Kong, Iran, Iraq, Ireland, Kuwait, Kuwait-Saudi Arabia Neutral Zone, 
Libya, Hew Zealand, Qatar, Republic of South Africa, Saudi Arabia, and 
the United Kingdom. Also to be considered "developed" are the following 
countries: Albania, Bulgaria, the People's Republic of China, Cuba, 
Czechoslovakia, Estonia, Hungary, Communist-controlled Korea, Latvia, 
Lithuania, Outer Mongolia, Poland (including any area under its pro-
visional administration), Rumania, Soviet Zone of Germany and the Soviet 
sector of Berlin, Tibet, Union of Soviet Socialist Republics and the 
Kurile Islands, Southern Sakhalin, and areas in East Prussia which are 
under the provisional administration of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, and Communist-controlled Vietnam. 

Item No. 
12/16/63 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 S S I 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR1 
Mr. Frederic M. Peirce, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Fred: 
fi.-'-. i' . v 
. 
. 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to President Darryl R. Francis and First Vice 
President Dale M. Lewis at rates of $50,000 and $37,500 
per annum, respectively, effective January 1, 1969,'as re 
quested in your letter of December 12. 
With best regards, I am 
CV ' .' . 
' 
. > 1 . 
• 
Sincerely, 

4364 
Item No. 13 
12/16/68 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R 5 
O F T H E : 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Carl A. Thomsen, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
Dear Carl: 
In accordance with Governor Mitchell's conversation 
with you, the Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salary to President Philip E. Coldwell at the rate of $45,000 
per annum, effective January 1, 1969. 
The Board also approved the payment of salary, 
effective January 1, to First Vice President Tom W. Plant 
at the rate of $33,000 per annum, as requested in your 
letter of November 21. 
With best regards, 
I am 
Sincerely, 

4365 
Item No. 14 
.^ofcovJ- 
12/16/63 
- A^S^JTa. . 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• • . • • 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. 0. Meredith Wilson, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Meredith: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salaries to President Eliot J. Swan and First Vice President 
A. B. Merritt at rates of $60,000 and $37,000 per annum, 
respectively, effective January 1, 1969. These rates are 
those fixed by your Board of Directors, as reported in your 
letter of December 4. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 

4366 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 15 
12/16/63 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
. v 
>.V>J • : " ; 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 18, 1968. 
A > 
A 
- : 
' 
. . 
. 
Very truly yours, 
,»f 
I 
' 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
Name 
Harry Angney 
Daniel Aquilino 
Ansgar R. Berge 
Robert W. Eisenmenger 
Luther M. Hoyle, Jr. 
Stanley B. Lacks 
Harry R. Mitiguy 
Laurence H. Stone 
Jarvis M. Thayer, Jr. 
G. Gordon Watts 
parker B. Willis 
paul S. Anderson 
Lee J. Aubrey 
John J. Barrett 
Robert V. Clapp 
John A. Hayes 
Ripley M. Keating 
James R. Kent 
Loring C. Nye 
°onald A. Pelletier 
Robert M. Scanlan 
Mauripe P. Shea, III 
James T. Timberlake 
Richard A. Walker 
Paul M. Metzger 
Richard E. Randall 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Vice President 
$30,000 
Vice President 
22,500 
Vice President 
26,500 
Vice President and Director of Research 
28,000 
Vice President 
23,000 
General Auditor 
24,500 
Vice President 
26,500 
Vice President and General Counsel 
26,000 
Vice President 
24,500 
Vice President 
24,500 
Vice President and Economic Adviser 
21,500 
Financial Economist 
21,000 
Assistant Vice President 
21,500 
Accounting Officer 
16,500 
Assistant General Auditor 
16,500 
Assistant Vice President 
18,500 
Building Consulting Officer 
16,500 
Assistant Vice President 
16,500 
Assistant Vice President 
18,500 
Assistant Vice President 
17,500 
Assistant Vice President 
20,000 
Assistant Vice President 
16,500 
Bank Information Officer 
18,500 
Assistant Vice President 
21,500 
Secretary and Assistant Counsel 
17,000 
Assistant Vice President 
18,500 

1 djjs&stL.. 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
4368 
Item No. 16 
12/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 19, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The 
rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 6, 1968. 
3 ohr ( 
• V ;
 1 • 
/ i v i 
, iV'Sfe 
c;,'.., 
It is noted that Messrs. F. T. Davis, A. H. Noa, 
and W. E. Marple will reach retirement age during 1969. 
Accordingly, salary payments to them are approved only to 
the date of their retirements. 
i.1 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
V 
V. 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
Name 
William H. Braun, Jr. 
J°hn J. Clarke 
Charles A. Coombs 
peter Fousek 
Edward G. Guy 
Marcus A. Harris 
Alan R. Holmes 
Robert G. Link 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
Felix T. Davis 
George Garvy 
Bruce K. MacLaury 
sPencer S. Marsh, Jr. 
Thomas C. Sloane 
George C. Smith 
peter D. Sternlight 
Thomas 0. Waage 
David E. Bodner 
^• Thomas Combader 
Robert J. Crowley 
Richard G. Davis 
Ka^l L. Ege 
Martin French 
Edward J. Geng 
John T. Keane 
Peter Lang 
Leonard Lapidus 
William E. Marple 
Madeline McWhinney 
Paul Meek 
Donald C. Niles 
Everett B. Post 
Lawrence E. Quackenbush 
Frederick C. Schadrack,Jr. 
William M. Schultz 
Kenneth E. Small 
Frederick L. Smedley 
Robert C. Thoman 
Leonard I. Bennetts 
£°uis J. Brendel 
Robert L. Cooper 
Richard A. Debs 
^ederick W. Deming 
Matthew C. Drexler 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Vice President 
$33 500 
Vice President and Special Legal Adviser 
37 400 
Vice President 
44 000 
Vice President 
35 500 
Vice President and General Counsel 
37 000 
Vice President 
44 000 
Vice President 
41 800 
Vice President 
37 400 
Vice President 
34 100 
Vice President 
37 000 
Vice President 
34 100 
Economic Adviser 
34 100 
Vice President 
33 000 
Market Adviser 
30 800 
Assistant General Counsel 
30 800 
General Auditor 
34 100 
Vice President 
33 000 
Vice President 
35 200 
Assistant Vice President 
26 400 
Assistant Vice President 
24 200 
Assistant Vice President 
24 200 
Adviser 
30 000 
Assistant Vice President 
27 000 
Assistant Vice President 
24 200 
Assistant Vice President 
30 000 
Assistant Vice President 
24 000 
Adviser (Foreign) 
26 000 
Assistant Vice President 
27 000 
Assistant Vice President 
25 300 
Assistant Vice President 
28 500 
Assistant Vice President 
29 000 
Assistant Vice President 
28 600 
Assistant Vice President 
30 000 
Assistant Vice President 
25 300 
Assistant Vice President 
28 100 
Assistant Vice President 
25 900 
Assistant Vice President 
28 000 
Assistant Vice President 
28 000 
Assistant Vice President 
27 000 
Manager 
21 500 
Manager 
24 500 
Manager 
24 200 
Secretary and Assistant Counsel (A) 
27 500 
Manager (On Leave) 
25 300 
Manager 
20 900 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
Name 
John E. Flanagan 
Fred H. Klopstock 
James H. Oltman 
A. Marshall Puckett 
Edwin S. Rothman 
Herbert H. Ruess 
Betty Jean Shea 
Robert Young, Jr. 
John F. Allen 
John T. Arnold 
James 0. Aston 
x m n g M. Auerbach 
Armond J. Braiger 
John Chowansky 
Joseph R. Coyle 
Howard F. Crumb 
Adam R. Dick 
Edna E. Ehrlich 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Frederick L. Frey 
*alph H. Gelder 
Richard Hoenig 
Matthew J. Hoey 
Arthur H. Noa 
Scott E. Pardee 
^win R. Powers 
Charles R. Pricher 
£eopold S. Rassnick 
Francis H. Rohrbach 
falter S. Rushmore 
Stackhouse 
Aloysius J. Stanton 
pUth Ann Tyler 
philip Van Orman 
Title 
Assistant General Auditor 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Assistant Counsel (A) 
Assistant Counsel (A) 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Securities Trading Officer 
Manager 
Manager 
Senior Economist 
Assistant Counsel (B) and 
Assistant Secretary 
Chief Examiner 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Assistant Counsel (B) 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Assistant Counsel (B) 
^ngus A. Maclnnes, Jr. 
A. Curth, Jr. 
R°nald B. Gray 
Jerald ,H. Greene 
Arthur A. Randall 
Buffalo Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Cashier 
Acting Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 

4371 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
17 
12/16/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
j - 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
p . * 
A D D R E S S 
Q F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Robert N. Hilkert, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Hilkert: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 21, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

1 i -<• , 1 „ , 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Name 
James V. Vergari 
David P. Eastburn 
David C. Melnicoff 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Hugh Barrie 
G- William Metz 
Lawrence C. Murdoch, 
N°rman G. Dash 
Edward A. Aff 
JJarry W. Roeder 
William A. James 
Warren J. Gustus 
Joseph M. Case 
James P. Giacobello 
Thomas K. Desch 
Kenneth M. Snader 
^eldon W. Stahl 
^ 
H. Willes 
Jack P. Besse 
Leonard E. Markford 
H. James 
*alPh E. Haas 
J-Hiam F. Staats 
^ l l H a m L > E n s o r 
JJarren R. Moll 
^enry J. Nelson 
• Russell Connor 
Jr 
Alb 
Lamont Magee 
Ssell P. Sudders 
Sa 
ert Spencer, Jr. 
muel J. Culbert 
iliary H. Holloway 
^atIles A. Agnew, Jr. 
p Vid P. Noonan 
geor8e C. Haag 
u8ene W. Lowe 
4372 
Annua1 
Title 
Sa lary 
Senior Vice President 
$34 000 
Senior Vice President 
30 000 
Senior Vice President 
30 000 
Senior Vice President 
28 000 
Vice President 
27 000 
Vice President and General Auditor 
25 500 
Vice President and Secretary 
23 000 
Vice President 
23 000 
Vice President 
22 000 
Vice President 
22 000 
Vice President 
21 000 
Economic Adviser 
23 000 
Assistant Vice President 
22 500 
Chief Examining Officer 
22 000 
Examining Officer 
21 000 
Assistant Vice President 
21 000 
Senior Economist 
20 500 
Senior Economist 
20 000 
Assistant Vice President 
20 000 
Examining Officer 
19 500 
Examining Officer 
19 000 
Assistant Vice President 
19 000 
Senior Economist 
18 500 
Examining Officer 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
17 500 
Assistant Vice President 
17 500 
Assistant Vice President and 
Assistant Secretary 
17 000 
Assistant General Auditor 
17 000 
Assistant Vice President 
17 000 
Assistant Vice President 
16 500 
Bank Services Officer 
16 500 
Assistant Counsel 
16 000 
Collections Officer 
16 000 
Assistant Personnel Officer 
14 500 
Public Information Officer 
14 000 
Securities Officer 
14 000 

d O <vj5 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 18 
12/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
... 
Kotv,- • ; 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are tho^e fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
October 18, 1968. 
It is noted that Messrs. Dorn and Crowley will 
reach retirement age during 1969. Accordingly, salary 
payments to them are approved only to the date of their 
retirements. 
Very truly yours, 
• .-'Ch,Tc {: • 
'•Hoi? 
Enclosure 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
I / 

Name 
Roger Clouse 
John Hoy 
Maurice Mann 
Cliff Miller 
George Booth 
paul Breidenbach 
Elmer Fricek 
Bill Hendricks 
Harry Huning 
Fred Kelly 
Elfer Miller 
J°e Ginnane 
Bob Hoover 
Milt Pugh 
L es Selby 
0 scar Beach 
A^ne Erste 
T°m Ormiston 
B°b Showalter 
Harold Swart 
Dave Weitzel 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
Title 
Vice President and Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President and General Economist 
Vice President 
Vice President and Cashier 
Vice President and General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President and Assistant 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Cashier 
Secretary 
Annual 
Salary 
$29,500 
30,500 
32,500 
30,500 
23,500 
21,500 
24,000 
23,000 
23,000 
22,000 
22,000 
18,500 
18,000 
19,000 
19,500 
17,000 
15,000 
17,000 
15,000 
14,000 
15,000 
Fred Kiel 
Bob Duggan 
Benjamin 
J°e Crowley 
Howard Taylor 
Clyde Harrell 
Jim Campbell 
Charlie Houpt 
B°b Aufderheide 
P aul Dorn 
Cincinnati Branch 
Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Pittsburgh Branch 
Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$29,500 
21,000 
17,000 
15,000 
17,000 
$30,500 
18,500 
18,500 
15,000 
17,000 
* " 

Item No.°l4 7 
12/16/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
C. 
J.- G 
if,, ]•* 
; 
' F Y FI.V .. .' 
11, if 
• h tf 
1 i , • 
n 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Wilson H. Elkins, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Elkins: 
" w,. ^ 
r M * , j 
c 
\l l u 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 14, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
.,!, o 
G, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

4376 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
Name 
Title 
w. S. Farmer 
Senior Vice President and 
General Counsel 
J. Parthemos 
Senior Vice President and 
Director of Research 
u. S. Martin 
Senior Vice President 
w. C. Glover 
Vice President 
A. V. Myers, Jr. 
Vice President 
A. N. Snellings 
Vice President 
J. G. Dickerson, Jr. 
Vice President 
H. E. Ford 
Cashier 
R. E. Sanders, Jr."1 
Vice President 
w. F. Upshaw 
Vice President and 
Upshaw 
Associate General Counsel 
J. F. Viverette 
Vice President 
J. L. Nosker 
Vice President 
G. H. Snead 
General Auditor 
J. E. Friend 
Assistant Vice President 
V. E. Pregeant, III 
Assistant Vice President and Secretary 
F. D. Stinnett, Jr. 
Assistant Vice President 
c. B. Beavers 
Assistant Vice President 
W. T. Cunningham, Jr. Assistant Vice President 
J. H. Wyatt 
Assistant Vice President 
L. W. Bostian, Jr. 
Assistant Vice President 
A. L. Tilton 
Assistant Vice President 
w. C. Fitzgerald 
Assistant General Counsel 
C. D. Porter, Jr. 
Chief Examiner 
J. L. Allin, Jr. 
Assistant Vice President 
w. H. Wallace 
Assistant Vice President 
J. G. Deitrick 
Assistant Vice President 
J. F. Rand 
Assistant Vice President 
J. C. Horigan 
Assistant General Auditor 
G. B. Evans 
Assistant Cashier 
w. 0. Pearce 
Assistant Cashier 
J. R. Monhollon 
Vice President 
w. B. Harrison, III 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$28,000 
28 
28 
20 
21 
23 
23 
23 
25 
25 
25 
27 
24 
16 
17 
17 
17 
17 
17 
18 
18 
19 
19 
19 
21 
22 
23 
20 
14 
13 
23 
18 
000 
500 
000 
500 
000 
500 
500 
000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
000 
000 
000 
500 
500 
500 
000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
F. Hagner 
A. A. Stewart, Jr. 
F. Armstrong 
G« L. Wilson 
R. Jones, Jr. 
Baltimore Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
28,000 
24,000 
15,000 
17,000 
18,500 

< s 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (Continued) 
. 
V ' ; , k : 
Name 
E. F. MacDonald 
S. P. Fishburne 
W. W. Keller 
C. Krueger, Jr 
Z. Eubanks 
0. L. Martin, Jr. 
Charlotte Branch 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Annual 
Salary 
$29,000 
23,500 
18,000 
18,000 
14,000 
14,000 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
4378 
Item No. 20 
12/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
ik. >. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
. 
*—<-
^ i* •.*' if f' 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
u 
L V !.•..!•.. 
, 
, ; . 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 29, 1968. 
_ 
j 
It is noted that Mr. Magee will reach retirement 
age during 1969. Accordingly, salary payments to him are 
approved only to the date of his retirement. 
• 
A. 
Jr 
i.\ J; ; . i; II 
Enclosure. 
Ccow 
J. 
i \ 1 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
4373 
E. McCorvey 
firown R. Rawlings 
Charles T. Taylor 
Harry Brandt 
B i H y H. Hargett 
R» H. Stephenson 
W- M. Davis 
Richard A. Sanders 
James R. Smith 
Harry C. Schiering 
George Hibbert 
Robert E. Heck 
Hiram J. Honea 
Beyrl E. Howard 
C. Mason Ford 
J- Lyle Hardin 
James B. Forbes 
George H. Gaffney 
Dan L. Hendley 
Eric Hingst 
Charles D. East 
Kennfeth J. Kearney 
wm.W. D y k e s 
°elmar Harrison 
Clifford M. Saxon 
• T. Harris 
Wtn- A. Waller1, Jr, 
James D. Shi, III 
E« C. Rainey 
Vestus Crow 
J. Stacklin 
e°il L. Williams 
Jeffrey J. Wells 
Ralph Thurman 
^lton D. Sands 
Stuart H. Magee 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President-Research 
Vice President-Research 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Counsel 
General Auditor 
Assistant Counsel 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
Birmingham Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Jacksonville Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Nashville Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$28 
28 
28 
23 
22 
22 
22 
20 
20 
19 
19 
19 
19 
18 
17 
17 
16 
16 
16 
15 
15 
15 
14 
14 
14 
,500 
,500 
,500 
,500 
,500 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,500 
,500 
,000 
,500 
,500 
,500 
,500 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
,000 
$22,000 
17,500 
14,000 
$27,000 
20,000 
15,000 
14,000 
$21,000 
16,000 
14,000 
14,000 

Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
43S0 
'..'I / ^ 
Name 
^thur H. Kantner 
George C. Guynn 
M. Junca 
pierre M. Viguerie 
New Orleans Branch 
Title 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$21,500 
19,000 
16,000 
14,000 
i ).: 
< if! ' . 
. t 
• • ) r c • f • 
,; r j !.'(.:» .' i • 
•.'••< UI •• . 

4381 
BOARD OF GDVERNDRB 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 21 
12/16/68 
1 • i » 
:/ • . . . 
* 
* a. 
r.: . * 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
.'Ml 
J 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 8, 1968. 
It is noted that Messrs. Edler, Endres, and 
Jones will reach retirement age during 1969. Accordingly, 
salary payments to them are approved only to the date of 
their retirements. 
• \ . 
i 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

3P 
4 3 » 2 
Name 
A 
T 
J- Anschutz 
• T. Baughman 
Buddie 
C- E. 
H. C. 
^ J. 
G. W. 
L. A. 
p. A. 
D. M. 
W. 
C. 
J. J. 
0. 
W. H. 
A- M. 
V- A. 
A. 
W. J. 
J. Belford (Miss) 
Bierbauer 
Buell 
Capouch 
Cloos 
Davis 
Dons 
Doyle 
Dybeck 
Edler 
Endres 
Fults 
Gram 
Gustavson 
Hansen 
Heath 
Hocter 
k' H. Jones 
' G. Kaufman 
K- Kroll 
Larson 
«• J. 
j* A- Moffatt 
jj1 
Morrison 
°rothy M. Nichols (Mrs.) 
5' 
Scheider ' 
A- Scheld 
Jj' s- Schultz 
L- Smyth 
> 
atarin 
I' A- Stiles 
p' Stojetz 
g 
Thompson 
Q* J- Wagner 
C- WeIke 
Johnson 
Win?11 G* Kvasnicka 
^.jUam T. Newport 
Hiiu m R°oney 
e r t G. Swanson 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Vice President and 
Director of Research 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President-Control Officer 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President and Economist 
Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Assistant Counsel and Assistant Secretary 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President and 
Assistant Secretary 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President, General Counsel 
and Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President and Assistant 
Director of Research 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vic6 President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
\ 
Annual 
Salary 
$16,000 
33 
16 
27 
19 
15 
23 
21 
22 
24 
17 
14 
30 
22 
15 
28 
19 
22 
18 
30 
22 
17 
25 
27 
25 
21 
19 
24 
30 
30 
19 
22 
15 
23 
17 
27 
18 
16 
18 
17 
20 
20 
17 
17 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
500 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
500 
000 
500 
000 
000 
500 
500 
000 
500 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 

J, 
J 
J 
43,83 
Reserve Bank of Chicago (Continued) 
' 
' 
r I 
* • 
>.;• r„: T ; 
llffi'J** 
.U 
r 
7km 
J 
J 
J 
J 
J 
'J 
,t 
& 
J 
Name__ 
C r 
Q • Conrad 
Lamphere 
J!* J- Purol 
A. Reame 
A. Swaney 
' L- Ziie 
Detroit Branch 
Title 
/ fV • 
/•l^v--'1. • 
I 
i 
; • • •1,JE;v!V»-% 
. 
••i-.Vv.^-.V-,^''-
•'TIII V. •' 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President and 
Assistant General Counsel 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$15,000 
25,000 
15,000 
15,000 
28,000 
15,000 
-.5 
<: ; u 
C V.'. t; •. 
«r> • c 
: <) 
; 

* V* 
4384 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 22 
12/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
A 
H^tU;; ; 
Mil 
iJk i}. < 
CONFIDENTIAL (ER) 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
f^lfe if. 
-M'j H , 
<•*» 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
i'f 
-'J i ; 
-uin. 
^ M d v 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
,by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 14, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
I'M; 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
'iS 88 
Name 
N°Ward H. Weigel 
7SePh C. Wotawa 
Jones 
ie°nall C. Andersen 
L. Bennett 
X. Dunne 
"Oodrow W. Gilmore 
®°rge W. Hirshman 
JJlbur H. Isbell 
^phen Koptis 
p
Joh* W. Menges 
' Garland Russell, Jr. 
S ^ n N. Bowsher 
Jaurence T. Britt 
"arl H. Chapin 
H. Crist 
°rge W. Dennison 
'°SePh P. Garbarini 
M. Geiger 
J J- Hofer 
! lJis L. Johns 
J[. More 
P a u ] 
a
m 
R * 
M
U
E
L
L
E
R 
Q 1 Salzman 
c; W iUiam Schrader, Jr 
Ha 
E- silva 
r ? ^ E. Uthoff 
' E- Walker 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Senior Vice President 
$31 000 
Senior Vice President 
29 000 
Senior Vice President 
31 000 
Vice President 
26 500 
Vice President 
21 500 
Vice President 
25 000 
Vice President 
22 000 
General Auditor 
25 000 
Vice President 
25 000 
Vice President 
24 000 
Vice President 
24 000 
Vice President, General Counsel 
and Secretary 
24 500 
Assistant Vice President 
22 500 
Assistant Vice President 
18 000 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
19 000 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
15 000 
Assistant Vice President 
19 000 
Assistant Vice President 
17 500 
Assistant Vice President 
16 000 
Assistant Vice President 
20 000 
Assistant Vice President 
19 000 
Assistant Counsel and Assistant Secretary 
16 000 
Assistant General Auditor 
16 500 
Assistant Vice President 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
18 000 
Chief Examiner 
20 000 
Assistant Vice President 
16 000 
ft 
Breen 
chael t. Moriarty 
Druelinger 
Little Rock Branch 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President and 
Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
$25,000 
19,000 
17,000 
16,000 
L. Henry 
^ 
E. Conrad 
A* Nelson 
E. Harl ow 
Louisville Branch 
Senior Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President and 
Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
$29,000 
19,000 
16,000 
15,000 

Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (Continued) 
Memphis Branch 
43«6 
i 
- -
M . - i ™. 
• t>;«; ; ,, 
^ugene A. Leonard 
Benjamin B. Monaghan 
*aul I. Black, Jr. 
Ruth A. Bryant 
Title 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President and 
Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$26,000 
17,000 
16,000 
14,000 

— 
'ft 
4387 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 23 
12/16/68 
V 
•iV.tr 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter 
of November 29, 1968. 
It is noted that Messrs. Bronner and Heath will 
reach retirement age during 1969. Accordingly, salary 
payments to them are approved only to the date of their 
retirements. 
Very truly yours, 
'i. v, .... 
I , f- 
^ 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
\l iiV 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
'iS 88 
Annual 
il" t*K 
C. w. 
J- A. 
K. 
c. E 
C. 
P- J. 
L. G. 
a. 
L. 
c. w. 
J. 
J- p. 
R . 
D 
0. 
0. p 
»•»! 
A. 
w. 
G. 
J- R. 
C- H. 
E. 
>• 0. 
M. L. 
C. 
Name 
Groth 
MacDonald 
Fossum 
Bjork 
Bronner 
Cramer 
Gable 
Hellweg 
Knous 
Nelson 
Dreitzler 
Olin 
Graham 
Beeth 
Litterer 
McDonald 
O'Brien 
Worcester 
Hughes 
Vogel 
Bergquist 
Gainor 
Ha11in 
Burstein 
Heiber 1/ 
Title 
Salary 
Senior Vice President 
$29 000 
Senior Vice President 
29 000 
Senior Vice President 
27 500 
General Auditor 
18 000 
Vice President 
18 500 
Vice President 
22 500 
Vice President 
22 500 
Vice President 
22 000 
Vice President 
23 500 
Vice President and Director of Research 
25 000 
Vice President 
23 000 
Secretary and Assistant Vice President 
22 000 
General Counsel 
22 000 
Assistant Vice President 
18 500 
Assistant Vice President 
19 000 
Assistant Vice President 
22 000 
Assistant Vice President 
20 000 
Assistant Vice President 
19 500 
Building Officer 
20 000 
Chief Examiner 
19 000 
Assistant Vice President 
14 500 
Assistant Vice President 
18 500 
Emergency Operating Officer 
16 000 
Assistant General Counsel 
19 000 
Assistant General Auditor 
17 000 
>C' A- Van Nice 
j W- Fernelius 1/ 
' L- Heath 
Helena Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
$26,000 
21,000 
14,000 
^ 
Helena temporarily. 
" A t Head Office until about May 1, 1969. 

4 ; 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 24 
12/16/68 
^kjiri : 
i.' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E B P • N O E N C C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
J. J w . ' , 
'J r 
.">* il „ 
vtf 
•if'/";''*' ' 
'.Jftf^C : 
Mr. P. E. Coldwell, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 14, 1968. 
It is noted that Messrs. Bohne and Hudson will 
reach retirement age during 1969. Accordingly, salary 
payments to them are approved only to the date of their 
retirements. 
Very truly yours, 
M'f* C« 
„1 
> 
' 
a, 
• ij /; 
i 
• 
c 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
'iS 88 
Name 
^ames L. Cauthen 
l°y E. Bohne 
^homas R. Sullivan 
,eor8e F. Rudy 
*alPh T. Green 
Arthur H. Lang 
7 m es A. Parker 
^ e r t H. Boykin 
ny J. Salvaggio 
' 
Pritchett 
p60n W. Cowan 
j W. Vorlop, Jr. 
g* 
Rowe 
' 
Thaxton, Jr. 
0. Russell 
~ rry E. Robinson 
C. Cochran, III 
• E. Spreng 
^rman B. Hudson 
S^d
A
D-R
Ingram 
Si H 
Brown 
>ldney J. Alexander, 
6 S S e D. Sanders 
Jr. 
Title 
Senior Vice President and Controller 
Senior Vice President and Cashier 
Vice President 
General Counsel 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Vice President and Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Director of Research 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Counsel 
Data Processing Officer 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Annual 
Salary 
$28,500 
24,000 
25,500 
25,000 
23,500 
23,000 
20,500 
20,500 
20,000 
19,500 
19,500 
19,500 
19,500 
19,000 
17,000 
16,500 
16,000 
16,000 
14,400 
14,000 
14,000 
14,000 
14,000 
^edric W. Reed 
rrest E. Coleman 
°mas H. Robertson 
El Paso Branch 
Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$21,500 
16,000 
14,000 
Ha L. Cook 
jf8c° R. Story 
JohJ* S c h o e n h o f f 
n N. Ainsworth 
Houston Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$31,500 
18,500 
15,000 
13,000 
j?^ H. Moore 
T, ederick J. Schmid 
C " 8 C. Cole 
°bert w. Schultz 
San Antonio Branch 
Vice President 
Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$23,000 
15,000 
13,100 
13,100 

4391 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 25 
12/16/63 
'<t ^ 
• 
"•»>» 
I t 
v * i-fU. : 
i 
: f k : 
•• '* V-
0 
V •, 
'"T>. 
I"? 
H, 
V, 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 17, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
• > 
•• ; 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, for the calendar year 1969, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
November 7, 1968. 
It is noted that Mr. Scott will reach retirement 
age during 1969. Accordingly, salary payments to him are 
approved only to the date of his retirement. 
Very truly yours, 
m i 
C.T 
?}v; 
ih C, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure, 
a' 

43j»2 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (Continued) 
J. H. 
X. L. 
D. M. 
G. R. 
E. J. 
R. Ma 
R. E. 
W. F. 
J, B. 
J. N. 
E, E. 
w. M. 
H. B. 
R. A. 
E. E. 
G. w. 
D. V. 
R. G. 
E. A. 
D. L. 
A. S. 
A. G. 
W. L. 
R. G. 
w. E. 
L. E. 
P. w. 
W. G. 
J. J. 
J. M. 
H. A. 
K A. 
G. D. 
Name 
Craven 
Jennings 
Davenport 
Kelly 
Martens 
urer, jr. 
McKendry 
Scott 
Williams 
Aamodt 
Bernstein 
Burke 
Jamison 
Karlsson 
Livingston 
Lynn 
Mas ten 
Retallick 
Wells 
Alexander 
Carella 
Conte 
Cooper 
Lambert 
0'Donne11 
Reilly 
Cavan 
DeVries 
Carson 
Davis 
Erne 
Jones 
Parker 
E 
Brown 
J' A- Thomas 
p* K- Grimm 
* 
Skinnei 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Senior Vice President 
$31 500 
Senior Vice President 
27 000 
Vice President 
20 750 
Vice President 
21 500 
Senior Vice President 
26 000 
Vice President 
23 000 
General Auditor 
23 000 
Vice President and General Counsel 
23 000 
Vice President 
23 000 
Examining Officer 
19 000 
Assistant Vice President 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
20 500 
Assistant Vice President 
20 000 
Chief Examiner 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
16 000 
Director of Research 
20 000 
Assistant Vice President 
18 000 
Assistant Vice President 
16 000 
Assistant Vice President 
17 000 
Administrative Assistant 
15 000 
Assistant Cashier 
15 500 
Assistant General Auditor 
16 000 
Assistant General Counsel 
17 500 
Assistant Cashier 
16 000 
Assistant Cashier 
15 000 
Assistant General Counsel 
16 500 
Los Angeles Branch 
Senior Vice President and Manager 
$31, 000 
Vice President 
20, 000 
Assistant Manager 
14, 500 
Assistant Manager 
15, 000 
Assistant Manager 
15, 000 
Assistant Manager 
16, 500 
Assistant Manager 
15, 000 
Portland Branch 
Vice President and Manager 
$24, 000 
Assistant Vice President 
16, 500 
Assistant Manager 
16, 000 
Assistant Manager 
14, 500 

Inderal Reserve Bank of San Francisco (continued) 
Salt Lake City Branch 
1, •sF'L: 
i 
' *' 1 ( 
Name 
L. Price 
G. Holman 
C. Dunn 
W. Sheets 
Title 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Manager 
Assistant Manager 
439 
Annual 
Salary 
$23,000 
16,500 
15,000 
14,000 
R. Sandstrom 
P. Glascock 
R. Liggett 
F* R. Smith 
Seattle Branch 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Manager 
Assistant Manager 
$24,000 
18,000 
14,000 
14,500 

sfc -
3CJARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
4 3 * * 4 • 
Item No. 26 
12/16/63 
MLRES^-' 
MSli c 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 18, 1963 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
As requested in your letter of November 27, 1968, the 
Board of Governors approves the following minimum and maximum 
salaries for the respective grades of the employees' salary 
structure at the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, effective 
January 6, 1969: 
Grade 
Minimum Salary 
Maximum Salary 
1 
$ 3,430 
$ 4,460 
2 
3,550 
4,790 
3 
3,790 
5,120 
4 
4,080 
5,580 
5 
4,430 
6,030 
6 
4,820 
6,530 
7 
5,270 
7,120 
8 
5,800 
7,830 
9 
6,440 
8,700 
10 
7,130 
9,630 
11 
7,900 
10,680 
12 
8,730 
11,790 
13 
9,740 
13,150 
14 
10,890 
14,710 
15 
12,180 
16,440 
16 
13,570 
18,340 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respective 

• :• • J ir 
Mr 
W, -
Mr. Karl R. Bopp 
- 
2 
-
positions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below 
the minimums of their grades as a result of the structure increase 
should be brought within appropriate ranges not later than three 
months after the effective date of the new structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
