MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 29, 1973 

2243 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 29, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had been present specifically for the 
review then withdrew from the room and the following entered: 
1/ Withdrew from meeting and reentered at points indicated in minutes. 
& 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2244 
8/29/72 
-2-
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel, and Plotkin, 
Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Messrs. Kakalec, Controller, and Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco 
August 17; by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on August 21; and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, and Dallas on August 24, 1972, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was unanimously 
S££roved) with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Edgewood Bank, 
Jacksonville, Florida, for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A 
copy 0f t-j^g better sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 1. 
On July 1, 1971, the Board forwarded to the Comptroller of the 
Currency a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e rger of Montgomery County Trust Company, Amsterdam, New York, into First 
^ust Company of Albany, National Association, Albany, New York, (now 
inkers Trust Company of Albany, National Association). The report concluded 
that the overall competitive effect of the proposed merger would be adverse. 

8/29/72 
-3-
However, the application was withdrawn in September 1971. The banks 
had now refiled an application to effect the proposed merger, and the 
Comptroller had asked if the Board wished to change its original report 
the competitive factors. As recommended in a memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 17, 1972, the Board 
unanimously agreed to allow the July 1, 1971, report to stand as originally 
filed. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
denial on July 25, 1972, of the applications of Financial Securities 
Corporation, Lake City, Tennessee, to remain a bank holding company and 
t o retain shares of First Farmers Bank, Athens, and First National Bank 
o f Anderson County, Lake City, both in Tennessee. Copies of the order 
and statement are attached under Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
denial on August 10, 1972, of the applications of Bezanson Investments, 
and MorAmerica Financial Corporation, both of Cedar Rapids, Iowa, 
t o acquire shares of First Trust and Savings Bank, Wheatland, Iowa. Copies 
the order and statement are attached under Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Beneficial 
G°rPoration, Wilmington, Delaware, a one-bank holding company, for an 
exemption from the Bank Holding Company Act's restrictions on nonbanking 
activities. 
Issuance of an order reflecting that decision was also 
^j£horized. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 

2248 
8/29/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Community Banks 
of Florida, Inc., Seminole, Florida, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of five Florida banks and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Payment of time deposit prior to maturity. Farmers & Merchants 
National Bank, West Point, Nebraska, had requested a determination with 
respect to the payment of a time deposit prior to maturity. The bank 
stated that an attorney for the estate of a former customer had asked 
that the time deposit be paid prior to maturity in connection with the 
Settlement of the estate, and the bank was seeking a determination as to 
whether this situation constituted an emergency within the meaning of 
Section 217.4(d) of Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, thereby allowing 
the bank to pay the deposit prior to maturity. 
In a memorandum dated August 23, 1972, the Legal Division rec-
ommended that in this case the Board adhere to its present position regarding 
the payment of time deposits prior to maturity. A draft letter in that 
f°rm was attached. The Division also noted that the Board might wish to 
consider a general review of the early withdrawal rules. 
During discussion, while the Board indicated general agreement 
with the proposed letter, support was expressed for liberalization of 
the early withdrawal rules, and it was suggested that the matter be 
considered by Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 

2247 
x. a 
8/29/72 
-5-
The Board thereupon unanimously approved the letter to Farmers 
& Merchants National Bank. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. It was 
understood that liberalization of the early withdrawal rules would be 
considered by the Coordinating Committee. 
Western Bancshares. On May 22, 1972, the Board denied the 
applications of Western Bancshares, Inc., Stockton, Kansas, (1) to 
retain shares of Rooks County State Bank, Woodston, Kansas; and (2) to 
retain Woodston Agency, Woodston, Kansas, a general insurance agency. 
However, since the Board believed that these applications involved an 
unequal offer to shareholders, the order denying the applications was 
held pending the outcome of a public oral presentation that was held 
°n June 28, 1972, concerning whether the Board's equal offer and acqui-
sition debt policies had undue adverse effects on the transferability 
°f bank stock. 
Since the composition of the Board had changed since these 
applications were denied in May 1972, the applications were now resub-
mitted for the Board's consideration. 
In a memorandum dated August 21, 
l9?2, the Legal Division stated that the staff had reviewed the record 
o f the June 28 proceedings and continued to recommend denial of the 
applications. 
Other related documentation included a memorandum from 
^ e Division of Supervision and Regulation dated May 10, 1972, and a 
memorandum from Mr. Leavitt dated May 8, 1972. 

2248 
8/29/72 
-6-
After discussion the Board denied the applications, Governors 
Mitchell and Daane dissenting on the grounds that they believed that 
the adverse circumstances presented by the unequal offer to shareholders 
in this case were outweighed by favorable convenience and need factors. 
Issuance of an order reflecting the Board's decision was authorized. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 7. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Arvco, Inc. In a memorandum dated August 21, 1972, the Division 
°f Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommended 
denial of the application of Arvco, Inc., Arvada, Colorado, to remain 
a bank holding company by the retention of shares of Arvada State Bank, 
Arvada, Colorado. The favorable recommendation of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City was discussed in a memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated August 28, 1972. 
After discussion the Board unanimously denied the application, 
W]'-th the understanding that an order and statement reflecting that decision 
w°uld be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Governor Daane reentered the meeting at this point. 
Zions Utah Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated August 15, 1972, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of Zions Utah Bancorporation, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of Zions National Bank of Ogden, 
°Sden, Utah, a proposed new bank. 

2249 
8 / 2 9 / 7 2 
-7-
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governor 
Brimmer dissenting for the same reasons he had cited in his dissenting 
statement with respect to approval of the application of First National 
city Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire the successor by merger 
of The National Exchange Bank of Castleton-on-Hudson, New York (order 
dated July 7, 1972). Issuance of an order reflecting approval of the 
aPplication of Zions Utah Bancorporation was authorized. A copy is 
sttached as Item No. 8. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Melnicoff, Smith, O'Connell, Mcintosh, Burke, Kakalec, and Halley. 
Productivity programs. Mr. Holland referred to a request 
f^om the National Commission on Productivity and the Office of Management 
ar*d Budget for information regarding Federal programs designed to 
l*nprove productivity of the economy. It was agreed that the Board had 
n° such programs. A copy of the letter responding to this request is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The Federal Reserve System had also been requested to participate 
l n a program to develop Federal productivity indices. It was agreed 
that the Federal Reserve System was not in the category of agencies 
teferred to and that participation in this program would involve a 
considerable work load In developing productivity measurements and 
compiling the necessary reports. A copy of the response sent to the 
0ffice of Management and Budget is attached as Item No. 10. 

2250 
8/29/72 
-8-
Retirement allowance agreement. The Board unanimously approved 
a supplemental retirement allowance agreement dated August 8, 1972, between 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and Dr. John J. Balles, who was 
soon to take office as President of that Bank. Copies of the letter of 
aPproval sent to the Reserve Bank and of the agreement are attached under 
Item No. 11. 
At this point all members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, 
Me In icoff, Smith, and O'Connell withdrew and Mr. Anderson, Assistant 
director, Division of Administrative Services, joined the meeting. 
Change in plans for Martin Building. Mr. Melnicoff explained that 
Present plans called for some dining rooms to be located in the Martin 
Gilding for use by Board members and official staff and guests. 
It was 
Proposed that these facilities be reduced in order to enlarge the cafeteria 
sPace in the Martin Building and that additional Board member and staff 
fining room facilities be provided in the present Board Building. 
After discussion it was agreed that the plans for the terrace 
floor of the Martin Building be changed to enlarge the cafeteria and 
reduce the guest and staff dining room facilities on the premise that dining 
facilities in the present Board Building would be enlarged for the use of 
B°ard members, staff, and guests. As planned heretofore, the west end of 
the Martin Building terrace floor would contain provision for large group 
meetings and dining. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
/ 
Secreta ry 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
8/29/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
iVo'Scow*. 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
A D D R E S S 
O f l C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 29, 1972 
Board of Directors 
Edgewood Bank 
Jacksonville, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Edgewood Bank, Jacksonville, Florida, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, effective if 
and when, the bank opens for business under appropriate State 
authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the per-
mission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership, 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character ana condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in an unimpaired capital stock of not 
less than $500,000. and other capital funds of not 
less than $500,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called tc the provisions of the Board's 
lation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with cspecial reference to the section 
^ 8 . 7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

2252 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
It is understood that auy significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior tc opening for business, 
will be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved In order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 
3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock tc the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to six months from the date of this letter, unless the 
bank applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When 
the Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
With and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Beard of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
Reserve Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank 
will be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with 
the Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with repre-
sentatives of your bank means for making the services of the System 
ni°st useful tc you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
Enclosure 

22 
Item No. 2 
8/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FINANCIAL SECURITIES CORPORATION 
Order Denying Applications to Remain a Bank Holding Company and to 
Retain Shares of Banks 
Financial Securities Corporation, Lake City, Tennessee, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to remain a bank holding 
company through the retention of 65.12 per cent of the voting shares 
o f First Farmers Bank, Athens, Tennessee, and of 50.56 per cent of the 
v°ting shares of First National Bank of Anderson County, Lake City, 
Tennessee. Financial Securities Corporation has also applied for the 
Board's approval under 5 3(a)(3) of the Act to retain 31.6 per cent 
(included in the above-mentioned 65.12 per cent) of the voting shares 
First Farmers Bank, Athens, Tennessee. 
Notice of receipt of the applications, affording opportunity 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applications and all 
c°mments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
( X 2 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the applications are denied for the 
r e a9o n s set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. Applicant is 
Erected to take appropriate measures to effect a divestiture of con-
tr°l of First Farmers Bank, Athen, Tennessee, and of First National Bank 

2251 
-2-
Anderson County, Lake City, Tennessee, and is granted until year-end 
to effect said divestiture, unless such period is extended for 
8ood cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. No 
later than two months from the effective date of the Order herein, 
Applicant is required to report to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
the progress of said divestiture. A reduction of share holdings to 
5 Per cent or less of the outstanding voting shares of each of the banks 
involved would be regarded by the Board as appropriate in connection 
T;ith such divestiture. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective August 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
and Sheehan. Absent and not voting 
Governors Mitchell, 
rimmer, and Bucher. 

2255 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY 
FINANCIAL SECURITIES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL TO REMAIN A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
AND TO RETAIN SHARES OF BANKS 
Financial Securities Corporation, Lake City, Tennessee, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to remain a bank 
Elding company through the retention of 65.12 per cent of the voting 
shares of First Farmers Bank, Athens, Tennessee ("Farmers Bank"), and 
50.56 per cent of the voting shares of First National Bank of Anderson 
County, Lake City, Tennessee ("Anderson Bank"). Applicant states that 
it: acquired the aforementioned shares in August 1971, from the Athens 
financial Co., a partnership, in the mistaken belief that such a reorgani-
into corporate form did not require Board approval. The partnership, 
Athens Financial Co., acquired the aforementioned 50.56 per cent 
Merest in Anderson Bank and a 33.52 per cent interest (included in the 
aforementioned 65.12 per cent) in Farmers Bank prior to December 31, 
1 9 7 0; such acquisitions did not require Board approval since a partnership 
d i d not fall within the definition of "company" in the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act until that date. 
In a related application, Applicant has applied for the Board's 
aPProval under section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
(3)) to retain 31.6 per cent of the voting shares of Farmers Bank, 
V;hlch Applicant states were acquired by the Athens Financial Co. in 
January 1971 i n the mistaken belief that such action did not require Board 
aPProval. No equal offer was made to the minority shareholders of the 
bai*s involved. 

2 2 5 6 
-2-
Statutorv considerations. - Applicant was organized in August 
for the purpose of acquiring the interests in two banks held by 
a partnership made up of three individuals who are now the sole stock-
holders of Applicant. By virtue of its ownership interests in Farmers 
Sank and Anderson Bank, Applicant controls deposits of $27 million, 
which represents .3 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
i n the State, and is the smallest of the State's seven bank holding 
companies. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971.) 
Anderson Bank ($14.8 million of deposits) is the fourth largest 
o f five banks located in Anderson banking market, approximated by all 
o f Anderson County and portions of Knox and Campbell counties, and con-
sols approximately 15 per cent of the total deposits therein. Farmers 
Sank ($12.2 million of deposits) is the third largest of ten banks 
competing in the Athens banking market, approximated by all of Mcllinn 
County and portions of Meigs, Monroe, and Polk counties, and controls 
about 13 per cent of the deposits in that banking market. It appears 
that Anderson Bank and Farmers Bank do not now compete with each other, 
does it appear likely that they would compete in the future primarily 
to the distances separating their offices (at least 60 miles) and 
t h e presence of banks in the intervening areas. Approval of Applicant's 
Proposal would not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant 
a r ea. The Board concludes that considerations relating to competition 
consistent with, but lend no weight toward, approval of the applications. 

2257 
-2-
In reviewing the financial resources of Applicant, as is 
required by the Bank Holding Company Act, the Board finds that the 
financial resources of Applicant are not up to Board standards for a 
bank holding company. Upon acquisition of the shares in the two banks 
from the partnership in August 1971, Applicant assumed a debt of $1.6 
million which had been incurred by the partnership when it made its 
original stock purchases in the two banks. As of September 1971, Appli-
cant's balance sheet disclosed shareholders' equity of only $5,000, 
compared to liabilities of $1.6 million. 
On previous occasions, the Board has expressed its concern 
about the use of debt by a holding company to finance the purchase of 
bank stock. The presence of significant debt limits a holding company's 
ability to assist its subsidiary banks with capital if such a need arises. 
Furthermore, a heavy debt servicing obligation may result in Applicant 
being unable to service its debt without unduly straining the bank's 
earnings or undertaking a program of substantial management fees, practices 
wbich would impair the capital growth of the banks involved and operate 
to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the banks. In the present 
instance, the Board considers that the level of debt in the holding company 
is so disapportionate to the equity interests of the shareholders that 
the public interest requires denial of Applicant's proposal. 
It appears that the major banking needs of each of the areas 
served by Applicant's subsidiaries are being met by existing institutions 
no significant public benefits would result from approval of the 

2258 
-4-
aPPlications. Rather, the ability of each of Applicant's subsidiaries 
to continue to improve or expand the services offered could be hampered 
because of a need by Applicant to draw on the financial resources of its 
subsidiaries in order to retire Applicant's debt. Considerations relating 
to convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend no weight 
toward approval of the applications. 
On the basis of facts of record, the Board concludes that the 
high level of debt carried and the state of the financial resources of 
Applicant are adverse factors bearing on the financial condition and 
Prospects of Applicant and the banks involved. These adverse findings 
a*e not outweighed by any procompetitive factors nor by considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Accordingly, approval of the applications is not in the public interest 
and the applications should be denied. 
Avigust 29, 1972. 
r 
i 

2259 
Item No. 3 
8/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BEZANSON INVESTMENTS, INC. 
MORAMERICA FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Bezanson Investments, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and its subsidiary, 
^or America Financial Corporation, Cedar Rapids, Iowa, each of which is 
a registered bank holding company, have applied for the Board's 
approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), to acquire 76 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
First Trust and Savings Bank, Wheatland, Iowa. 
Notice of receipt of the applications, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and all those received have been considered. The Board has 
considered the applications in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, each of the applications is denied for 
ttle reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. 
By order of the Board of Governors,—^ effective August 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
itchell, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not votingt-Chairman 
Urns and Governor Daane* 

2 2 6 G 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING DENIAL OF APPLICATIONS BY 
BEZANSON INVESTMENTS, INC. 
CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA 
MORAMERICA FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
CEDAR RAPIDS, IOWA 
FOR ACQUISITION OF BANK 
Nature of transaction. Bezanson Investments, Inc., Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa, ("Bezanson") and its subsidiary, IIorAmerica Financial 
Corporation, Cedar Rapids, Iowa ("IIorAmerica"), both of which are 
Registered bank holding companies, have applied for the Board's 
approval, • under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 
51842(a)(3)), of the acquisition of 76 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First Trust and Savings Bank, Wheatland, Iowa ("Bank"). 
The shares of Bank are proposed to be acquired directly by MorAmerica, 
and Bezanson thus would indirectly acquire such shares. 
-Statutory considerations. Applicants presently control Jackson 
State Bank and Trust Company, Maquoketa, Iowa, ("Jackson Bank") with 
deposits of $27.8 million, which accounts for 0.4 per cent of total 
commercial bank deposits in Iowa. 
Bank (with deposits of $8.6 million) is the second largest of 
Seven banks in the Wheatland banking market, which is approximated 
bV southwestern Clinton County and northeastern Cedar County. Bank 
has an office in the Maquoketa banking market (approximated by 
southwestern Jackson County and northwestern Clinton County) and is 
the third largest of five banks competing there. Jackson Bank is 
the dominant bank in the Maquoketa market, controlling 53.2 per cent 
°f commercial bank deposits in that area. Consummation of the proposed 

2261 
-2-
transaction would increase Applicants' share of the Maquoketa market to 
56.1 per cent. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, except that 
^rket shares were computed as of June 30, 1970.) Although some existing 
competition between Bank and Applicants' subsidiary bank may have been 
eliminated in early 1971 by the acquisition of Bank by Mr. Peter F. Bezanson, 
President and principal shareholder of Applicants, consummation of the 
Proposal would formalize existing arrangements and make it less likely that 
competition between Bank and Jackson Bank would be resumed. Accordingly, 
it appears that consummation of the proposal would have an adverse effect 
competition in the Maquoketa banking market. 
Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served are consistent with, but do not provide 
significant support for, approval of the application. Although com-
petitive considerations and convenience and needs considerations are not 
Such as to bar approval, the Board's inquiry does not end here. As the Board 
stated before, "[t]he Board believes that a holding company should be 
a source of financial and managerial strength for the banks in its system, 
rather than vice versa, and that every proposed acquisition should be 
closely examined..." in this regard. (Application of First Southwest 
incorporation, Inc., Waco, Texas, 1972 F. R. Bulletin 302,) 
The record shows that Bezanson operates a general insurance agency; and 
America has substantial interests in ownership and operation of nursing 
convalescent care centers, a new and used car dealership, real estate 
development, and various servicing companies, among other activities. 
As of September 30, 1971, IlorAmerica had a consolidated debt to 

2 2 6 2 
-2-
equity ratio of 376.8 per cent. By March 31, 1972, MorAmerica's consolidated 
debt to equity ratio had increased to 388.9 per cent. 
Data with respect to MorAmerica's consolidated net income for the past 5 
years indicates that earnings do not average amounts sufficient to amortize 
its consolidated debt in a reasonable period of time. Consolidated statements 
of changes in financial position of MorAmerica for 1970 and 1971 show that 
MorAmerica has been retiring its debt securities as they become due from the 
Proceeds of new debt issues, and debt repayment schedules suggest that 
MorAmerica will likely refinance a significant portion of its debt in the 
future. Apparently, MorAmerica has no immediate plans to sell additional 
capital stock to strengthen its equity position, nor does it plan to reduce 
debt significantly.frou earnings or cash reserves. 
On the facts presented, the Board is unable to conclude that MorAmerica 
would be a source of strength for banks within its system. The policies of 
Applicants' management are regarded by the Board as incompatible with sound 
banking principles and with an expansion of banking activities. Bank's capital 
seems adequate, and its prospects appear favorable. However, considerations 
related to the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicants are not consistent with approval. 
Conciuslon. On the basis of the record and particularly in the light of the 
considerations discussed above, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transactions would not be in the public interest and should not be approved. 
August 29, 1972 

2263 
Item No. 4 
8/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BENEFICIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities 
of Bank Holding Company 
Beneficial Corporation, Wilmington, Delaware, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1841), by virtue of ownership of 73.3 per cent of the voting 
shares of Peoples Bank and Trust Company, Wilmington, Delaware ("Bank"), 
has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to § 4(d) of the Act, 
for an exemption from the prohibitions of § 4 (relating to nonbanking 
activities and acquisitions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 14, 1972 (37 Federal Register 11804). Time 
filing comments and views has expired. No request for a hearing has 
keen received. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such action 
*ould not be substantially at variance with the purposes of the Act and 
subject to such conditions as the Board considers necessary to protect 
fche public interest, the Board may grant an exemption from the pro-
visions of § 4 of the Act to certain one-bank holding companies in order 
(1) to avoid disrupting business relationships that have existed over 
a long period of years without adversely affecting the banks or corn-
unities involved, or (2) to avoid forced sales of small locally owned 
hanks to purchasers not similarly representative of community interests 

-2-
2 2 6 4 
°r (3) to allow retention of banks that are so small in relation to the 
holding company's total interests and so small in relation to the 
hanking market to be served as to minimize the likelihood that the 
hank's powers to grant or deny credit may be influenced by a desire to 
further the holding company's other interests. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in the light of the factors set forth in § 4(d) of the Act and 
finds that: 
Beneficial Corporation is a diversified holding company that 
operates the sixth largest consumer finance company in the country, and 
owns Speigel, Inc., Western Auto Supply Company, and over 60 other 
firms. The record shows that, in the early 1920's, Beneficial organized 
Bank (under another name), but Bank did not open for business until 
December 1952. As of December 20, 1971, Beneficial owned 73.3 per cent 
°f Bank's outstanding voting shares; and the remaining shares are owned 
by present or former directors, officers, or employees of Beneficial 
° r of its subsidiaries (25.2 per cent), and by individuals residing in 
the Wilmington area. Furthermore, it appears that, as of February 29, 
l9?2, approximately one-third of Bank's demand deposits represent 
deposits on behalf of Beneficial or its subsidiaries, or their direc-
t s , officers, or employees; and 17.6 per cent of Bank's total loans 
represent loans to directors, officers, or employees of Beneficial or 
i t s subsidiaries. The record contains nothing to suggest that permitting 
Bank's affiliation with Applicant to continue indefinitely will adversely 
affect either the Bank or the community of Wilmington. 

-2-
2 2 6 5 
Bank's total assets ($20.4 million) at year-end 1971 were about 
0.7 per cent of the total assets of Applicant and all of its subsidiaries 
($2.8 billion). Applicant indicates that neither Beneficial nor any 
its subsidiaries has borrowed from Bank. During 1971, Beneficial 
had short-term borrowings of $275.7 million and long-term borrowings 
$995 million. In contrast, Bank's total of loans outstanding as 
February 29, 1972, amounted to $5.3 million, with a statutorily 
imposed lending limit of $200,000 to any one affiliate of Bank and 
$400,000 in aggregate to all such affiliates. The record contains 
n°thing to suggest that Beneficial has misused Bank's services for the 
benefit of Applicant's other interests and, in view of the size dis-
parity between Bank and Applicant, and the small size of Bank in 
relation to the surrounding banking market and to the credit needs of 
Beneficial, future misuse of Bank by Beneficial seems unlikely. 
Bank ($16.3 million in deposits) operates in the Wilmington 
banking market where it is the fifth largest of eight banks in the 
market and controls about 1.2 per cent of total deposits in the market. 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect bank hold-
i n8 company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
J u ly 7, 1972.) Each of the four larger banks in the market has deposits in 
GXce o s of $245 million. There ore at least four other eubsidicries of large 
c°nsumer finance companies and seven other commercial banks in the 
satne market. It does not appear that there would be any adverse com-
petitive effects from permitting Beneficial to continue its ownership 
o f Bank. 

2 2 6 8 
-2-
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
fche record, the Board concludes that the facts of record do not warrant 
disrupting a business relationship that has existed over a long period 
o f years without adversely affecting the banks of the community 
involved; and that Bank is so small in relation to the total interests 
°f Beneficial and so small in relation to the banking market served by 
Ba"k as to minimize the likelihood that Bank's powers to grant or deny 
Credit may be influenced by a desire to further Beneficial's other 
interests. Accordingly, an exemption pursuant to § 4(d) of the Act is 
hereby granted; provided, however, that this determination is subject 
tn 
revocation if the facts upon which it is based change in any 
material respect. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective August 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ 
M- 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
' M l , Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not 
*-ng: Chairman Burns. 

2267 
Item No. 5 
8/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
COMMUNITY BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Community Banks of Florida, Inc., Seminole, Florida, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding 
company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Bank of Seminole, Seminole (P. 0. Largo) ("Seminole Bank"); First 
Commercial Bank, St. Petersburg ("Commercial Bank"); First Community 
Bank, Largo ("Largo Bank"); First Bank of West Pasco, Pasco County 
("Pasco Bank"), and Northside Community Bank, St. Petersburg ("Northside 
fiank"), all located in Florida. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant was formed for the purpose of acquiring the five 
Proposed subsidiary banks, all of which were organized by the same in-
dividuals and have functioned as a group since their establishment. Upon 
^ e acquisition of Seminole Bank (deposits of $42.6 million); Commercial 
Bank (deposits of $11.7 million); Largo Bank (deposits of $5.9 million); 
at*d the Pasco and Northside Banks which were recently opened, Applicant 
Would control aggregate deposits of $60.2 million among commercial banks 

2268 
-2-
in Florida and would rank as the State's twenty-sixth largest banking 
organization, with .37 per cent of total State deposits. The proposal 
would represent no significant increase in the concentration of banking 
resources in the local markets or on a Statewide basis. 
Seminole, Commercial, Largo, and Northside Banks are located 
in Pinellas County in the South Pinellas Banking Market where the four 
banks control 6,14 per cent of total deposits as the sixth largest of 
the 15 banking organizations represented in the market. Six multi-bank 
holding companies hold 49.62 per cent of deposits in this market. The 
fifth proposed acquisition, Pasco Bank, is located in Pasco County, 
some 20 miles to the north. It was opened for business in late January 
of this year and ranks as the smallest bank in the county. It appears 
that the change in corporate structure for the group represented by this 
application would have no adverse effects on any of the competing banks 
in the relevant market areas. 
The Seminole and Largo Banks are located approximately three 
miles apart, but their service areas do not overlap, and there is no 
significant present competition between them. The remaining three banks 
are located from 6 to 26 miles apart. There is no meaningful intergroup 
competition that would be eliminated between any of the subject banks by 
the proposed formation. All five banks have been closely affiliated since 
their inception. Senior management of each bank is vested in the same 
individuals and banking services are interchanged. It appears that 

2269 
-3-
this dependence within the group is permanently established, and 
there exists little likelihood for disaffiliation. Competitive con-
siderations are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although Applicant was recently organized and has no operating 
history, its financial structure and proposed management are deemed 
to be generally satisfactory. The subject banks have capable manage-
ments and their financial conditions are deemed satisfactory except 
for needed improvement in the capital account of Seminole Bank which 
Applicant has agreed to provide. Banking factors are consistent with 
approval of the application, and prospects for Applicant and the group 
of banks appear favorable. The primary banking needs of both market 
areas are served by existing financial institutions; however, it 
appears that efficiencies of operation would result from the corporate 
structure, and the public would derive benefits from trust services 
proposed to be offered at each bank. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
with and lend some support toward approval of the application. It 
Is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

2270 
-4-
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
J Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Uaane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns. 

2271 
B O A R D CDF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
o V n c w ' . . 
D F T H E 
8/29/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
: 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
Li. 
C . 
205f«1 
W
v
^ 
* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
O C A R O 
August 30, 1972 
Mr. J, R. Knlevel 
Executive Vice President 
Farmers & Merchants National Bank 
West Point, Nebraska 
68788 
Dear Mr. Knievel: 
Your letter dated June 8 } 1972, to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation regarding payment of a time deposit: prior to maturity for the 
purpose of settling an estate was forwarded to the Board on August 4, 1972, 
for reply since the applicable rules on this subject governing members of 
the Federal Reserve System are contained in section 217.4 of the Board's 
Regulation Q. a copy of which is enclosed. 
It io understood that an attorney for the estate of a former 
customer of your bank has asked that a time deposit evidenced by a certi-
ficate of deposit maturing on May 6, 19/4, held in the name of the deceased 
be paid at the present: time in connection with the settlement of the estate, 
and that thus far you have declined to make payment on the basis of your 
understanding of regulatory interpretations regarding the applicable rules 
governing payment of time deposits prior to maturity. 
It: is further under-
stood that you are bringing this matter to the attention of your bank 
supervisory authorities, at the request of the attorney, to seek a determina-
tion whether settlement of an estate constitutes an "emergency" where the 
heirs will not: be able to get their money or the executor discharged for a 
period of two years. 
If, in the settlement of an estate, an executor or administrator 
requires the'payment of a portion or all of a time deposit prior to maturity 
in order to pay claims against the estate and meet expenses of administration 
which could not be provided for otherwise except through the conversion at a 
sacrifice of other assets into cash, the Board is of the opinion that the 
circumstances woaid warrant paywent "in an emergency where it is^necessary 
to prevent great harrish:!p" within the meaning of section 217.4 (d, or 
Regulation 0. If, however, an estate possesses sufficient: cash or other 
assets which are readily convertible into cash, without sacrifice, tc^satisfy 
its needs during the proocss of administration arid prior to the maturity ot 
& tiv.e dopesi t, the Board does not believe that the circumstances would vrarra 
payment prior to maturity, The particular circumstances of each case should 
be examined in the light of these guidelines. 

Mr. J, R. Knievel 
- 2 -
If you are satisfied that the attorney involved in the case is 
able to demonstrate the existence of an emergency as interpreted above, the 
bank may pay the time deposit prior to maturity provided the other require-
ments of section 217.4(d) of Regulation Q are met. It shoula be noted, 
however that where a depositor demonstrates the existence of an emergency, 
a member bank may, but is not required to, permit: a withdrawal from the 
time deposit prior to maturity. 
In the event a time deposit is not paid prior to maturity a 
bank may wish to consider making a loan secured by the time deposit (a 
possibility that: apparently you have already mentioned to the attorney); 
under the provisions of section 217.4(e) of Regulation Q, such a loan 
must bear a rate of interest at least 2 per cent per annum in excess of 
the rate of interest on the time deposit. Another possibility, which 
might facilitate administration of an estate, is to change the name oi 
the payee on the certificate of deposit to the name of the appropriate 
heir. 'The Board's position is that, in the circumstances, such change 
would not constitute a "payment" as long as no funds on deposit evidenced 
by the certificate are paid prior to the maturity of the deposit; and, 
if a nrw certificate is issued for the purpose of making the name enanget 
it o 'Mate of deposit" must be the same as that of the original certi-
ficate rather than the date on which the change of name is effected. 
Any further questions you may have on this subject should be 
directed to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
finclosure 
c.c: Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 

2273 
Item No. 7 
8/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WESTERN BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Retention of Bank and 
Continuation of the Activities of a General Insurance Agency 
Western Bancshares, Inc., Stockton, Kansas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has ap-
plied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) to retain 89.5 per cent of the voting shares of Rooks 
County State Bank, Woodston, Kansas ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's 
approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to continue to engage in 
certain permissible insurance agency activities through the reten-
tion of Woodston Agency, Woodston, Kansas ("Agency"). 
Notice of receipt of these applications was published in 
the Federal Register on February 16, 1972 (37 Federal Register 3474), 
and the time for filing comments and views has expired. The Board 
has considered the applications and all comments received in light 
the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act, and the considera-
tions specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Bank ($1.2 million in deposits, as of December 31, 1971) is 
the only bank in Woodston, a community of 332 persons in central 
Kansas. Agency conducts a general insurance business from the 
Premises of Bank. Approval of the proposal would have no effect 
uPon either existing or potential competition. 

2274 
-2-
On January 8, 1971, Applicant acquired Agency and a majority 
of the shares of Bank without the prior approval of the Board. On 
June 22, 1971, the Board, in order to avoid the imposition of un-
necessary hardships, issued an Order which provided that any company 
which acquired a bank between December 31, 1970, and that date, with-
out securing prior Board approval because the company lacked knowledge 
of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970, might file an 
application to retain the Bank and, thus, cure its violation of the 
Act. In this connection, however, the Board provided that the stan-
dards which were to be applied to such applications to retain would 
be the same as those normally applied to applications for prior 
approval. Applicant apparently acted without knowledge of the Act 
and the application has been considered on that basis. 
A principal of Applicant purchased certain of Bank's 
shares in late December 1970 and transferred them to Applicant on 
January 8, 1971. Between then and early March 1971, Applicant pur-
chased the remainder of its present interest in Bank. A majority 
interest in Bank was purchased for about $522 a share, shares of 
certain employees of the Bank were purchased for $400 a share, 
and the shares of unrelated minority shareholders were purchased 
for $160 a share. 
Applicant has stated that the premium paid to the principal 
shareholder reflects a payment for the related insurance agency. Such 
a premium would represent a payment for Agency of over 37 times the 
;>• 
i ? 

2275 
-2-
net income of Agency for 1971 and the Board concludes that Applicant 
has not justified the substantial disparity in prices paid for the 
shares. In its consideration of the public interest aspects of this 
application the Board finds, as it previously has in similar cases, 
that the failure to make an equivalent offer to all shareholders of 
Bank is an adverse circumstance weighing against approval of the 
application. 
(E.g. 1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 415 and 688) 
An examination of considerations relating to the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of Bank and the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served indicates that 
these considerations do not provide sufficient weight toward approval 
to outweigh the adverse circumstance of the disparate offers to 
shareholders. 
The Board is aware that since the shares have already been 
Purchased, denial of the application will not necessarily remedy the 
treatment of the minority shareholders. However, this results not 
from the Board's action but from Applicant's failure to obtain prior 
Board approval for its acquisition. Approval of Applicant's pro-
posal would represent Board sanction of the inequitable treatment 
accorded to the minority and the public interest would not be 
served by such action. 
On the basis of the record, the Board finds that approval 
the § 3 application would not be in the public interest and it 

-4-
1 / 
is accordingly denied.— 
As provided in the Board's Order of June 22, 
1971, Applicant shall take appropriate action to forthwith divest the 
interest unlawfully held. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective August 31, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Denial of Applicant's 3(a)(1) application requires denial of the 
attendant 4(c)(8) proposal. 
£' Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governors 
Mitchell and Daane. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 8 
8/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ZIONS UTAH BANCORFORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Zions Utah Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of Zions National Bank of Ogden, Ogden, 
Utah, a proposed new bank ("Bank"), 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application, the 
^commendation of the Comptroller of the Currency that the applica-
t:I-0n should be approved, and all other comments received in light of 
the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in Utah, 
c°ntrols one bank which has total deposits of approximately $339.2 
1/ 
Million, 
representing 16,1 per cent of the total deposits in 
Commercial banks in the State. Since Bank is a proposed new bank, 
n° existing competition would be eliminated nor would concentration 
b e increased in any relevant area. 
T/"—£ 
Deposit data are as of December 31, 1971 and market data are as 
June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
cquisitions through June 30, 1972. 

2278 
-2-
Applicant's acquisition of Bank represents its initial 
commercial banking entry into the Ogden banking market. Applicant's 
subsidiary bank, whose nearest office is located 20 miles from Bank, 
is prohibited by State law from branching into the Ogden banking 
market. Applicant's acquisition of Bank would likely have a pro-
competitive effect by introducing a new competitor into the Ogden 
market, where three of the six banks control over 90 per cent of 
total market deposits. Applicant's entry into this market should 
stimulate competition without having adverse effects on any competing 
bank. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval. 
Applicant has recently augmented the capital position of its lead bank 
by contributing a portion of the proceeds from a sale of Applicant's 
stock. Applicant has indicated that this contribution is a permanent 
investment. Since Bank will be able to draw upon Applicant's finan-
cial and managerial resources, its prospects seem favorable and the 
inking factors are consistent with approval. Applicant proposes to 
offer extended banking hours and to offer additional services, such 
a s guaranteed student loans at Bank. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend weight 
to^ard approval since Bank will become an additional source of full 
banking services in a community that has a high ratio of population 

2273 
-2-
t 0 banking offices. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
Applicant is engaged, either directly or through subsidiaries, 
in several nonbanking businesses. The approval herein neither provides 
authority to Applicant to continue in the nonbank activities nor to 
detain nonbank shares nor requires the Applicant to modify or terminate 
said activities or holdings. However, consummation of the proposal 
herein is subject to the continuing authority of the Board to require 
Modification or termination of such activities or holdings (x^ithin a 
Period no shorter than two years), if the Board determines that the 
c°ntinued combination of banking and nonbanking interests is likely 
to have an adverse effect on the public interest. 
The provision of any credit, property or services by the 
holding company or any affiliate thereof shall not be subject to any 
condition which, if imposed by a bank, would constitute an unlawful 
tie-in arrangement under § 106 of the Bank Holding Company Amendments 
o f 1970. The nonbanking activities of Applicant shall not be altered 
in any significant respect from those engaged in at the time of the 
filing of the application herein nor shall they be provided at any 
^cation other than as described in said application, except upon 
ConiPliance with the procedures of § 225.4(b)(1) of Regulation Y; and 
n° merger, or consolidation, or acquisition of assets other than in 
tllG regular course of business, to which Applicant or any affiliate 
hereof is a party shall be consummated without prior Board approval. 

2230 
-2-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b; later than three months after that date, and (c) Zions 
National Bank of Ogden, Ogden, Utah, shall be opened for business not 
later than six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of 
the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
& 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Sheehan, and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governor Brimmer, 
the basis of principles previously discussed in his Dissenting Statement 
connection with the Board's Order approving the application of First 
ational City Corporation to acquire the successor by merger to The National 
^change Bank of Castleton-on-Hudson (37 Federal Register 14259). Absent 
nci not voting: Chairman Burns. 

2281 
c-ov^ •. 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R b 
I t e m 
No. 
'
j
S
o
r 
rue 
8/29/72 
fe-vH^ 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
t 
W A S H I N G T O N , n 
C. 
S O E S I 
iV< < [f[ [|YW • 
O F F I C E O F T H E V i C E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 31, 1972 
The Honorable Peter G. Peterson 
Secretary of Commerce and 
Chairman, National Commission on 
Productivity 
Department of Commerce 
Washington,, D.C. 20230 
Dear Mr. Peterson: 
In response to the joint memorandum from yourself and 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget dated 
August 16, 1972, a Board staff member attended Mr. Stewart's 
briefing on the'Commission's efforts to determine the extent 
and type of Federal, programs being conducted to improve ^ 
productivity of the economy. After reviewing Mr. Stewart s 
memorandum dated August 23, 1972 which was provided at tne 
briefing, we have concluded that the Board has no programs tnat 
directly promote productivity growth in the various sectors of 
the economy. 
We strongly support your endeavors to foster and promote 
increased productivity throughout the economy. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J.L. Robertson 
j. L. Robertson 

2oc < r> 
sjV-.vV 
; n\wk 
'7'Mi Rfc^V 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
a f T h r. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . D. C. 
3 0 5 5 I 
I t e m No. 
10 
8 / 2 9 / 7 2 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 31, 1972 
' he Honorable Caspar Weinberger 
Director 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D.C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Weinberger: 
In your memorandum dated August 7, 1972, you requested 
that all departments and agencies subject to the reporting 
requirements of 0MB Circular No. A-44 participate in an expanded 
program to develop Federal productivity indices for the period 
beginning with fiscal year 1967 and ending with fiscal year 1972. 
Although the Federal Reserve is not in the category of 
agencies referred to, we do want you to know that we strongly 
support the. need to increase productivity throughout the economy. 
Of course, we are working hard to achieve such improvements for 
our activities within the Federal Reserve System. In this 
connection it would be helpful to us if we could send observers 
t o some or all of your briefings in order that we could receive 
the benefits thereof. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J.L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

2283 
B O A R D 
G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 11 
8/29/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 3 1 
/ i n o R t s a 
n r n u i A U 
c o r h e s p o n d k n e e 
TO THE BOARU 
A u g u s t 29, 1.972 
Mr. A. B. Merritt 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Merritt: 
This refers to your letter of August 10, 1972, enclosing 
four (4) copies of the Supplemental Retirement Allowance Agreement 
dated August 8, 1972, between the Federal. Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco and Mr. John J. Balles. 
Trio Board of Governors has approved the agreement as 
submitted and. a* Secretary of the Board, I have affixed my signa-
ture in the appropriate place on all copies. One copy of the 
agreement has been retained for the Board's files: the or.her three 
copies are returned herewith. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT ALLOWANCE AGREEMENT 
2284 
For and in consideration of the mutual promises of each party hereto 
this Agreement is entered into between Dr. John J. Balles and the FEDERAL 
RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO. 
Subject to all of the applicable provisions of law, Dr. John J. 
Balles agrees to serve as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK as 
long as such service shall be mutually agreeable to the parties hereto. 
For and on account of such service, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall 
pay said Dr. John J. Balles as follows: 
(1) Sr.id FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to said Dr. John J. 
Balles a salary at the rate of $70,000 per annum during 
the period ending December 3), 1972, and thereafter 
during his service as an officer of said FEDERAL 
RESERVE BANK and. prior to his retirement his salary 
shall be determined from time to time in accordance 
with applicable provisions of law; 
(2) If, having attained the age of 65, said Dr. John J. 
Balles shall retire with not less than 10 years of 
service creditable under the Retirement Plan for 
Employees of the Federal Reserve System, and if he is 
President of said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK at the time of 
his retirement, said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall pay to 
said Dr. John !. Balles after such retirement and 
'.luring the remainder of his lifetime an amount per 
annum which, together with his normal retirement 

2285 
- I -
pension under the Retirement Plan for Employees of the 
Federal Reserve System (before conversion under a 
survivorship or other option), will aggregate a sum 
equal to 40 per cent of his final average salary (as 
defined in the then current provisions of said Retirement 
Plan), less 50 per cent of his primary Federal. Old Age 
Insurance Benefits--such reduction to be prorated if he 
has less than 30 years of creditable service; and 
(3) If, without having attained the age of 65, said Dr, John 
J. Balies shall retire with not less than 30 years of 
service creditable under the Retirement Plan for Employees 
of the Federal Reserve System and if he is President of 
said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK at the time of his retirement, 
the aggregate sum equal to 40 per cent of his final 
average salary referred to in the preceding paragraph (2) 
shall be reduced by the application of the then current 
table of pension reduction factors applicable to members 
of said Plan other than employees of the Board of 
Governors > and the portion of the aggregate that is 
payable by said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK shall be the 
difference, between the dollar amount represented bv 
such lesser percentage of salary and the early retirement 
pension payable at the attained age by said Retirement Plan. 
This Agreement does not obligate the said Dr. John J. Balles to 
remain as an officer of the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK, and does not 
constitute ar. Agreement by the said .FEDERAL RESERVE BANK or. the .Board 

-2-
of Covernors of the Federal Reserve System that he will continue in such 
capacity; it does not obligate the said FEDERAL RESERVE BANK to appoint, 
reappoint, or continue him as an officer, nor does it obligate the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System to approve his appointment or 
reappointment or his compensation. 
Witness our bands and seals this 
L l A 
rla? 
o
f
—
1
9
7
2
> 
executing this agreement in quadruplicate originals. 
(L, 
9-. /U(c./ 
j 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO 
y / . 
A J 
'O 
At to n t • 
B y fsS'&'f 
t^S 
Chairman of the Beard of Directors 
, ^^yf^J^L..... 
Secre tary ~ ~ J ? % 
^ 
/ 
The above Agreement has been approved by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System and in witness thereof, the seal of the said 
Board is attached and its Secretary has affixed his signature. Dated at 
Wellington, I>. C., this 
29th 
day of _Au£ust 
1972. 
