MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 1, 1970 

EST 
1070 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 1, 19 70. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Miss Stockwell, Senior Economist, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland summarized developments in the commercial paper 
'.•-^•v j.:,. 
A 
• — 
. 
: e n . - 
U p -
market yesterday, the substance of his report being that in general 
the situation was a little better than might have been anticipated. 

i
r
m 
7/1/70 
-2-
There appeared to have been no objections from banks to takedowns 
against outstanding lines of credit, and progress appeared to have 
been made in providing additional financing to two companies known 
to be in some difficulty. 
Mr. Holland also said that there had been another telephone 
conference call with Reserve Bank discount officers yesterday. 
Only 
in New York and Philadelphia was any sense of real pressure on bank 
lines of credit evident. Reports by Reserve Banks on calls they had 
made to banks in their Districts had turned up one more District 
(Boston) where one or two bankers were beginning to worry about the 
creditworthiness of borrowers having outstanding lines of credit. 
There was some feeling that the situation would gradually erode, but 
no banks were discovered that were not prepared to let their lines 
of credit be taken down. 
Mr. Partee reported that one finance company had examined 
paper that it had thought might be pledged against a loan under the 
third paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, but it had 
found that restrictive covenants were involved and had abandoned any 
idea of seeking such a loan. The same thing would probably be true 
in the case of almost every major finance company. 
There followed a discussion of developments in the Euro-dollar 
market, and suggestions were made as to additional information that 
might be developed by the staff in this regard. There was also some 

1372 
7/1/70 
-3-
discussion of where money might be going as the result of commercial 
paper being paid off, but the situation was not entirely clear. 
Reference then was made to a paper that had been prepared by 
Miss Stockwell under date of June 30, 1970, reviewing questions that 
might need to be faced in developing a program of direct loans under 
paragraph three of section 13 to businesses unable to obtain the 
necessary bank credit to tide them over a real but temporary threat 
of bankruptcy. 
Governor Maisel said the paper indicated to him the need for 
preparation of a comprehensive document with regard to conduit loans. 
He envisaged that loans under the third paragraph of section 13 would 
be used only sparingly, if at all, and then probably only after there 
had been one or two bankruptcies, at which time some public statement 
might be considered. 
In other words, this should all be part of a 
contingency plan. 
Governor Daane agreed generally but raised the question whether 
it would be advisable to let one or two major companies go under before 
putting such a plan into effect, as opposed to moving in an effort to 
forestall such a development. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he would have reservations 
about the idea of bailing out companies of doubtful credit rating. 
He felt that Penn Central was a good illustration. 

1372 
7/1/70 
-4-
There ensued some discussion of the question of determining 
creditworthiness, including the effect of the confidence factor. 
Comments also were made on the question of the desirability of issu-
ing a public statement at some stage. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the Board consider 
meeting as frequently as necessary to keep in touch with the situation 
and receive from the staff whatever information became available. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that, although the Federal 
Reserve should not get involved in saving individual companies, it 
was important not to let the economy get into a condition where every-
one became so conservative that companies that were operationally 
sound would go under. 
It appeared to him that conduit lending offered 
the best promise for a solution, but if the time came that banking 
institutions no longer wanted to engage in conduit lending, the Federal 
Reserve should be prepared if necessary to extend credit under para-
graph three of section 13. 
Governor Mitchell expressed sympathy with the idea of conduit 
lending, and other Board members agreed that the questions involved 
in the making of such loans should be explored further. 
Accordingly, the Vice Chairman requested the staff to work out 
proposed procedures for conduit loans so that the System could be in a 
position to move fast if necessary. At that time, consideration also 
could be given to whether some statement should be issued. 

1974 
7/1/70 
-5-
It was also understood that the staff would continue to 
develop contingency plans for the making of loans under the third 
paragraph of section 13, against the possibility that it was eventu-
ally considered necessary to make such loans. 
It was suggested that a few Federal Reserve Bank officers 
with particular expertise be asked to work with the Board's staff 
in the development of the contingency plans, and those mentioned 
included Mr. Bilby, a retired officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, Mr. Merritt of the San Francisco Bank, and Mr. Melnicoff 
of the Philadelphia Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
