Minutes for February 8, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 11 
Revision of Regulation Y , Bank Holding 
Companies. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. 
If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 8, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart, Mrs. Heller, and Mr. Doyle of the 
Legal Division 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
1 
interposing no objection to the 1968 foreign 
travel program approved by the Bank's Board of 
Directors. 

2/8/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
2 
approving the payment of salary to Albert Spencer, 
Jr., as Assistant Vice President at the rate fixed 
by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget regarding 
3 
enrolled bill H.R. 13094, amending the Commodity 
Exchange Act. 
In connection with Item No. 1, Chairman Martin commented that 
he had discussed the New York Bank's proposed foreign travel program 
with President Hayes, who had pointed out that the program contem-
plated a substantial curtailment from recent years. The Chairman said 
he had suggested to Mr. Hayes that it would be desirable for the Bank 
to eliminate this year all foreign travel that was not essential. 
With 
the understanding that the Bank would have that in mind, he (Chairman 
Martin) saw no reason why the Board should interpose objection to the 
program. 
Governor Mitchell referred to a few travel items in the program 
that he thought might be eliminated on further study, and it was under-
stood that he would talk with President Hayes concerning them. 
With respect to Item No. 3, the Board decided against including 
in the letter to the Bureau of the Budget a notation that the enrolled 
bill did not provide authority for the Secretary of Agriculture to set 
margin requirements for trading in commodities. 
In a letter to the 
Budget Bureau of June 29, 1967, commenting on a draft of the bill, the 
Board had expressed the view that the powers available for regulating 

2/8/68 
-3-
commodity trading should include at least discretionary authority to 
prescribe minimum margin requirements. A reason suggested for not 
repeating that view was that the Board did not want to recommend that 
the President withhold approval of the enrolled bill; also, that the 
matter of prescribing minimum margin requirements, a complex matter, 
was one that the Department of Agriculture presumably could raise 
again in the future if it so desired. 
Reserve city status of National Bank of Washington (Item No. 4) 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated February 6, 1968, from 
the Legal Division regarding a question relating to the status for 
reserve requirement purposes of National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, 
Washington. 
In September 1967 the Board had held that the Bank Holding 
Company Act would permit the indirect acquisition by Western Bancorpora 
tion through the National Bank of Washington, its subsidiary, of the 
stock of a mortgage company that would solicit, process, and service 
mortgage loans on behalf of the national bank. The mortgage company 
had two offices in Seattle, a "reserve city" under the Board's Regula-
tion D, Reserves of Member Banks. The regulation provides that a 
« 
member bank shall be considered to be in a reserve city if the head 
office or any branch thereof is located in a reserve city. 
In largely similar circumstances the Board had held in 1963 
and 1964 that offices of such a subsidiary mortgage company consti-
tuted branches of Mercantile Trust Company, St. Louis, Missouri. 

2/8/68 
-4-
(Mercantile Trust Company then converted to a national charter and the 
then Comptroller of the Currency, Mr. Saxon, held that the offices were 
not branches.) 
It might be argued that the Board's Mercantile Trust 
ruling was not necessarily controlling in determining whether the 
Seattle offices of National Bank of Washington's subsidiary mortgage 
company were branches under Regulation D; the purposes underlying 
reserve requirements were different from those requiring supervisory 
approval for the establishment of branches and prohibiting out-of-State 
branches. Nevertheless, the Legal Division did not believe there was 
any persuasive reason in this case for departing from the rationale of 
the Mercantile Trust ruling, especially since National Bank of Wash-
ington would be entitled to apply to the Board for permission to main-
tain reserves at the lower levels set for banks not in reserve cities. 
In fact, the Division considered this course preferable, for procedural 
reasons. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco that would hold that the Seattle offices 
of National Bank of Washington were branches but would request that the 
national bank's attention be called to the provisions of Regulation D 
regarding applications for permission to maintain reduced reserves. 
After comments by Mr. Doyle, Governor Mitchell expressed the 
view that the recommended position seemed sound, although it might 
have some elements of inconsistency with certain other decisions the 

543 
2/8/68 
-5-
Board had made recently. However, until action could be obtained on 
legislative proposals that would eliminate the complexities of admin-
istering reserve requirements according to a bank's location, he 
believed it might be simpler and more appropriate to solve problems 
such as the present one by holding that the offices in question were 
not branches for purposes of establishing reserve requirements. Al-
though that position would involve some modification of the Board's 
ruling in the Mercantile Trust case, he would be disposed to take that 
course in order to avoid putting the bank to the trouble and expense 
of making a case for an application for permission to carry reduced 
reserves. 
Mr. Hexter expressed the view that departure from the Board's 
long-standing and carefully-reasoned position that offices such as 
here in question were branches would be too great a price to pay for 
the expedient of relieving the bank from applying for continuance of 
its country bank status. 
Governor Robertson suggested that both purposes might be served 
if the Board took the position that the offices were branches but at 
the same time granted permission to the bank to carry country bank 
reserves, so long as those offices did not accept deposits. 
Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell and Sherrill indicated 
that Governor Robertson's suggestion seemed an acceptable procedure, 
but Governor Brimmer noted that parties in Seattle had expressed concern 

2/8/68 
-6-
that allowing National Bank of Washington to acquire the mortgage com-
pany had the effect of permitting the bank to enter the Seattle com-
petitive scene. He was troubled that the course suggested would not 
allow an opportunity for competing banks to protest, as they might 
have if applications had been filed for the establishment of branches. 
Mr. Hexter asked if he was correct in understanding that the 
Board intended the suggested position to apply only to the present 
case, without any commitment toward a general position that any country 
bank that had non-deposit offices in a reserve city could retain its 
country bank status for reserve requirement purposes. That understand-
ing having been verified, Mr. Hexter said that the procedure Governor 
Robertson had suggested had not been considered by the Legal Division. 
Before it was implemented, he would like to study it further in terms 
of the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation D. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
suggested course would be explored by the Legal Division, and that if 
there appeared to be no legal obstacle the procedure would be followed. 
Secretary's Note: Further study by the 
Legal Division suggested that a letter 
to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Fran-
cisco in the form attached as Item No. 4 
would be preferable and, with the approval 
of Governor Robertson, that letter was 
sent. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida 
dated February 6, 1968, there had been distributed copies of policy 

543 
2/8/68 
-7-
record entries for the Federal Open Market Committee meetings of 
November 14, November 27, and December 12, 1967. All three of the 
entries were approved by the Board on January 25, 1968, and were sub-
sequently distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents. No changes had 
been made thereafter in the language of the entries. 
It was proposed to release the entry regarding the November 14 
meeting to the press on Monday afternoon, February 12, 1968, with sub-
sequent publication in the Federal Reserve Bulletin. The entry was 
submitted for final review of language prior to publication; Board 
approval was also requested for a covering press release, a draft of 
which was attached to the memorandum. 
It was planned to release the policy record entries for the 
November 27 and December 12 meetings on the usual 90-day schedule 
(February 26 and March 11, 1968, respectively) unless a request for 
them was received from a Congressional source prior to those dates, 
and, in the latter case, to release them to the press at the same time 
they were supplied to the Congress. Although no such request had been 
received at the time the memorandum was written, the entries were sub-
mitted for final review at this time to facilitate a prompt response 
if a request was received. 
The Board unanimously approved the release of the November 14 
entry to the press on Monday, February 12, 1968, and the release pro-
cedure described by the staff with respect to the entries for the 
November 27 and December 12 meetings. 

543 
2/8/68 
-8-
Salary for officer at New York Reserve Bank (Items 5 and 6). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated February 1, 1968, from 
the Division of Personnel Administration regarding a request from the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York for approval of payment of salary to 
Frank W. Schiff, Assistant Vice President, at the rate of $28,000 per 
annum effective February 11, 1968. Mr. Schiff had been on leave with-
out pay since September 1964 to serve on the staff of the President's 
Council of Economic Advisers and there had been no change in his salary 
of $19,000 per annum during the period of his leave. The Treasury 
Department had announced that, effective February 12, 1968, Mr. Schiff 
would be appointed Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury for Monetary 
Affairs. 
The memorandum brought out that under the provisions of sec-
tion 5A of the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks the effect of the proposed increase in Mr. 
Schiff's salary would be to increase substantially the pension portion 
of his retirement allowance. Under section 5A, the Reserve Bank would 
pay not only the employer's contribution to the Retirement System but 
also the employee's contribution during his period of absence for pur-
poses of public service. The total of the combined contributions by 
the Reserve Bank during the next five years attributable to the pro-
posed $9,000 increase would be about $4,100. 

543 
2/8/68 
-9-
The Division noted that in the past the Board had taken the 
position that increases for Reserve Bank officers in the year before 
retirement were normally not desirable because they might be motivated 
merely by a desire to provide higher retirement allowances. 
That 
principle might be considered applicable to Mr. Schiff's case, although 
the circumstances were not completely parallel. 
After comments by Mr. Johnson, Governor Mitchell expressed the 
view that the key question seemed to be whether or not Mr. Schiff would 
return to the employ of the Reserve Bank after his Treasury service. 
The Division's reservations appeared to rest upon an assumption that 
he would not return. However, Governor Mitchell had talked with Pres-
ident Hayes of the New York Reserve Bank, who had indicated that it was 
expected that Mr. Schiff would return. In that event, the New York 
recommendation took on a different aspect. 
Governor Brimmer said that he too was disposed to approve the 
Reserve Bank's action. 
If Mr. Schiff had remained at the Bank during 
the last several years his salary no doubt would have been increased 
periodically. The omission of increases for Mr. Schiff might have 
been attributable to the rule that no more than 40 per cent of a 
Reserve Bank's officers should be given merit salary increases in one 
year. 
It was his belief that the Bank had expected to make an appro-
priate adjustment when Mr. Schiff returned. Since the salaries of Mr. 
Schiff's colleagues had moved up during the period of Mr. Schiff's 

2/8/68 
-10-
absence, Governor Brimmer regarded the proposed increase as a correc-
tion of a situation that should not have been allowed to develop. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the Division's views would 
have been different if it were known that Mr. Schiff would return to 
the Reserve Bank. Mr. Johnson responded that the Division had not 
made such an assumption because the Reserve Bank's letter requesting 
approval did not mention it as one of the reasons for the salary 
increase. 
It was true that if Mr. Schiff did return to the Bank the 
period of his service at the Treasury Department would count in comput-
ing his retirement benefits. However, it might be noted also that the 
proposed increase was large, its purpose apparently being to bring Mr. 
Schiff's salary to the amount he would receive at the Treasury Depart-
ment. While the Bank indicated that if his service had been continuous 
he would probably have received increases totaling "several thousand 
dollars," the question was whether they would have aggregated as much 
as $9,000. 
Governor Mitchell observed that even with the proposed increase 
Mr. Schiff would have suffered some inequity as far as retirement bene-
fits were concerned because during his service with the Council the 
Reserve Bank's contributions, both its own and those on his behalf, 
were based on a salary of $19,000. 
Governor Sherrill commented that he shared Governor Brimmer's 
regret that the Reserve Bank had not moved Mr. Schiff's salary upward 

543 
2/8/68 
-11-
during his service with the Council. While the proposed solution of 
the matter presented some questions, Governor Sherrill leaned toward 
approving a salary commensurate with the salary Mr. Schiff would 
receive at the Treasury Department. 
Governor Robertson said he believed the proposed salary was 
justified and would approve it, but only if the record was amplified 
to make clear the justification. 
Governor Brimmer concurred that it would be desirable to aug-
ment the record; he suggested that it include information regarding 
salary increases given in the last several years to Reserve Bank offi-
cers who were at about the same level as Mr. Schiff at the time he 
began service with the Council. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved unani-
mously, subject to the understanding that additional information along 
the lines mentioned would be placed in the record, a letter to the New 
York Reserve Bank that would approve the proposed salary increase. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. Attached as Item No. 6 
is a copy of a memorandum subsequently placed in the files by the Board's 
Secretary. 
Revision of Regulation Y (Items 7 and 8). On January 25, 1968, 
the Board approved sending to the Federal Reserve Banks for comment a 
proposed revision of Regulation Y , Bank Holding Companies, that would 
incorporate into the regulation the substantive changes made in the law 
by the 1966 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 

2/8/68 
-12-
At today's meeting Mrs. Heller reported that although a number 
of changes had been made in the draft revision in the light of Reserve 
Bank comments, these were of a technical rather than a substantive 
nature. Not all of the suggestions received had been incorporated in 
the revision because a number of the points raised had been met in 
other ways. 
If the Board approved, it was now proposed to publish the 
revision in the Federal Register as an adopted regulation. 
The Board unanimously approved the revised Regulation Y, effec-
tive March 15, 1968. A copy of the revised regulation in the form in 
which it was sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 7. 
Attached as Item No. 8 is a notice sent to the Federal Register regard-
ing a technical conforming amendment, also approved unanimously by the 
Board, to the Board's Rules of Procedure. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized travel by Robert C. 
Holland, Secretary of the Board, to accompany Governor Robertson to 
Basle, Switzerland, for the March monthly meeting of the Bank for Inter 
national Settlements, with any brief stopover visits en route to or 
from the meeting that might prove to be desirable. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Director of the Division of International 
Finance dated February 8, 1968, recommending that Robert L. Sammons, 
Associate Director of that Division, be designated to lecture at 
the Center for Latin American Monetary Studies during the period 

rr i r-
OiO 
2/8/68 
-13-
August 5-17, 1968, and that Mr. Sammons be authorized to undertake 
the necessary travel to Mexico, it being understood that he would 
receive per diem in accordance with the Standardized Government 
Travel Regulations. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics recom-
mending an increase in the basic annual salary of A. Jane Moore, Econ-
omist in that Division, from $11,589 to $12,607, effective February 11, 
1968. 
On February 8, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Item No. 
Letter to The Clearfield Trust Company, Clear-
field, Pennsylvania, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch in 
Lawrence Township, Clearfield County. 
9 
/ 
Secretary 

w*' 
BDARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
O ^ i O 
Item No. 1 
2/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1968 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
This is in reply to your letter of February 1, 1968, 
with which you enclosed copies of the foreign travel program 
of your Bank for 1968 as approved by your board of directors. 
It is noted that in formulating the foreign travel program, 
due consideration was given to the President's balance of pay-
ments program as it affects travel abroad and to the Board's 
letter of February 2, 1967, requesting that care be taken to 
avoid official travel not consistent with the System's responsi-
bilities. 
The Board has reviewed the foreign travel program 
and interposes no objection to your proceeding on the basis of 
the plans as outlined. Should there be modifications in the 
program during the course of the year, the Board would appre-
ciate being advised. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
547 
Item No. 2 
2/8/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Karl R . Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
• '< 'hi- • •; • 
' 
. 
' • (; . 
Dear M r . Bopp: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to M r . Albert Spencer, Jr. as an Assistant Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia at the rate of $15,000 per 
annum for the period February 1 through December 31, 1968. This 
is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in 
M r . Hilkert
1
s letter of February 1, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

of COl*. • • 
• N ^ ^ a S f o * . 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
item No, 
OFTHE 
? / « / £ « 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
/ 0 / D 8 
W A S H I N G T O N 
OFFICE OFTHE CHAIRMAN 
February 8, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of February 6, 1968, 
for the views of the Board on an enrolled bill, H.R. 13094, amending 
the Commodity Exchange Act. Since the matter involved in this 
legislation is outside the area of the Board's responsibility, the 
Board has no comment on the bill. 
Since rely your s, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
1 • 
Wm. MicC. Martin, Jr. 

513 
BDARD DF GDVERNDR5 
Item No. 4 
• F THE 
2/8/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
A D O R C B B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 9, 1968. 
Mr. Eliot J . Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
In a letter dated September 5, 1967, to counsel for 
National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington ("NBW"), the Board 
concluded that section 4(c)(1)(C) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
would permit the indirect acquisition by Western Bancorporation, 
through NBW (its subsidiary), of the stock of a mortgage company 
operating two offices in Seattle. 
The Board has recently considered whether these two 
offices would be "branches" of NBW for the purposesof § 204.2(a)(3) 
of Regulation D and concluded that they should be so considered. 
However, in view of the limited functions performed at such offices, 
including the fact that they do not accept deposits, the Board also 
concluded that, upon application by NBW pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2) 
of the Regulation, permission would be granted to maintain reserves 
at the lower levels in effect for member banks not located in re-
serve cities. This conclusion would be reconsidered if the func-
tions at those offices were materially altered. No penalties will 
be assessed for failure to maintain reserves at the reserve city 
levels since acquisition of the mortgage company. 
It would be appreciated if your Bank would advise NBW 
of the contents of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD CDF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No 
5 
O
F
T
H
E
 
2/8/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 9, 1968. 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves the action 
taken by the Board of Directors of your Bank to fix the 
salary of Frank W . Schiff, Assistant Vice President, at 
the annual rate of $28,000, effective February 11, 1968. 
The Board appreciates the additional informa-
tion furnished by you and Mr. Treiber in connection with 
this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
r ~ < 
Item No. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2 / 8 / 6 8 
Office Correspondence 
Date February 9 T 1968. 
- FTT.ES 
^ J 
Subject: 
New York. Bank 
p r o p o s e d 
pP.rsnnn P1 
- Robert C . Holland 
L_| 
a c t i o n 
r e g a r d i n g 
M r . 
"Frank 
S r . M f f . 
The Board approved on February 8, 1968, the request of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York in a letter from President Hayes 
dated January 23, 1968, for certain changes in personnel status of 
Mr. Frank W . Schiff, but with the understanding that the record 
would be amplified on two points: 
(a) The mutual interest of both the New York Bank and 
Mr. Schiff in his eventual return to the staff of 
the New York Bank; and 
(b) The approximate level of compensation to which he 
might have been raised had he not been away from 
the Bank on leave since 1964. 
In furtherance of this Board interest, Governor Mitchell 
and I called President Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
on February 8. President Hayes indicated to the satisfaction of both 
Governor Mitchell and myself that the expected return of Mr. Schiff 
to the New York Bank staff had been an integral part of the discussions 
and planning 
that had proceeded between New York Bank representatives 
and Mr. Schiff. The Bank was very interested in having Mr. Schiff 
return to its employ following the conclusion of his service as 
Deputy Under Secretary of the Treasury (a post to which he is to be 
shortly appointed), and Mr. Schiff had repeatedly declared his 
interest in returning, all subject, of course, to a negotiation of 
mutually satisfactory arrangements for his title, responsibilities, 
and salary at such future time. 
Mr. Treiber, in a telephone conversation with me on 
February 9, affirmed the belief of the Bank management that Mr. Schiff
1
s 
salary would probably have been increased over the years up to a level 
in the neighborhood of $28,000 (the salary level proposed for him in 
the New York Bank letter of January 23) had he remained in the full-time 
employ of the Bank since 1964 and demonstrated performance and acquired 
experience equivalent to that stemming from his assignments while on 
leave. 
With these two points clarified, I informed Mr. Treiber 
orally that the Board had approved the New York Bank request for 
Mr. Schiff and an appropriate confirming letter would be forthcoming. 
cc: Mr. Johnson 
Kenyon 

Item No. 7 
2/8/68 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222 - BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Revision of Regulation 
1. Effective March 15, 1968, 
5§22;.l through 222.7 are revised 
read as follows: 
Sec. 
222.1 
Definitions 
222.2 
Registration 
222.3 
Acquisition of Bank Shares or Assets 
222.4 
Interests in Nonbanking Organizations 
222.5 
Hearings and Proceedings 
222.6 
Reports and Examinations 
222.7 
Copies 
Authority: 
The provisions of this Part 222 are issued under 
sec. 5(b) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1844)(referred 
to in this Part as "the Act"). 
§ 222.1 
Definitions. 
(a) Terms used in the Act. As used in this Part, the terms "bank 
holding company", "company", "bank", "subsidiary" and "Board" have the same 
leanings as those given such terms in the Act. 
(b) Federal Reserve Bank. The term "Federal Reserve Bank" as used 
in this Part with respect to action by, on behalf of, or directed to be 
taken by a bank holding company or other organization shall mean either the 
Federal Reserve Bank of the Federal Reserve district in which the opera-
tions of the bank holding company or other organization are principally 

errro 
- 2 -
conducted, as measured by total deposits held or controlled by it on the 
date on which it became, or is to become, a bank holding company, or such 
Reserve Bank as the Board may designate. 
§ 222.2 
Registration. 
(a) Registration statement. Within 180 days after becoming a bank 
holding company, such company shall register with the Board by filing a 
registration statement with the Federal Reserve Bank on forms prescribed 
hy the Board. Upon timely application on behalf of any bank holding company 
and upon a satisfactory showing as to the need therefor, the time proscribed 
herein for the filing of a registration statement may be extended by the 
Board. 
(b) Date of registration. The date of registration of a bank holding 
company shall be the date on which its registration statement is filed with 
the Federal Reserve Bank. 
§ 222.3 Acquisition of bank shares or assets. 
(a) Submission of applications. An application for approval by the 
^oard of any transaction requiring approval under section 3(a) of the Act shall 
he filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. A separate application shall be 
filed with respect to each bank the voting shares or assets of which are 
s
°ught to be acquired by an existing bank holding company or nonbanking 
subsidiary thereof. 
(b) Procedure on applications. 
(1) Applications under this section are processed in accordance 
with the procedures described in this Part and those described in § 262.3 
°f the Board's Rules of Procedure (Part 262 of this Chapter). 

errro 
- 3 -
(2) If cither the applicant, or a bank the voting shares or 
assets of which are sought to be acquired, is a national bank or a District 
Kink, the Board will transmit a copy of the application to the Comptroller of 
' «ie Currency, requesting written submission of the Comptroller's views and 
recommendation. 
If either the applicant, or a bank the voting shares or 
assets of which are sought to be acquired, is a State bank, the Board will 
transmit a copy of the application to the bank supervisory authority of 
the State in which such bank is located, requesting written submission of 
the State authority s views and recommendation. A copy of each application 
w
ill also be forwarded to the U. S. Department of Justice. 
(3) Following the receipt of an application under this section, 
the Board will publish a notice of such receipt in the Federal Register, 
containing the names and addresses of the applicant and the bank or banks 
involved, indicating the general nature of the proposed transaction, and 
allowing 30 days (or a shorter period in exceptional circumstances) for 
the submission of written comments or views. 
Such comments or views shall 
submitted to the Board. 
(4) As indicated in § 262.3(f)(1) of the Board's Rules of 
Procedure, the Board issues each week a list identifying applications filed 
Pursuant to section 3 of the Act. Pursuant to § 262.3(f)(7) of the Board's 
Rules of Procedure, each application is made available for inspection by 
the public except for portions thereof as to which the Board determines 
that non-disclosure is warranted. 

(c) Hearings on applications. 
(1) In any case in which the Board receives written advice of 
disapproval of the application from the Comptroller of the Currency or the 
appropriate State supervisory authority, as the case may be, within 30 days 
from the date of receipt of the application by the notified authority, the 
Board will so notify the applicant in writing, directing the applicant's 
attention to the provisions of section 3(b) of the Act. 
Within three days 
after the date of the sending of such notice to the applicant, the Board 
will notify in writing the applicant and the Comptroller of the Currency 
or the appropriate State supervisory authority, as the case may be, of the 
date fixed by the Board for the commencement of a hearing on the applica-
tion and of the place and time at which such hearing will be held. Any 
such hearing will be commenced not less than ten days nor more than thirty 
days after the date on which the Board sent the applicant 
notice of receipt 
°f written advice from the disapproving supervisory authority. 
(2) Apart from any hearing ordered by the Board under this 
section or under § 222.4 or § 222.5 of this Part, the Board may, as provided 
in § 262.3(f) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, afford the applicant or 
other person whom the Board determines to have a proper interest an 
opportunity to present views orally before the Board or its designated 
representative. 
(d) Action on applications. 
(1) In any case in which a hearing is held in accordance with 
Paragraph (c) of this section, the Board, after the conclusion of such 

hearing,, will by order grant or deny the application on the basis of the 
record made at such hearing. In all other cases, the Board will by order 
grant or deny the application after receipt by it of advice that the 
Comptroller of the Currency or the appropriate State supervisory authority, 
as the case may be, does not disapprove the application, or, if no such 
advice is received, after the expiration of thirty days from the date of 
receipt of the copy of the application by the Comptroller of the Currency 
or such State authority. 
(2) As required by the Act, the Board notifies the Attorney 
General of the United States of Board action on any transaction proposed 
under this section. 
(3) Action by the Board on an application pursuant to this section 
w
ill be taken in the manner described in subparagraphs (4) and (5) of 
§ 262.3(f) of the Board
1
 s Rules of Procedure, and any request for recon-
sideration of its action on any such application will be treated aw pro-
vided in subparagraph (6) of § 262.3(f). 
§ 222.4 
Interests in Nonbanking Organizations 
(a) Shares of financial, fiduciary, or insurance companies. Any 
bank holding company that is of the opinion that a company's activities, 
all of which are or are to be of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance nature, 
are so closely related to the business of banking or of managing or con-
trolling banks (as conducted by such bank holding company or its banking 
subsidiaries) as to be a proper incident thereto and as to make it 
unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act to apply in order 
carry out the purposes of the Act, may request the Board for such a 

determination pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Act. Any such request 
shall be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. The Board will advise the 
bank holding company whether a hearing is to be held and of the place and 
time for any such hearing. The Board will by order make or decline to make 
the requested determination. 
(k) Tax certifications. Any bank holding company desiring a certifica-
tion by the Board for purposes of the provisions of sections 1101 - 1103 
of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954 as amended (26 U.S.C. 1101-3) may file 
an application for such certification with the Federal Reserve Bank. On 
the basis of an application under this paragraph, the Board will either 
issue a certification or by order deny the application. A duplicate original 
of each certification will be transmitted by the Board to the Internal 
Revenue Service of the Treasury Department. 
(c) Determination regarding control by transferor. In any case in 
w
hich the Board, pursuant to section 2(g)(3) of the Act, affords opportunity 
for a hearing for the purpose of determining that a transferor is not in 
fact capable of controlling a transferee, the Board will give notice of 
O
pportunity for such hearing by publication in the Federal Register. Any 
request for a hearing shall be filed, in duplicate, with the Board. The 
Board will notify the applicant, the transferor, and the transferee of the 
t
inie and place for any hearing ordered. Upon the conclusion of such hearing, 
and on the basis of the record made at the hearing, the Board will by order 
m
ake or decline to make the subject determination. 

e r r r o 
- 7 -
If no hearing is requested by any party in interest within the time 
prescribed in the notice of opportunity for hearing, or if a hearing so 
requested is denied, the Board may dispense with a hearing, and, on the 
basis of the documentary evidence before it, will proceed to take action 
with respect to the determination contemplated by section 2(g)(3). 
5 222.5. Hearings and Proceedings. 
(a) Hearings. Apart from hearings required by the Act (see § 222.3(c) 
and § 222.4(a) and (c)), a hearing may be ordered by the Board with respect 
to any application or request under this Part, either upon its own motion 
or upon the request of any party in interest, if the Board deems such 
hearing to be in the interests of the parties or the public. Notice of 
any hearing required by the Act will be published in the Federal Register 
a reasonable time in advance of the date fixed for the hearing; and any 
hearing so required will ordinarily be held before a hearing examiner 
appointed in accordance with the provisions of Title 5 of the United States 
c
ode. All hearings under this Part will be conducted in accordance with 
the Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (Part 263 of this 
Chapter). 
(b) Record of proceedings. The record in any proceeding under this 
p
art upon which an order of the Board is based shall include, but is not 
necessarily limited to, the application or request filed with the Board 
i n
 connection with such proceeding; any views or recommendations received 
hy the Board from the Comptroller of the Currency or the appropriate State 
supervisory authority pursuant to section 3(b) of the Act; the transcript 

Of any hearing held with respect to such application or request and any 
report and recommendation made by the hearing examiner or hearing officer 
before whom such hearing was held; and any order of the Board granting or 
denying the application or request, and any statement in support thereof. 
5 222.6 
Reports and Examinations. 
Each bank holding company shall furnish to the Board in a form pre-
scribed by the Board a report of the company's operations for the fiscal 
year in which it becomes a bank holding company, and for each fiscal year 
thereafter until it ceases to be a bank holding company. Each such annual 
report shall be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. Each bank holding 
company shall furnish to the Board additional information at such times as 
the Board may require. The Board may examine any bank holding company or 
a n
y of its subsidiaries and the cost of any such examination shall be assess 
a
8ainst and paid by such bank holding company. As far as possible the Board 
"ill use reports of examinations made by the Comptroller of the Currency, 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, or the appropriate State bank 
supervisory authority. 
5 2 2 2
'
7
 
Copies. 
In connection with the filing of any document pursuant to this 
Regulation, the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank should be consulted as to 
the nurrber of copies required to be submitted. 

\J
 
1 
- 9 -
2a. This action is pursuant to the provisions of section 5(b) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S„C. 1844). 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice and public procedure, were not followed in connection 
with the adoption of this revision, because the substantive changes made 
• •' i I. . 
. 
in the revision merely incorporate into the regulation changes made in the 
law by the 1066 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act (80 Stat. 236), 
which became effective July 1, 1966. In these circumstances, the Board 
found that such notice and public procedure were unnecessary. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 8th rUv of February 1963. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
. < 
Robert f. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AMD BANKING 
Item No. 8 
2/8/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 262 - RULES OF PROCEDURE 
Change of Reference 
1. Effective March 15, 1968, § 262.3(f)(1) is amended to read 
as follows: 
§ 262.3 Applications. 
• * * 
(f) Bank holding company and merger applications. 
* * * 
(1) The Board issues each week a list that identifies holding 
company and merger applications received during the preceding week. 
Notice 
of receipt of each holding company application is published in the Federal 
Register as provided in § 222.3(b)(3) of this Chapter (Regulation Y). 
* * * 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to change the reference to 
Regulation Y in view of the revision of that Regulation effective March 15, 
1968. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code 
relating to notice and public participation are not followed in connection 
w
ith this amendment, because the change is procedural in nature. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 8th day of February 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
ITEM NO-
2/8/68 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , 
PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
February 8, 1968 
This is to advise you that the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia, acting under delegated authority from the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, extends for 
six months from March 10, 1968 the time within which Clearfield 
Trust Company may establish a "branch at the subject location. 
Yours sincerely, 
i% X. (teapbsu 
Undei\daN? of Mar oh 6 
L>Governorse ol the Feper 
mboths fr ok March iC, 1 
kid «stablisft\a V a n c j / a 
Mr. Asbury W . Lee, III, President 
The Clearfield Trust Company 
Clearfield, Pennsylvania 16830 
Dear Mr. Lee: 
Under date of Marc 
of the Federal Reserve Syste 
Clearfield Trust Company of 
the Ames Department 
Shopp 
Curwensville Highway (U.X Route 
Clearfield Couir^f B^ilhsylWnia, p: 
tablished within 
yea* o^vthe 
Board 
Board of Governors 
establishment by 
branch office in 
on the Clearfield-
Lavrence Township, 
d the branch was es-
date. 
1967 you were advised the 
Reserve System had extended 
7 the time within which your 
at the subject location. 
with 
locati 
date ofAugust 5L, I967 you were advised that 
Bank of Philadelphia, acting under delegated 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
six months from September 10, 19^7 the time 
bank could establish a branch at the subject 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
