Minutes for August 5, 1968 
Members of the Board 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of minutes commenc-
ing on the page and dealing with the subject referred to below: 
Page 5 Amendments to Regulation F, Securities of 
Member State Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, it 
will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. Other-
se, please initial below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If you were not 
Present, your initials will indicate only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 5, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane JL/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Messrs. Doyle, Lipkowitz, and Plotkin of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Poundstone, and Sanford of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Acquisition of stock of Costa Rican corporation (Item No. 1). 
TH a T> 
Board approved unanimously the application of First National City 
—/ Attended morning session only. 

8/5/68 
-10-
Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to 
acquire up to 30 per cent of the shares of Compania Internacional de 
Banano S.A., Costa Rica, at a cost of approximately $45. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board approved unanimously 
the transmittal of a report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
The Kings County Savings Bank, New York, New York, with Union Square 
Savings Bank, New York, New York. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between Union 
Square Savings Bank, New York, and The Kings County 
Savings Bank, New York. However, in view of the sub-
stant ial number and variety of financial institutions 
offering convenient facilities for savings banks' 
customers, the competition that would be eliminated by 
the proposed merger would not appear to be such as to 
cause the overall effect on competition to be more 
than slightly adverse. 
Name of Edge corporation. 
There had been distributed a memo-
randum dated August 1, 1968, from the Legal Division regarding the 
issuance of a final permit to a subsidiary of United States National 
Bank, Portland, Oregon, to commence operations pursuant to section 25(a) 
°f the Federal Reserve Act under the name of United States International 
Banking Corporation. 
The Board had issued a preliminary permit on 
June 21, 1968. 
Although the issuance of the preliminary permit had amounted 
technically to approval of the corporation's name, the memorandum 

£ 2 6 
8/5/68 
. 3 . 
pointed out a possible conflict between the name authorized for the 
corporation and provisions of law regarding the use of the words 
"United States" by business firms. 
Section 709 of the United States Criminal Code imposes criminal 
sanctions upon those who, except as otherwise permitted by Federal law, 
use the words "national," "Federal," "United States," "reserve," or 
deposit insurance" as part of a business or firm name. This provision 
of law superseded an earlier statute on the same subject that made the 
general prohibition of the statute inapplicable, among other things, 
to corporations organized under Federal law, including Edge corporations. 
The earlier exemption, however, was not contained in the new statute, 
and the question presented was whether corporations chartered by the 
Federal Government remained exempt from the prohibition against use 
°f the words "United States" in their titles. 
The Legal Division was of the opinion, for reasons specified 
in the memorandum, that the exemption continued to exist for corpora-
tions organized under Federal law and that the present law would not 
Preclude the Board from approving use of the words "United States" in 
an Edge corporation's title. However, in this case the title did not 
clearly identify the corporation with its parent, United States National 
Bank, and it was possible that the title might tend to convey the 
impression of affiliation with the United States Government. The Divi-
s ion suggested, therefore, that the Board might wish to request the 

OtJ 
8/5/68 
-10-
corporation to change its name to "United States National Bank Inter-
national Corporation." 
Following a review of the material in the memorandum by Mr. 
D°yle, Governor Daane inquired whether the suggested change of name 
was agreeable to the corporation and to its parent bank. Mr. Doyle 
r e P U e d that the matter had been mentioned informally to the corpora-
tion's representatives, but no definite indication of their feelings 
°n the matter had been ascertained. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that it was difficult to 
interpret the intent of the present statute as being other than to 
Preclude the use of the words "United States" in the titles of corpo-
rations and business firms except Federal corporations. 
Governor 
Brimmer said it was his impression that the present statute had appar-
ently overlooked the earlier provision, and that there was no intent 
to make a substantive change in the law. In any event, both statutes 
W G r e e xP l l cit in stating that institutions in existence with the words 
"tt -S 
1 e States" in their titles were not required to change. 
In this 
a s e , therefore, the issue seemed to be whether to request a modifica-
tion of the Edge corporation's title to conform to that of the parent 
bank. Governor Sherrill agreed that a request should be made that the 
w°rds "National Bank" be included in the title of the Edge corporation; 
go further would be a hardship in denying identification with the 
Parent banir 
r. 
K' 
Governor Maisel noted the confusion that might be created 

2961 
8/5/68 
-10-
overseas in terms of whether the Edge subsidiary was or was not a Fed-
eral corporation. He gathered it was the purpose of the law to prevent 
such confusion from occurring. However, he would be willing to go 
along, in this particular instance, with the change in name that had 
been suggested. 
Accordingly, the staff was directed to take the matter up 
informally with the bank with a view to determining whether they would 
be willing to change the title of the Edge corporation in the manner 
suggested. 
Amendments to Regulation F (Items 2 and 3). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated August 2, 1968, from the Legal Division 
recommending certain amendments to Regulation F, Securities of Member 
State Banks, to implement amendments to the Securities Exchange Act 
°f 1934 contained in Public Law 90-439, which became effective on 
J uly 29, 1968. 
The new law required disclosure of certain information with 
respect to acquisitions of more than 10 per cent of a class of equity 
securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Securities Exchange 
A c t , the making of tender offers or solicitation in favor of, or in 
°PPosition to, such tender offers, and the replacement of a majority 
the directors of an issuer in connection with an acquisition or 
tender offer subject to the Act. The statute was of concern to the 
Board because it applied to all State member banks registered pursuant 

U J 
8/5/68 
-10-
to Regulation F and, as to such banks, the Board had responsibility 
for implementing its provisions. 
The proposed amendments were sub-
stantially the same as the temporary regulations issued by the Securi-
ties and Exchange Commission. 
Following an explanation of the nature of the amendments by 
Mr. Plotkin, the Board unanimously approved the amendments to Regula-
tion F, effective immediately. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of 
the press statement that was issued; attached as Item No. 3 is a copy 
of the document published in the Federal Register. 
Repair and alterations project at St. Louis (Item No. 4). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated July 30, 1968, from the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommending that the 
Board interpose no objection to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
proceeding with a repair and alterations project in the Bank's head 
office annex building involving expenditures of approximately $403,000. 
ml 
n e proposed project would generally involve renovation of one floor, 
relocation of two departments, and installation of air conditioning 
and a new computer complex. 
Although the project did not technically require Board approval, 
the Reserve Bank desired to bring it to the Board's attention in view 
°f the present policy of avoiding nonessential outlays and reducing 
budget expenditures. 
The Bank noted that the greater part of the 
Proposed expenditures here involved would not be incurred until 1969. 

<J3 
O O 
8/5/68 
-10-
The Board noted without objection the proposed repairs and 
alterations, as outlined in the Reserve Bank's letter of July 18, 1968, 
and a telegram to this effect was sent to the Reserve Bank in the form 
attached hereto as Item No. 4. 
Call report forms (Item No. 5). Governor Robertson referred 
to the consideration given by the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regu-
lation last Friday to proposed revisions in the banking agencies' call 
report forms, and he requested Mr. Partee to outline the principal 
items that had been discussed. 
Mr. Partee indicated that the first item involved the treatment 
°f excess valuation and bad debt reserves. There had been agreement 
° n 3 m e thod of handling those items. The second topic related to the 
treatment of intra-bank debits. A recommendation had been made that 
these items be shown net, but in view of strong objections from the 
Comptroller of the Currency this proposal was not adopted. 
Governor 
Robertson added at this point that the reason for concern related to 
the effect the proposed revision would have on the assessments levied 
uPon national banks by the Comptroller. 
It was agreed that, while the 
Proposed forms would be released for public comment without the recom-
ended revision, this was without prejudice to the right of each agency 
raise the question again after comments were received. The third 
item of discussion, Mr. Partee continued, related to the use of the 
° r d 
°ther" in "other loans and discounts." 
It had been agreed by 

O i 
8/5/68 
-10-
the participants to make no change in this respect, for the purpose 
°f obtaining comments. 
Mr. Partee concluded by saying that the proposed revised forms 
would be sent out for comments by the respective supervisory agencies 
within the next few days. There would then be further interagency dis-
cussion in the light of comments received, and it was intended that 
revised forms, hopefully uniform, would be made effective at the 
beginning of 1969. 
Participation by the System in the invitation for comments 
w a s authorized, it being understood that this did not commit the Board 
t 0 a position different from its existing position on the points men-
tioned by Mr. Partee that were still unresolved among the agencies. 
Attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the letter subsequently 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Inclusion of coin in required reserves. Governor Robertson 
reported that he had received a telephone request from Assistant 
Secretary of the Treasury Wallace that the Board consider the desir-
ability of amending Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, to exclude 
dimes and quarters (or possibly all coin) from vault cash countable 
f o r reserve purposes. 
It was Governor Robertson's understanding that 
the proposal was based on Mr. Wallace's belief that some banks might 
b e holding large amounts of silver coin and that the suggested change 
Regulation D would cause such banks to release their excess holdings. 

V'^flfj 
8/5/68 
-10-
Governor Brimmer commented that from conversations he had had 
with Treasury people there appeared to be separate problems with 
respect to pennies and silver coins. The problem with respect to 
Pennies seemed to center around the fact that banks were unwilling to 
accept unwrapped coin and that the holders were unwilling to go to the 
trouble of wrapping. This had resulted in difficulty in getting the 
Pennies back into the banking system, and the Mint was faced with 
diverting production from clad coins to pennies. As to the silver 
coins, particularly dimes, the Treasury was asking the Federal Reserve 
to consider modifying the present arrangements for sorting silver and 
qIO J 
. 
coins, and the appropriate committee of the Presidents' Conference 
W a S l o o king into the matter. A letter from the Treasury was reportedly 
0 n r o u t e • 
Some Reserve Banks had not been able to sort the backlog of 
dimes, With the result that they were holding fairly large quantities 
°f unsorted dimes and a shortage of currency in that denomination was 
developing. 
With reference to the suggestion from Mr. Wallace to which 
Governor Robertson had referred, Governor Sherrill said he would have 
n 0 0kjection to gathering the facts. However, he had a bias against 
changing reserve requirements to accommodate that kind of problem, 
he felt that a direct request to the banks might constitute a more 
Useful approach. 

8/5/68 
-10-
Governor Robertson suggested that the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations and the Legal Division study the proposal, 
and it was agreed that that would be done. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson sub-
sequently discussed the matter further with 
Assistant Secretary Wallace on the basis of 
information compiled by the Division of Fed-
eral Reserve Bank Operations, with the result 
that it was understood that the proposal would 
not be pursued by the Treasury. 
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson had distributed to the members 
°f the Board a memorandum dated August 2, 1968, concerning construction 
contracts for the Board's new annex building. 
At its meeting on June 18, 1968, the Board had requested Gover-
n° r s h e rrill and Mr. Shepardson to make a further study of contract 
schedules for the new building that would defer major expenditures or 
Sl8nificant accruals of financial obligations until after January 1, 
This action had contemplated the possibility of letting one or 
m°re contracts prior to that date if the actual accruals would not be 
significant. 
The memorandum explained that, in view of the problem involved 
i n q u a r rying and fabricating marble, the Board's architects had now 
Commended that the marble contract be put out for bids on or about 
SePtember 1, 1968, with the contract to be let about October 1, 1968. 
One of t-ho 
two prospective suppliers had estimated that the accrued 
ability, as of December 31, 1968, on such a contract schedule would 

8/5/68 
-10-
no t exceed $30,000; the other estimated not to exceed $45,000. 
In 
neither case would invoices for progress payments be submitted prior 
to February 1, 1969. 
The architects had also recommended that the general excavation 
contract be put out for bids on December 1, 1968, and be let about 
January 1, 1969. On the basis of these adjustments in contract sched-
uling, it had been estimated that the date for completion of the build-
ing would be deferred from March 1, 19)1, to July 1, 1971. 
After discussion of the matter by Mr. Shepardson and an expres-
sion of concurrence by Governor Sherrill, the Board authorized putting 
the marble contract out for bids about September 1, 1968. The Board 
also authorized any resulting overexpenditure, estimated at not more 
than $7,500, in the current budget allocation for the new building. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:00 p.m., at which time Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer were 
Present along with Messrs. Kenyon, Sherman, Hackley, and Molony of the 
staff. 
« 
Activity of director. Governor Robertson stated that it had 
just been learned from President Swan of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco that a Board-appointed director of the Salt Lake City 
Branch, Mr. Royden G. Derrick, was serving as a delegate to a national 
Political convention. 
The Board had consistently taken the position 
that such service was incompatible with its 1915 resolution regarding 

t 
8/5/68 
-12-
public and political activities, and the question was whether an 
effort should be made at this stage to remind Mr. Derrick of the reso-
lution in order that he might be aware of its implications prior to 
participating in the vote on a nominee. Upon receiving such advice, 
Mr. Derrick might decide to let an alternate serve in his stead. 
Governor Robertson also suggested that a wire be sent to the 
Chairmen and Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks calling their 
attention to the nature of the question that had arisen in order that 
Possible inadvertent violations of the 1915 resolution might be 
avoided. 
(Note: Such a telegram was sent later in the day.) 
The other members of the Board agreed that the procedure sug-
gested by Governor Robertson would be appropriate. 
It was understood 
1.L . 
such a procedure would be followed, the contact with Mr. Derrick 
t o be made by the Chairman of the San Francisco Bank or, in the alter-
native, by President Swan. 
Secretary's Note: Upon being contacted by 
President Swan, Mr. Derrick arranged for 
his alternate to vote in his stead. 
Affiliations of 
incoming President. Governor Brimmer noted 
that the press had carried a comment attributed to President-elect 
Morris of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston that he "might" have to 
resign certain corporate directorships upon assuming the Presidency 
o f the Bank, effective August 15. 
l t w a s understood that the Secretary's Office would communicate 
the Boston Reserve Bank to assure that Mr. Morris was aware of 

8/5/68 
-10-
the Board's position that an officer of a Federal Reserve Bank should 
n o t at the same time hold corporate directorships. 
Secretary's Note: From communication with 
the Bos ton Reserve Bank it developed that 
Mr. Morris was aware of the situation and 
was taking steps to divest himself of the 
directorships in question before assuming 
office as President of the Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Sherrill today 
approved on behalf of the Board the follow-
ing items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
^ y 26, 1968, recommending the establishment of an additional position 
t i o ^ e s e a r c h assistant in the Statistical Methodology and Procedures Sec-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
board's staff: 
with ^ a m ? S W < G r a y a s Systems Engineer, Division of Data Processing, 
n basic annual salary at the rate of $21,098, effective the date 
entrance upon duty. 
Ser . E l d r i d 8 e Boiling, Jr., as Laborer, Division of Administrative 
th V^ C e s' w i t h basic annual salary at the rate of $3,889, effective 
e date of entrance upon duty. 
Ser . P h i l i p D* 
Faber as Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
t h^ V^ c e s> wifch basic annual salary at the rate of $4,279, effective 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Reg 
Te^esita Q. Eakin, Stenographer, Division of Supervision and 
Station, from $4,753 to $5,145 per annum, effective August 25, 1968. 
jr
 
G- R o e> Stenographer, Division of Research and Statistics, 
^>316 to $5,732 per annum, with a change in title to Secretary, 
active August 11, 1968. 

2273 
8/5/68 
-14-
On August 5, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached as 
indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Item No 
Letter to Belt Valley Bank, Belt, Montana, 
6 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
frr\ 
> 
i . 
!. i • :• • , • . , 
" : ' " 
' ; . • >"v / 

1974 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/5/68 
t 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TD THE BOARD 
August 5, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of July 16, 1968, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent for your Corporation to purchase and hold up to 30 per 
cent of the shares of Compania Internacional de Banano S.A., 
Costa Rica, at a cost of approximately US$45, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of .this 
letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be made 
within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your Corporation, First 
National City Bank, International Banking Corporation, and 
First National City Bank (International), and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 2 
8/5/68 
* " y V * ^ 
For immediate release. 
August 5, 1968. 
$ . . 
„ . 
* 
• .V 
, 
The Board of Governors announced today the adoption, effective 
.4 f , „ t- ,.s 
. 
.. 
; 
immediately, of amendments to Federal Reserve Regulation F, "Securities 
of Member State Banks", to implement recent amendments to the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 contained in Public Law 90-439, which became 
effective July 29, 1968. 
1 >': • «'t 
The new law requires disclosure of certain information with 
• ? 
, 
, ^ 
respect to acquisitions of more than 10 per cent of a class of equity 
securities registered pursuant to section 12 of the Act, the making of 
tender offers or solicitations in favor of, or in opposition to, such 
tender offers, and the replacement of a majority of the directors of 
an issuer in connection with an acquisition, or tender offer, subject 
to the Act. 
Section 12 of the Act applies to corporations whose securities 
a re traded on exchanges and those with $1 million of assets and 500 or 
more stockholders whose securities are traded over the counter. 
The amendments to Regulation F adopted by the Board of 
Governors implement the statutory provisions insofar as they apply to 
) t a t e banks that are members of the Federal Reserve System. 
The new regulations provide that no tender offer with respect 
to securities of member State banks subject to Regulation F shall be 
i % 
m ?de unless certain information is filed with the Board and included 

in the advertisement containing the tender offer. For example, 
disclosure is required with respect to the identity and background 
of the persons making the tender offer and the source of funds used 
in the tender offer. Similar information is required to be filed with 
the Board by persons acquiring a more than 10 per cent stock interest 
in a bank by means other than through a tender offer. The regulation 
also applies to all recommendations to accept or reject the tender 
offer. 
. The new regulations are "not all-inclusive or final and further 
consideration will be given to more fully implementing the statutory 
amendments. Any comments or suggestions that interested persons may 
wish to make with respect to these regulations should be addressed to 
the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 
20551. 
Copies of the interim amendments, which will be published in 
the Federal Register, may be obtained from the Board of Governors and 
w l U be available for distribution in the next few days at all Federal 
*Q (i 
iVvPteiV 
Reserve Banks. 

4 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
J * ? ®
3 
o/5/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 206 - SECURITIES OF MEMBER STATE BANKS 
[Keg. F] 
Tender Offers and Other Stock Acquisitions 
1. Sec. 206*4 is amended to change its title and to revise 
Paragraph (g), a s set forth below: 
S e c- 2 0 6«4 Registration Statements and Reports. 
•k 
it "k 
V 
* • , • 
. 
• • V 
' >? 
» ; 
Cg) Current Reports. (1) Every registrant bank shall file a 
Current report in conformity with the reiquirements of Form F-3 within 
10' ft' ^ 
days after the close of any month during which any of the events 
specified in that form occurs, unless substantially the same information 
a s required by that form has been previously reported by the bank. 
(2) Any person who, after acquiring, subsequent to July 29, 1968, 
directly or indirectly the beneficial ownership of any equity security 
a m e m ber State bank, of a class which is registered pursuant to Sec-
t i o n 1 2 o f the Act, is directly or indirectly the beneficial owner of more 
than 10 p e r c e n t 
sucy1 c i a s s shall, within ten days after such acqui-
lj 
0l*> send to the bank at its principal executive office, by registered 
certified mail, send to each exchange where the security is traded, and 
e 
the Board a statement containing the information required by 
Form F-li, 

(3) If any material change occurs in the facts set forth in 
r 
' 
the statement required by paragraph (g)(2), the person who filed such 
statement shall promptly file with the Board and send to the bank and 
the exchange an amendment disclosing such change. 
•Z. Sec. 206.5 is amended to change its title and to add 
Paragraphs (2), (m), and (n), as set forth below: 
Sec, 206.5. Proxy Statements and Other Solicitations Under Section 14 
of the Act. 
* 
* 
* 
Q ) Invitations for tenders. (1) No person, directly or 
indirectly, by use of the mails or by any means or instrumentality of 
interstate commerce or of any facility of a national securities exchange 
otherwise, shall make a tender offer for, or a request or invitation 
for tenders of, any class of any equity security, which is registered 
Pursuant to section 12 of the Act, of a member State bank if, after con-
summation thereof( such person would, directly or indirectly, be the 
beneficial owner of more than 10 per cent of such class, unless, at the 
time copies of the offer or request or invitation are first published or 
8ent or given to security holders, such person has filed with the Board 
a statement containing the information and exhibits required by Form F-ll 
Provided f however. that any person making a tender offer for or a request 
invitation for tenders which commenced prior to August 6, 1968, shall, 
such offer, request or invitation continues after such date, file the 
statement required by this paragraph on or before August 15, 1968, 

P
8
7
3 
-3-
(2) If any material change occurs in the facts set forth in 
the statement required by sub-paragraph (1), the person who filed such 
statement shall promptly file with the Board an amendment disclosing 
such change. 
(3) All requests or invitations for tenders or advertisements 
ma^ing a tender offer or requesting or inviting tenders shall contain 
the name of the persons making such requests, invitations, or advertisements 
flhd the information required by Items 2(a) and (c), 3, 4, 5 and 6 of 
'orm F-Xi 
or a fair and adequate summary thereof, and shall be filed with 
the Board as part of the statement required by sub-paragraph (1). 
(4) Any additional material soliciting or requesting such tender 
offers subsequent to the initial solicitation or request shall contain the 
name of the persons making such solicitation or request and the information 
required by Items 2(a) and (c), 3, 4, 5 and 6 of Form F-ll, or a fair 
and adequate summary thereof: Provided, howevert that such material may 
°mit any of such information previously furnished to the persons solicited 
•fr^U'i 
<»$;•/ ifiU v/tch tut; liOuJTd zz 
dll-lo^U^ •juzli cri^o--
Qyi requested for tender offers. Copies of such additional material solici-
ting or requesting such tender offers shall be filed with the Board not 
later than the time copies of such material are first published or sent 
°r given to security holders. 
' .4' 
.,ucli uoiicl:.ls>a ov r^ioaa^ichc 
she iu^fcuition 
_ 
(m) Recommendations as to tender offers. (1) No solicitation 
Ot* 
recommendation to the holders of a security to accept or reject a tender 
°£fer or request or invitation for tenders subject to Section 14(d) of the 
shall be made unless, at the time copies of the solicitation or 

-4-
2380 
recommendation are first published or sent or given to holders of tti« 
security, the person making such solicitation or recommendation has filed 
with the Board a statement containing the information specified by Form F-12: 
J*, j ^-. 
Providedr however, that this paragraph shall not apply to (1) a person re-
quired t>y Sec. 206.5(1) to file a statement, or (2) a person, other than 
the bank or the management of the bank, xjho makes no written solicitations 
o r recommendations other than solicitations or recommendations copies of 
which have otherwise been filed with the Board. And, provided further, 
that 
any person making a solicitation or recommendation to the holders of 
a security to accept or reject a tender offer or request or invitation for 
tenders which solicitation or recommendation commenced prior to August 6, 
1968 
shall, if such solicitation or recommendation continues after such 
date, file the statement required by this paragraph on or before August 15, 
I960. it 
or 
ofui 
v. 
(2) If any material change occurs in the facts set forth in the 
statement required by sub-paragraph (1), the person who filed such statement 
shall promptly file with the Board an amendment disclosing such change. 
(3) Any written solicitation or recommendation to the holders of 
a security to accept or reject a tender offer or request or invitation for 
tenders subject to Section 14(d) of the Act shall include the name of the 
Person making such solicitation or recommendation and the information re-
tired by Items 1(b), 2(b) of Form F-12,or a fair and adequate summary 
thereof; Provided, however, that such written solicitation or recommendation 
may omit any of such information previously furnished to the persons to 
whom the solicitation or recommendation is made. 

-5-
(n) Change in majority of directors. If, pursuant to any 
arrangement or understanding with the person or persons acquiring securi-
ties in a transaction subject to section 13(d) or 14(d) of the Act, any 
persons are to be elected or designated as directors of the bank, otherwise 
than at a*meeting of security holders, and the persons so elected or 
designated will constitute a majority of the directors of the bank, then, 
not less than 10 days prior to the date any such person takes office as a 
director, or such shorter period prior to that date as the Board may 
authorize upon a showing of good cause therefor, the bank shall file with 
the Board and transmit to all holders of record of securities of the bank 
who would be entitled to vote at a meeting for election of directors, 
Information substantially equivalent to the information which would be 
required by Items 5(a), (d), (e) and (f) , 6 and 7 of Form F-5 to be trans-
mitted if such person or persons were nominees for election as directors 
a t a meeting of such security holders, 
3. The following forms are added: 
Sec. 206.47 Form for Statement to be Filed Pursuant to Sec. 206.4(g)(2) 
or Sec. 206.5(1) of Regulation F (Form F-ll) 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FORM F-ll 
STATEMENT TO BE FILED PURSUANT TO SEC. 206.4(g)(2) 
OR 206.5(1) of REGULATION F 
(c) V't^wnl 
LasvlpaX'-efccUp as 1 on. 3x 
General Instructions 
The item numbers and captions of the items shall be included 
r 
'*?> 
t ?? 1 O' 
;' • J. 3 
i.. 
< 
but the text of the items may be omitted. The answers to the items shall 
ke so prepared as to indicate clearly the coverage of the items without 

O . Q n O 
- 6 -
r®ferring to the text of the items. Answer every item. If an item 
^s inapplicable or the answer is in the negative, so state. 
If the statement is filed by a partnership, limited partnership, 
syndicate, or other group, the information called for by Items 2 to 6, 
inclusive, shall be given with respect to (1) each partner or any partner-
ship or limited partnership, (2) each member of such syndicate or group 
and (3) e a c h person controlling such partner or member. If a person re-
ferred to in (1), (2), or (3) is a corporation or the statement is 
filed by a corporation, the information called for by the above-mentioned 
.'J 
ltcms shall be given with respect to each principal officer and director 
y * , 
. 
. . . . . . 
°f such corporation and each person controlling such corporation, 
i^mj.. Security and Bank. 
State the title of the class of equity securities to which this 
statement relates and the name and address of the bank which issued such 
•JiitA ^ W 
••V is-.;:; 
i a-.,. '-\>c ioa 
i K,'-: 
securities. 
2. Identity and Background. 
''if 
-v. . , ... 
, , > ' „t» , ., 
,, ,t 
n , v«r I •• .-J r't.'-i 
State the following with respect to the person filing this 
a 
statement: 
(a) Name and business address; 
• 
<tfc hJLi c>>:* fXH, 
L'i; j ruuuc «!* cus? 
(b) Residence address; 
* 
(c) Present principal occupation or employment and the name, 
Principal business and address of any corporation or other organization 
which such employment is carried on; 

-7-
(d) Material occupations, positions, offices or employments 
during the last 10 years, giving the starting and ending dates of each 
and the name, principal business and address of any business corporation 
other organization in which each such occupation, position, office or 
emploVment was carried on; and 
(e) Whether or not, during the last 10 years, such person has 
been convicted in a criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations or 
similar misdemeanors) and, if so, give the dates, nature of conviction, 
name and location of court, and penalty imposed, or other disposition of 
the case. 
Item 3. Source and Amount of Funds or Other Consideration. 
State the source and amount of funds or other consideration used 
to be used in making the purchases, and if any part of the purchase 
Ptice or proposed purchase price is represented or is to be represented 
by funds or other consideration borrowed or otherwise obtained for the 
-
Purpose of acquiring, holding, or trading the securities, a description 
the 
transaction and the names of the parties thereto. 
Instruction: If the source of funds is a loan made in the 
ordinary course of business by a bank, the person filing the 
' -P c t j .... ...„ ,v t (| ... ,.. 
H)'u >1 
• O F 
? a -s y," rh 
(u • 
statement may, at his option, omit the name of the bank, provided 
it is furfiished to the Board in a letter requesting confidential 
treatment as to such information. Pursuant to section 13(d)(1)(B) 
of the Act, such information shall not be made available to the 
public. 

-8-
Item 
Purpose of Transaction. 
If the purpose of the purchases or prospective purchases is 
to acquire control of the bank, describe any plans or proposals which 
such persons may have to liquidate such bank, to sell its assets to or 
merge it with any other persons, or to make any other major change in 
its business or corporate structure. 
Interest in Securities of the Bank. 
State the number of shares of the security which are beneficially 
°wned, and the number of shares concerning which there is a right to 
acquire, directly or indirectly, by (i) such person, and (ii) each 
associate of such person, giving the name and address of each such 
associate. 
^tgm 6. Contracts, Arrangements, or Understandings with respect to 
Securities of the Bank. 
Furnish information as to any contracts, arrangements, or 
understandings with any person with respect to any securities of the bank, 
including 
but not limited to transfer of any of the securities, joint 
V entures, loan or option arrangements, puts or calls, guaranties of loans, 
Guaranties against loss or guaranties of profits, division of losses or 
Profits, or the giving or withholding of proxies, naming the persons with 
whom such contracts, arrangements, or understandings have been entered 
l n t o , and giving the details thereof. 

•> tr 
-9-
Item__7e Persons Retained, Employed or to be Compensated. 
Where this statement relates to a tender offer, or request or 
invitation for tenders, identify all persons and classes of persons 
Employed, retained or to be compensated by the person filing this state-
went, or by any person on his behalf, to make solicitations or recommenda-
tions to security holders and describe briefly the terms of such employment, 
retainer or arrangement for compensation. 
Material to be Filed as Exhibits. 
Copies of all requests or invitations for tenders or advertise-
ments making a tender offer or requesting or inviting tenders, additional 
material soliciting or requesting such tender offers, solicitations or 
recommendations to the holders of the security to accept or reject a tender 
°ffer or request or invitation for tenders shall be filed as an exhibit. 
Signature 
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief the 
information set forth in this statement is true, complete and correct. 
• ttu.3 
f 
(Date) 
(Signature) 
If the statement is signed on behalf of a person by an authorized 
representative, evidence of the representative's authority to sign on 
behalf of such person shall be filed with the statement. 

2
3
&
G 
-10-
Sec. 206.53 Forta for Statement to be Filed Pursuant to 
Sec. 206.5(m) of Regulation F (Form F-12) 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FORM F-12 
STATEMENT TO BE FILED PURSUANT TO SEC. 206.5(n) 
# • 
OF REGULATION F 
General Instructions 
'tC.C CO: , 
... • 
The item numbers and captions of the items shall be included 
hut the text of the items may be omitted. The answers to the items shall 
D e so prepared as to indicate clearly the coverage of the items without 
referring to the text of the items. Answer every item. If an item is 
i 
n 
: i! 
inapplicable 
or the answer is in the negative, so state. 
ItemJ.. Security and Bank. 
(a) State the title of the class of equity securities to which 
this statement relates and the name and address of the bank which issued 
such securities, 
(b) Identify the tender offer or request or invitation for tenders 
to which this statement relates and state the reasons for the solicitation 
°r recommendation to security holders to accept or reject such tender offer, 
request, or invitation for tenders. 
2. Identity and Background. 
(a) State the name and business address of the person filing 
thls statement, 
(b) Describe any arrangement or understanding in regard to the 
solicitation 
with (i) the bank or the management of the bank or (ii) the 
mafcer of the tender offer or request or invitation for tender of securities 
the class to which this statement relates*. 

-11-
Xtem 3. Persons Retained. Employed or to be Compensated. 
Identify any person or class or persons employed, retained or 
fco be compensated, by the person filing this Form F-12, or by any person 
°n his Jjehalf, to make solicitations or recommendations to security holders 
and describe briefly the terms of such employment, retainer or arrangement 
i 
for compensation. 
Item 4. Material to be Filed as Exhibits. 
Copies of all solicitations or recommendations to accept or to 
reject a tender offer or request or invitation for tenders of the securities 
specified in Item 1 shall be filed as an exhibit. 
Signature 
I certify that to the best of my knowledge and belief the 
information set forth in this statement is true, complete and correct. 
~ ~ 
(Date) 
(Signature) 
If the statement is signed on behalf of a person by an authorized 
representative, evidence of the representative's authority to sign on 
behalf of such person shall be filed with the statement. 
4. Sec. 206.51 (Form F-5) is amended by adding the following 
Paragraphs (e) and (f) to Item 5 - "Voting Securities and Principal 
Holders Thereof" of such form: 
Form F-5 
* * * 

-12-
Item 5. Voting Securities and Principal Holders Thereof. 
• 
* 
* 
(e) If to the knowledge of the persons on whose behalf the 
solicitation is made, a change in control of the bank has occurred since 
the beginning of its last fiscal year, state the name of the person or 
persons who acquired such control, the basis of such control, the date and 
a description of the transaction or transactions in which control was 
acquired and the percentage of voting.securities of the bank now owned by 
such person or persons. 
(f) Describe any contractual arrangements, including any pledge 
of securities of the bank or any of its parents, known to the persons on 
whose behalf the solicitation is made, the operation of the terms of which 
may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the bank. 
Instruction. Paragraph (f) does not require a description 
of ordinary default provisions contained in the charter, trust 
indentures or other governing instruments relating to securities 
of the bank. 
5, (a) The foregoing amendments, which are effective immediately, 
implement the provisions of Public Law 90-439, which became effective 
July 29, 1968, as they apply to State member banks. 
(b) The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States Code, 
relating to notice, public participation, and deferred effective date 
were not followed in connection with these amendments, for the reason that 
the Board finds it is necessary in the public interest and for the protec-
tion of investors that regulations implementing Public Law 90-439 be 

i u . 
^ 9 8 9 
"' 
c 
-*'> 
—1 
-13-
adopted effective immediately and that such procedures, with respect 
to these amendments, would serve no useful purpose as the amendments 
simply implement statutory provisions without significant exercise of 
administrative discretion or interpretation. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of August, 1960. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
-h-iit 
: i -o.' v.'. ! 
.•^••i 
.' 
Robert PkJ Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
- ' 
- \ : -.:• '".,.:'.• . . 4 
August 5, 1968 
Item No. 
8/5/68 
FRANCIS - ST. LOUIS 
The Board has noted without objection the proposed repairs and 
alterations of the Head Office annex building, as outlined in 
your letter of July 18, 1968, involving an expenditure of 
approximately $403,000. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
• 
c r i 
y 11 i c 
- / 
» 
0 O'fA .•' 
FORRESTAL 
unc tr 
tic 
V. *.. 
ii'! •; •,!. j 
;C '• i 
». t 
« - i 
* ' i > 
: 1 
. . 
•iZ :>\b'.S 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
8/5/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 16, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
In his letter of March 6, 1968, Governor Robertson 
requested your coir.ments on staff report setting forth recommenda-
tions for revision of the bank Call Report and annual income 
statement that had been prepared for the Inter-agency Coordinating 
Committee. Comments received were carefully reviewed by the staff 
and contributed to the development of the final report and 
proposals. 
The proposals have now been cleared for public 
distribution by all of the Federal Banking Agencies, and comments 
will be widely solicited. The Comptroller plans to mail copies 
to all national banks, and the FDIC to insured non-member State 
banks„ Accordingly we are sending sufficient copies to you, 
under separate cover, for distribution to each State member bank 
in your District. Mailing and distribution to banks and to the 
Public will begin August 20. All comments are to be received no 
lc.ter than September 30 and forwarded to the Board immediately 
thereafter. 
Enclosed are copies of the proposals for your 
immediate information. A draft of a letter that might be used 
for transmittal to State member banks is also enclosed. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

(Draft of possible letter to be sent to all State member banks) 
Dear Sir: 
From time to time minor revisions in the Call and Income 
and Dividend Reports are necessary because of changes in banking 
practice and in financial conditions. On this occasion, however, 
the Federal Bank Supervisory Agencies have completed a review of 
current reporting requirements and are proposing a more fundamental 
revision of these reports. The major impetus for this reappraisal 
stemmed from the various points of non-comparability between the 
regulatory reports and the requirements with respect to financial 
disclosure promulgated by the three agencies in compliance with the 
Securities Acts Amendments of 1964, but it also has been felt that the 
existing reports have become increasingly deficient in reflecting 
the activities of banks as business enterprises. 
A3 the result of a detailed study of ways to achieve 
better and more uniform bank reports, the agencies have drafted 
a set of proposed changes in the Call and Income and Dividend 
Reports. A copy of the agencies' material is enclosed for your 
information. The most significant changes envisioned concern 
accounting principles. Here the proposals advocate a wider 
application of accrued accounting and a change in the treatment 
of taxes, valuation reserves, fixed assets, and securities trading 
accounts. Other proposals call for the consolidation of certain 
domestic subsidiaries and, in a separate consolidated report, the 

-2-
signifleant foreign banking activities of larger commercial banks. 
Some form of public disclosure of the contents of the annual Income 
and Dividend reports is also advocated. 
We would appreciate receiving any comments that you may 
have on these proposals and on the associated changes in the 
reporting forms (detailed in Sections 3 and 4 of the Report). 
Since the plan is to introduce the changes fcr the calendar year 
1969, and in view of the lead-times necessary in developing 
procedures for the change-over,-it would be appreciated if we 
could receive your comments on or before September 30, 1S63. 
Very truly yours, 

2 9 3 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
BANK OF 
M I N N E A P O L I S 
8/5/68 
M I N N E A P O L I S , 
M I N N E S O T A 
55440 
I T E M 
N O # 
6 
A HE A CODE SIS 
SIS-0861 
August 
1968 
Mr. N. H. Browning, Jr. 
Executive Vice President 
Belt Valley Bank 
Belt, Montana 
Dear Mr. Browning: 
Acting on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, this bank, pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, approves for Belt 
Valley Bank, Belt, Montana, an investment of not more than 
$115,000 in bank premises. The approved amount includes 
$7,709 for unanticipated construction costs to exceed present 
estimates. , 
Very truly yours, 
LGG:B 
L. G. Gable 
Vice President 
