MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 2, 1970 

1975 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 2, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

1976 
7/2/70 
-2-
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
New Jersey Bank National Association. A letter to New Jersey 
Bank National Association, Clifton, New Jersey, granting permission 
for the establishment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, 
Governor Robertson dissenting and Governor Brimmer abstaining. A 
copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
2 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting con-
sent to the acquisition of shares of a holding 
company to be organized in southeast Asia, 
tentatively known as Southeast Asia International 
Limited, and to the continued holding of those 
shares after the holding company acquires shares 
of a merchant bank to be organized in Singapore. 
Letter to Marine Midland International 
3 
Corporation, New York, New York, interposing no 
objection if the corporation continues to have 
outstanding promissory notes with maturities in 
excess of one year issued to National & Overseas 
Finance Corporation. 
V 

±ir/?
7/2/70 
-3-
Item No. 
Letters to the Chairman of the Senate Committee 
4-5 
on the Judiciary regarding S. 3832, a bill "To 
prohibit false statements on loan and credit 
applications to institutions insured by the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and by the 
Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation," 
and S. 3833, a bill "To amend the Federal bank 
robbery statute to prohibit the destruction of 
banks or savings and loan associations." 
Commercial Bancorp. A draft of an order reflecting the Board's 
approval on June 25, 1970, of the application of Commercial Bancorp, 
Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of The First State Bank of 
Lantana, Lantana, Florida, had been distributed. 
The issuance of the order was authorized; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
Society Corporation. Drafts of an order and statement had 
been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on June 9, 1970, of 
the application of Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of The Farmers National Bank & Trust Company of Ashtabula, 
Ashtabula, Ohio. A dissenting statement by Governors Robertson and 
Brimmer had also been distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
are attached under Item No. 7, along with the dissenting statement. 
Revision of OTC margin stock list. In light of the discussion 
at the Board meeting on June 2, 1970, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation had reviewed its May 26 proposal relating to criteria for 

1978 
7/2/70 
-4-
removal of a stock from the list of over-the-counter stocks subject 
to margin requirements under Regulations G, T, and U. 
In a memorandum dated June 30, 1970, the Division recommended 
that the standards previously proposed for removal of a stock from 
the 1 ist be modified so that (1) the criterion as to continuous 
availability of price quotations would be applied as of the survey 
date rather than the date when the new list was approved for publica-
tion, and (2) the criterion relating to the number of market makers 
would take effect only when the number had declined to three or less 
in 20 out of each of four consecutive 26-week (survey) periods. 
Some members of the Board raised questions reflecting a 
degree of apprehension that even the revised standards for delisting 
were too harsh, particularly in terms of the requirements for market 
makers and the availability of price information. During the dis-
cussion, the staff suggested that the underlying frustration in this 
area might relate to the fact that the original list was restricted 
to a limited number of stocks and that the limits were by their very 
nature somewhat questionable. The basic problem, it was suggested, 
could not be overcome until such time as the Board considered an 
extension of the concept of the list. When the staff had had a chance, 
in the light of experience, to evaluate the program as it now existed, 
the Board should be in a better position to focus on the problems 
involved in expanding the list. 

1379 
7/2/70 
-5-
A specific question then was raised whether in determining 
the continuous availability to the public of price information a 
"pink sheet" listing might not be considered a reasonable alternative 
to the daily list of the National Association of Securities dealers 
that appears in the Wall Street Journal. After consideration of this 
question, it was suggested, by way of compromise, that the staff 
could accept as an operating instruction an understanding that once 
a stock had been added to the over-the-counter margin list, its 
inclusion in a "pink sheet" listing would be considered sufficient 
availability of price information to the public to prevent delisting. 
That suggestion met with general agreement. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the use of the revised 
maintenance (delisting) standards, as recommended by the staff and 
modified in the light of the discussion at this meeting. 
New York employee salary structure. In a memorandum dated 
July 1, 1970, the Division of Personnel Administration recommended 
approval of proposed increases in the clerical and nonclerical salary 
structures at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as well as an 
increase in the special maximum for professional-level positions in 
salary grade 16 from $26,000 to $27,500. However, the Division recom-
mended denial of the proposed clerical salary structure increase at 
the Buffalo Branch. 

1379 
7/2/70 
-6-
At today's meeting Mr. Hart requested that the latter 
recommendation be modified so as to defer action on the Buffalo 
Branch proposal pending further review. 
Following discussion, the Division's recommendations with 
respect to the salary structures at the head office and the special 
maximum for grade 16 were approved unanimously. The matter of the 
Buffalo Branch salary structure was referred to the Board's Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans for further review 
and appropriate action. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York is attached as Item No. 8. 
One-bank holding companies. In a memorandum dated July 1, 
1970, Mr. Holland reviewed the steps being taken by the staff task 
force on one-bank holding companies preparatory to implementing 
pending legislation if, as anticipated, the Board was designated as 
the regulatory authority. The memorandum recommended (1) that the 
initial guidelines for automatic approval of nonbank acquisitions be 
essentially conservative ones, and (2) that special priority be given 
to Projects 1 and 2, relating to the development of standards for 
determining appropriate lines of activities for banks, along with 
guidelines for automatic approval in certain circumstances, and to 
JU r v' "U r ; . , ; .-a 
. . . . . . . 
Project 3, regarding methods and standards for determining the "public 
interest" in cases not receiving automatic approval. 

1981 
7/2/70 
-7-
Following discussion, the recommendations were approved 
unanimously and it was understood that the staff would proceed 
accordingly. 
International operations of U.S. banks. Part II of the Study 
of International Operations of U.S. Banks undertaken by Mr. Dahl was 
directed primarily to the regulation and supervision of those opera-
tions and the regulatory problems encountered as those operations 
expanded. Copies of the study had been distributed under date of 
April 30, 1970. Specific recommendations were made for certain 
statutory and regulatory changes. 
At the beginning of the discussion Governor Robertson 
commented that the recommendations touched upon only a small portion 
of a broad field and that the Board, before amending its regulations 
or seeking legislative changes, should be sure in which direction it 
should be moving generally in regulating the international operations 
of U.S. banks. He suggested the appointment of a committee composed 
of persons outside the System to study the broad problem and bring 
back to the Board a report that would pinpoint the desired objectives. 
Governor Mitchell stated that, although he did not object to 
the course of action suggested by Governor Robertson, it might be 
difficult to find sufficiently knowledgeable persons outside the 
System who did not have special interests. It did not seem to him 

19«2 
7/2/70 
-8-
that it would be inconsistent with the broader objectives of such a 
study to consider Mr. Dahl's recommendations at this time. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the members of such a committee 
be drawn from Board and Reserve Bank talent. 
There followed an exchange of views based generally on Mr. 
Dahl's report during which members of the Board discussed problems 
seen to be emerging in connection with the operations of U.S. banks 
abroad and commented on ways in which they felt that those problems 
might be dealt with within a regulatory framework. 
Governor Sherrill then reverted to the comments that had been 
made earlier with regard to the need for further study and expressed 
the view that, while the Dahl recommendations were useful in the con-
text of the present methods of operation, the overriding need was to 
determine the longer-range course of action that the Board should 
take. He suggested that the reaching of such a determination might 
be aided by the use of a two-phased approach. The first step might 
be the formation of a planning group to lay out the areas that needed 
to be studied and the types of decisions that needed to be made. At 
this juncture, it was not clear to him, at least, just what the main 
issues were. After the issues had been defined, the second phase of 
the study could be undertaken. 
Governor Sherrill added that it was his impression that U.S. 
banks operating internationally were fairly clear with respect to 

1^83 
7/2/70 
-9-
their short-term goals but not so clear when it came to their long-term 
objectives. Governor Brimmer responded that at least three of the 
large banks had projected long-term goals and that he understood each 
of them would be glad to make a presentation to the Board. Governor 
Sherrill agreed that such a presentation might be a useful input in 
the course of a study such as he had in mind. 
After some further discussion along these lines, a consensus 
was reached that as a first step a team, drawn principally from the 
Board's staff, should be put together to define the issues that needed 
to be studied and submit to the Board for consideration a proposal for 
conducting a study of those issues. Governor Robertson suggested that 
Governor Sherrill and other interested members of the Board might con-
sult with the staff regarding the establishment of such a team and 
initiation of the first phase of the contemplated study. Members of 
the Board expressed their general agreement with proceeding in such 
manner. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that although it was apparent 
that the Board was not yet ready to act on the specific recommendations 
contained in Mr. Dahl's report, an exchange of views concerning them 
might be useful. 
The comments that followed reflected a general view that the 
recommended statutory changes, while appropriate, were too narrow in 
scope to warrant seeking legislation at this time. Likewise, it was 
the general view that the recommendations that did not require the 

mm 
7/2/70 
-10-
enactment of legislation could be deferred for further consideration 
in the light of the study that had just been agreed upon. 
One of the areas in which the Dahl study suggested that no 
change was called for related to banking operations in the United 
States of corporations engaged in foreign banking and financing. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that the so-called Bank of America amend-
ment being considered in connection with pending one-bank holding 
company legislation was pertinent, and question was raised whether 
action should be taken to attempt to defeat the amendment. After 
Mr. Cardon had summarized the provisions of the amendment, there was 
some discussion of whether the inherent conflict between those pro-
visions and administration of the Edge Act should be called to the 
attention of the Banking and Currency Committees, but it was the 
consensus that no such action should be taken at this time. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Financial developments. Members of the staff reported informally 
on continuing developments in the commercial paper market, their com-
ments indicating that in general conditions appeared somewhat improved 
yesterday from the day previously. They also, however, made reference 
to one or two particular cases in which the companies concerned were 
understood to be experiencing further difficulties in rolling over 
their maturing paper. 

1985 
7/2/70 
-11-
All staff members except Messrs. Holland and Frederic Solomon 
then withdrew. 
Governor Robertson returned to the discussion that had taken 
place earlier in the meeting concerning how to organize the intended 
further study of the proper scope of international operations of 
U.S. banks. It was agreed that the specifications for the study 
should be drawn up by a staff group representing broad and varied 
interests. Mr. Holland was directed to organize such a group, con-
sulting as appropriate with interested members of the Board. The 
planning group was to report back to the Board with a plan worked out 
for the further study, and also to develop arrangements for a fall 
seminar of academic and banking experts on the subject. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
• 
' ''.i - :;* 
i ; , i..v, 
Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/2/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1970. 
New Jersey Bank National Association, 
1184 Main Avenue, 
Clifton, New Jersey. 
07015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to New Jersey Bank National Association, 
Clifton, New Jersey, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions 
of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local, public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under con-
tract by another party. In view of the special character of this 
operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject to continuing 
observation and review by the Board and after due notice may be 
withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission is also granted on 
the condition that adequate information covering the branch's opera-
tions will be maintained at your head office and will be available 
to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should 
be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods 
of operation, including changes in any contract under which services 
are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before July 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 

11)87 
New Jersey Bank National Association 
_2-
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Section 213.7 
of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions is to al-
low foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad with 
foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and continues 
to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits 
by United States residents at foreign branches of United States banks 
unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary 
purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions out-
side the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated' 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the 
Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments 
on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with the under-
standing that in the conduct of the branch's operations maximum 
reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the United 
States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment required 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and that due consid-
eration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1388 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
< o V c o V a - . 
o f t h l 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7 / 2 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1970. 
Continental International Finance Corporation, 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 5, 1970, the Board 
oi Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CIFC") to pur-
chase and hold*50 per cent of the shares of a holding company to 
oe organized in southeast Asia, tentatively known as "Southeast 
t ^ n *^ernational Limited" ("SAIL"), at a cost of approximately 
, 
>UU0> Provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
n f C A T T , T h c Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
oi bAlL by CIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) 
(2) 
(3) 
That CIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly 
any shares of stock of SAIL if SAIL at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Re-
serve Act could, with the consent of the Board of 
Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if SAIL es-
tablishes any branch or agency or takes any action 
or undertakes any operation in Singapore or else-
where, in any manner, which at the time would not 
be permissible to CIFC; 
That when required by the Board of Governors, CIFC 
vill furnish the Board with such reports regardin* 
the activities of SAIL as it may require from time 
to time; and 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by SAIL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if SAIL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 

1989 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation 
-2-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Asso-
ciation, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of SAIL. 
The Board of Governors also grants consent for CIFC to 
continue to hold the shares of SAIL after SAIL acquires up to 45 per-
cent of the shares of a merchant bank to be formed in Singapore, 
tentatively known as "Continental Merchant Bank", at a cost of ap-
proximately $1,500,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent for the investment in SAIL is given 
with the understanding that the investment will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank International, 
New York, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

19S0 
E D A R D OF G D V E R N G R 5 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7 / 2 / 7 0 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1970. 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
250 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letters of May 6 
and June 5, 1969, regarding your Corporation's issuance, 
without the prior approval of the Board, of promissory 
notes with maturities in excess of one year. 
It is recognized that such issuance was part of 
a salvage operation undertaken to prevent loss on a debt 
previously contracted and, in the circumstances, the Board 
will interpose no objection if your Corporation continues 
to have outstanding the described notes, totaling Can.$442 500 
issued to National & Overseas Finance Corporation. Your 
attention is called to the fact that, regardless of circum-
stances, Section 211.4 of Regulation K requires the prior 
consent of the Board before a Corporation issues promis-
sory notes with maturities in excess of one year, or bonds 
debentures, and similar obligations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

1391 
( w . 
liiffMl: 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 4 
7/2/70 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 7, 1970 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland, 
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, Dc C0 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
„, „ 
1 h a v G y°ur l e t t e r of May 26, 1970, requesting the views of 
the Board on 3. 3832, a bill "To prohibit false statements on loan and 
credit applications to institutions insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance 
Corporation." 
_ 
Section 1014 of Title 18, United States Code, now makes it 
a federal crime for any person knowingly to make a false statement or 
X , l u y 
t 0 ° v e r v a l u e property on an application or in an agreement 
tor the extension of credit from a number of categories of financial 
institution*. S. 3832 would expand section 1014 to cover, as additional 
i n S U r e d b y t h G F e d e r a l D e p ° s i t d u r a n c e CorP°~ 
ration oi the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. 
_ 
The Board is concerned with any danger of loss of funds by 
ment ^ t U t * o n s f h r o u§ h 
and, accordingly, it would favor enact-
penaltfpQ t-h • ® 1 S 
' It may be that by providing Federal criminal 
penalties this measure will tend to deter persons from making false 
i n s t i l 
° n T 
C r e d i t aPP l i c a t i°ns to Federally-insured financial 
3 
° n S' f n d th
v
US P r o t e c t ^ e institutions from the losses that may 
D e occasioned by such misrepresentations. 
A s a technical comment, it is suggested that the quotation 
marks on line 7 before the word "bank" be stricken. They were 
apparently included inadvertently. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

Item No. 5 
7/2/70 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 7, 1970 
The Honorable James 0. Eastland, 
Chairman, Committee on the Judiciary, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I have your letter of May 26, 1970, requesting the views 
of the Board on S. 3833, a bill "To amend the Federal bank robbery 
statute to prohibit the destruction of banks or savings and loan 
associations." The bill would make it a Federal crime for any person 
willfully to set fire to, burn, destroy, or wreck any bank or any 
savings and loan association, or willfully to attempt to do any of 
the aforesaid acts. 
While the Board is not responsible for the enforcement of 
the so-called Federal bank robbery statute, the Board has been con-
sistently concerned with the safety of bank premises and bank property 
and, accordingly, it would favor enactment of this legislation. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
J. L, Robertson 

19P3 
Item No. 6 
7/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCIAL BANCORP, INC., 
Miami, Florida, 
for approval of the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The First State Bank of 
Lantana, Lantana, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF 
BANK STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Commercial Bancorp, Inc., 
Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The First State Bank of Lantana, Lantana, 
Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

1994 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 30, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6881), provid-
ing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant has four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
of $135 million - about 1 per cent of the total deposits in the State. 
It is the fifteenth largest banking organization and thirteenth largest 
bank holding company in Florida. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
1969, adjusted to reflect holding company acquisitions approved by the 
Board to date.) Bank, with deposits of $10.3 million, ranks 22nd in 
size among 30 banks in Palm Beach County. Applicant presently has a 
subsidiary in the City of Palm Beach and, upon acquisition of Bank, 
would become the fourth largest banking organization in the County, with 
control of 7.8 per cent of County deposits. The present and proposed 
County subsidiaries are located 12 miles apart; there are six banks 

1995 
-3-
located in the intervening area, and the record indicates that the two 
banks are not significant competitors. The three other subsidiaries of 
Applicant are located in the Miami area, more than 50 miles from Lantana. 
It appears that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not eliminate 
existing competition, foreclose significant potential competition, nor 
have any undue adverse effects on other banks in the area involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in 
any relevant area. On the record in this matter, the banking factors 
are regarded as consistent with approval of the application as they 
pertain to Applicant and its subsidiaries, and lend some weight in favor 
of such action as they relate to Bank, since the acquisition will solve 
a management succession problem at Bank. Applicant proposes to improve 
the quality and quantity of banking services performed by Bank, which 
should benefit the community served by Bank. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the Board's findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 

1996 
-4-
unless such period shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 2, 1970. 
Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1997 
Item No. 7 
7/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, 
Cleveland, Ohio, 
for approval of acquisition of up to 
100 per cent (less directors' quali-
fying shares) of the voting shares 
of The Farmers National Bank & Trust 
Company of Ashtabula, Ashtabula, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Society 
Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, for the Board's prior approval of 
the acquisition of up to 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of The Farmers National Bank & Trust 
Company of Ashtabula, Ashtabula, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommeded 
approval of the application. 

-2-
1998 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 16, 1970 (35 Federal Register 6221), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and all those received have been 
considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 2, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Vice Chairman Robertson 
and Governor Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1999 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
SOCIETY CORPORATION, CLEVELAND, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FARMERS NATIONAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY OF ASHTABULA, ASHTABULA, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio ("Applicant"), a registered 
bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of up to 100 per cent 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of The Farmers 
National Bank & Trust Company of Ashtabula, Ashtabula, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and recommen-
dation were requested. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

-2-
2000 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into considera 
tion the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the fifth largest banking organization and the second largest bank 
holding company in Ohio, controls six banks with aggregate deposits of 
$904 million, representing 4.5 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
1/ 
in the State. 
Upon acquisition of Bank ($55 million deposits), 
Applicant would control 4.7 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
in the State; and its position relative to other banking organizations 
and holding companies would otherwise remain unchanged. 
Bank, with eight offices, is the largest of three banks 
headquartered in the City of Ashtabula, and of four banks in 
Ashtabula County. It faces considerable competition from the 
1./ All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

2001 
-3-
reraaining banks in the County, the largest of which has deposits of 
$53 million. All four banks are competitive and aggressive institu-
tions and have exhibited satisfactory growth. In addition to the 
23 offices of these four banks, six savings and loan associations, 
with aggregate resources of $143 million, serve the County's 100,000 
residents. The Board is of the view that Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would have little effect on the competitive situation in Ashtabula 
or Ashtabula County. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary bank, Western Reserve Bank 
of Lake County ($18 million deposits) is headquartered in Painesville, 
28 miles west of Ashtabula. The nearest branch of that bank is only 
five miles from Bank's Geneva office. Despite this geographic proxi-
mity, because of established trade patterns, Western Reserve Bank and 
Bank each draws less than 2 per cent of its deposits, and less than 
4 per cent of its loans, from the area primarily served by the other 
bank. Applicant's other subsidiaries are located more than 50 miles 
from Bank, and do not compete with Bank to any significant degree. 
In view of the above, and considering the distance between 
Bank and Applicant's other subsidiaries, it does not appear that any 
significant competition would be eliminated by consummation of the 
Present proposal. The same considerations, in addition to restrictive 
State law relating to branches, appear to preclude the likelihood that 
such competition would develop between Bank and those subsidiaries 
in the future. 

2002 
-4-
In evaluating the potential for future competition between Bank 
and Applicant, the Board has considered whether the possibility exists 
that Applicant might enter into competition in Ashtabula County through 
the alternative means of establishment of a new bank or the acquisition 
of one of the smaller area banks. De novo entry is considered relatively 
unattractive, and therefore unlikely, since the population per banking 
office is almost one-third lower than the State average (4,700 as com-
pared to 6,703). It is questionable whether preferable alternative 
acquisitions are possible: the difference in size between Bank and the 
second largest bank in Ashtabula is not so great as to make acquisition 
of the latter a preferable means of entry; the smallest bank in the 
County is not favorably located with regard to full participation in 
the County's economy. Moreover, none of the three banks has disclosed 
any interest in becoming affiliated with a holding company. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of 
Bank would not eliminate existing competition or foreclose potential 
competition, and would have no significant impact upon the degree of 
concentration of banking resources in any relevant market. On the 
record before the Board, it is concluded that the proposed acquisition 
will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combina-
tion or conspiracy to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area. Approval of the application would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in 
any section of the country. 

-5-
2003 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank 
is satisfactory. Management of Applicant and its subsidiaries is 
competent, and their prospects are regarded as favorable. Bank's 
financial condition is satisfactory; its management, however, lacks 
depth and experience, and its prospects would be improved by the 
proposed affiliation. 
These considerations are consistent with approval of the 
present application, as they relate to Applicant and its subsidiaries, 
and lend some support for such action as they relate to Bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities concerned. -
Consummation of the proposal would not affect the convenience or needs 
of customers served by Applicant's present subsidiary banks. 
In general, the banking needs of Ashtabula County have been 
adequately served by banks located there. Ashtabula, 57 miles north-
east of Cleveland and 45 miles west of Erie, Pennsylvania, is the 
county seat of Ashtabula County. The County's economy is diversified 
and the city is one of the most convenient lake ports to the steel 
producing centers of Pittsburgh and Youngstown. 
On consummation of the acquisition, Bank, drawing on the 
resources of Applicant, would offer the facilities of the foreign 
department of Applicant's lead bank, together with such services as 
data processing and account reconciliation. Applicant plans to revise 

2004 
-6-
Bank's loan policies to more actively solicit commercial and industrial 
loans. Additionally, greater facility for arranging participations 
with Applicant's other subsidiaries would enable Bank to better meet 
credit needs beyond its lending capacity. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities served by Bank provide some weight in favor of 
approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. -On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that 
the application should be approved. 
July 2, 1970 

2005 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
The proposed acquisition of the largest bank in Ashtabula 
County by a large and aggressive banking organization will likely 
perpetuate, or even aggravate, an unbalanced market structure in that 
area, to the detriment of actual and potential competition. There are 
no other considerations presented in the record which outweigh this 
adverse competitive effect, and the application should therefore be 
denied. 
Ashtabula County is a highly concentrated market: there 
are only four banks in the area, serving a population of over 100,000, 
and the two largest of these control 86 per cent of the deposits in 
1/ 
the market. 
Acquisition of the largest bank (44 per cent of deposits) 
in that market by the second largest bank holding company in the State 
will not only remove all incentive Applicant might otherwise have to 
seek entry through competitively preferable means, but will eliminate 
a vehicle through which smaller organizations might have achieved entry. 
In addition, the dominant competitive position which Applicant will 
enjoy may tend to discourage entry by other potential competitors. 
Competition functions best when there are several alternative 
sources of service, no one of which possesses a dominant market position. 
The Board's responsibility to control the expansion of bank holding 
1/ The Board's majority notes the presence of six savings and loan 
associations in the market. While these institutions are probably 
effective in performing some of the services which banks also perform, 
our concern - and that of the Act - is with respect to the commercial 
banking line of commerce and those services which only commercial banks 
Perform to any significant extent, particularly demand deposits and 
small business loans. 

2006 
-2-
companies so as to preserve and promote banking competition dictates 
that, absent outweighing considerations, it not approve any proposal 
which would tend to make less likely the development of such a market. 
There is no evidence in the record of benefits to the public which 
warrant approval of an acquisition which would have the clearly adverse 
competitive effects of Applicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, we would deny the application. 
tfuly 2, 1970. 

2007 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 8 
7/2/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
RES*5 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 2, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has today approved the following minimum 
and maximum salaries for the respective grades of the emplovee salary 
structures at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, as requested by you 
effective July 2, 1970: 
' 
New York 
Clerical 
Non-Clerica 1 
Grade 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Minimum 
Max imum 
1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
7 
8 
9 
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
15 
16 
$ 3,900 
$ 5,250 
4,316 
5,800 
4,732 
6,400 
5,252 
7,080 
5,772 
7,800 
6,370 
8,600 
7,020 
9,470 
7,720 
10,430 
8,500 
11,470 
9,380 
12,670 
10,360 
14,000 
11,500 
15,500 
12,760 
17,230 
14,200 
19,160 
15,830 
21,370 
18,400 
24,850 
$ 3,666 
$ 4,946 
3,978 
5,366 
4,316 
5,824 
4,706 
6,350 
5,174 
6,980 
5,733 
7,740 
6,409 
8,650 
7,090 
9,570 
7,900 
10,670 
8,780 
11,850 
9,760 
13,175 

HOARD O F GDVEFiNDRS 
GF THE FEDERAL RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
2 0 0 8 
Mr. T'reiber 
- 2 -
Salaries should be paid to employees within the limits specified 
for the grades in which their respective positions are classified. All 
employees whose salaries are below the minimum of their grades as a result 
of the structure increases should be brought within appropriate ranges not 
later than three months after the effective date of the new structures. 
The Board also approves your request for an increase in the specia 
maximum for professional level positions in Salary Grade 16 from $26,000 
to $27,500. 
The Board has decided, however, to refer your proposal for a 
salary structure adjustment at the Buffalo Branch to the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans for further study. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
