Minutes for April 13, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office, Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

1402 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, April 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Forrestal, Plotkin, and Shuter 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, and Lyon of the 
Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Long Island Trust Company, Garden 
1 
City, New York, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Hauppauge, Town of Smithtown, 
Suffolk County. 

14.03 
4/13/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Ewing Bank and Trust Company, Ewing 
2 
Township, New Jersey, approving the establish-
ment of a branch at 1600 North Olden Avenue 
Extension, Ewing Township. 
Letter to Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, 
3 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment of 
a branch in Davisville, Warminster Township, 
Bucks County. 
Letter to Genesee Merchants Bank 6c Trust Co., 
4 
Flint, Michigan, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Flint Township, Genesee County. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
5 
New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of additional shares of Bancom 
Development Corporation, Makati, Philippines. 
Extension of time to file registration statements (Item No. 6). 
There had been distributed a draft of letter to counsel for Bank of 
Nutley, Nutley, New Jersey, that would grant a requested extension of 
time beyond April 30, 1967, within which to file a registration state-
ment pursuant to section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks. A proposed merger 
of Bank of Nutley into a national bank was now pending. 
Mr. Plotkin described four categories of circumstances that had 
led or might be expected to lead to requests by State member banks with 
more than 500 shareholders, but less than 750, for an extension of time 
beyond April 30 within which to file their registration statements. He 
suggested that the Board authorize the granting of requests for exten-
sions of time for a period not to exceed 60 days without specific Board 

1404. 
4/13/67 
-3-
action in each case, provided there were no unusual circumstances 
involved. 
Following discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 
letter to counsel for Bank of Nutley, a copy of which is attached as 
Item No. 6. The Board also authorized the procedure suggested by 
Mr. Plotkin with respect to other requests for extensions of time. 
Report on competitive factors. A modification of the conclu-
sion having been agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to the 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The 
Elkins Park National Bank, Elkins Park, Pennsylvania, with Industrial 
Valley Bank and Trust Company, Jenkintown, Pennsylvania. In the form 
in which approved, the conclusion read as follows: 
There are other banking facilities located between 
offices of The Elkins Park National Bank and Industrial 
Valley Bank and Trust Company, Jenkintown, and consumma-
tion of the proposed merger would eliminate little, if 
any, competition existing between them. Moreover, as a 
result of serious asset and liquidity problems, the 
ability of The Elkins Park National Bank to compete on 
an effective basis has been greatly reduced. 
The overall effect of the proposal on competition 
would not be significantly adverse. 
Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation (Items 7-8). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on March 20, 1967, of the application of First 
Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares 
of Waunakee State Bank, Waunakee, Wisconsin. 

14,05 
4/13/67 
-4-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 7 and 8. 
Messrs. Egertson, Cloth, Plotkin, Shuter, Burton, and Lyon with-
drew from the meeting at this point. 
Act of September 21, 1966. Public Law 89-597, an Act to pro-
vide for the more flexible regulation of maximum rates of interest or 
dividends payable by banks and certain other financial institutions on 
deposits or share accounts, to authorize higher reserve requirements 
on time deposits at member banks, to authorize open market operations 
in agency issues by the Federal Reserve Banks, and for other purposes 
was enacted into law effective September 21, 1966, for a one-year 
period. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated April 11, 1967, relating to a request from the Bureau 
of the Budget for the views of the Board on a Treasury draft bill that 
would make permanent the Act of September 21, 1966. 
In addition to the general question whether the Board favored 
permanent legislation of this character, the memorandum pointed up 
several specific questions for Board consideration. These included 
(1) whether the "sense of Congress" provision in section 1 of the Act 
of September 21, 1966, which provides that the financial regulatory 
agencies in implementing their powers under the law "shall take action 
to bring about the reduction of interest rates to the maximum extent 

1 4 0 6 . 
4/13/67 
-3-
feasible in the light of prevailing money market and general economic 
conditions" should be retained; (2) whether the Act, if made permanent, 
should be amended to include authority for the regulatory agencies to 
prescribe regulations concerning the compounding of interest and the 
allowance of grace periods; and (3) whether the draft bill should be 
amended to authorize Federal Reserve Banks to accept, as collateral to 
advances, "any obligation which is a direct obligation of, or fully 
guaranteed as to principal and interest by, any agency of the United 
States." The memorandum suggested that the Board might consider it 
desirable to recommend an amendment to the Treasury bill that would 
implement the last point. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter to the Bureau 
of the Budget that would state that the Board was in favor of the objec-
tive of the Treasury bill. The draft reply would include a proposed 
amendment to implement the suggestion of the Legal Division in regard 
to agency issues. 
Under date of April 12, 1967, there had been distributed for 
Board consideration an alternative amendment suggested by Governor 
Robertson that would delete section 1, the "sense of Congress" provi-
sion, so that it would not be made permanent. 
In discussion, Governor Robertson expressed the view that the 
"sense of Congress" provision in Public Law 89-597 was no longer appro-
priate. The economic climate had changed and would continue to change, 

7. 
4/13/67 
-3-
and the provision should not properly be included in a permanent 
statute. 
With respect to the question whether permanent legislation 
should include authority for the regulatory agencies to prescribe 
regulations concerning the compounding of interest and the allowance 
of grace periods, Governor Robertson expressed the view that such 
statutory authority, suggested by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, 
was not needed and said he would prefer not to raise the issue at 
this time. 
On the suggestion that the draft bill be amended to authorize 
Reserve Banks to accept agency obligations as collateral to advances, 
Governor Robertson noted that such a recommendation might raise ques-
tions with respect to the need for passage of S. 966, the so-called 
"eligible paper" bill, which had passed the Senate and was now pending 
before the House. He thought the prospect for enactment of S. 966 was 
good; if it was enacted, that would take care of the situation with 
respect to agency obligations. 
Chairman Martin said he was personally not in favor of the 
proposed bill to make permanent the Act of September 21, 1966. If, 
however, the Board was going to go along with it, he thought the point 
was well taken in the Legal Division's memorandum that a recommenda-
tion on the part of the Board that section 1 not be made permanent 
might give rise to criticism that the Board was in favor of high inter-
est rates. Given the thesis that the Board favored as low interest 

1408. 
4/13/67 
-3-
rates as possible without producing inflation, he did not see how the 
Board would be injured particularly by inclusion of the "sense of 
Congress" provision. 
Governor Robertson said it was his belief that Chairman Martin 
was talking about low interest rates generally, while the "sense of 
Congress" clause related to interest rate ceilings. Inclusion of the 
provision on a permanent basis might put pressure on the Board, on a 
continuing basis, to reduce such ceilings. 
Mr. Molony commented that it was his understanding that 
Mr. Cardon agreed with the Legal Division that the Board might be sub-
ject to criticism as being in favor of high interest rates if it 
opposed the retention of the "sense of Congress" clause. 
Governor Robertson replied that it seemed to him it would be 
better to face up to the problem now than to have the "sense of Congress" 
clause constantly confronting the Board. 
In response to an inquiry as to the time element involved, 
Mr. Hackley stated that the Budget Bureau had requested a reply by 
April 14. Mr. Hackley went on to mention that the legislation, except 
for section 1, included provisions that the Board had endorsed in the 
past. Among other things, the establishment of interest rate ceilings 
was made permissive rather than mandatory, and additional flexibility 
in the establishment of such ceilings was provided. 

1409. 
4/13/67 
-3-
Governor Robertson recalled that the question of extending the 
Act of September 21, 1966, had been discussed by the Coordinating Com-
mittee on Bank Regulation, where a view was presented that it would 
seem advisable to gain as much experience as possible under the current 
legislation before deciding on a course of action. The Treasury, how-
ever, had moved forward with its legislative recommendation. Governor 
Robertson felt that additional Board discussion, with all members 
present if possible, would be desirable before a reply was sent to the 
Budget Bureau. 
Governor Mitchell said it appeared that a matter of strategy 
was involved. He wondered whether the Treasury could be persuaded that 
the proposed legislation was not necessary; or at least that it should 
be limited in scope. He was inclined to agree with Governor Robertson 
that if the "sense of Congress" provision were made permanent, that 
could present difficulties for the Board. However, he was not sure how 
the Board might best proceed to try to have the proposed bill changed. 
Governor Shepardson noted that Chairman Horne of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board appeared to be espousing use of the present 
statute to reduce ceilings now. While many would like to see mortgage 
rates somewhat lower, he did not think the way to bring this about was 
to try to push them down by reducing the interest or dividend rate 
ceilings. He recognized that the advancing of an argument against the 
"sense of Congress" provision might seem to place the Board in the 

1410. 
4/13/67 
-3-
position of wanting higher interest rates, but its continuation could 
present recurring problems. 
Question was raised whether the filing of the proposed bill 
appeared to have been at the initiative of the Treasury or whether it 
reflected Congressional pressure, and Mr. Forrestal said he understood 
the initiative had come from the Treasury. He went on to say that a 
Treasury staff source had indicated to him that the possible deletion 
of section 1 was considered. As a matter of tactics, however, the 
Treasury reportedly felt it preferable not to make such a recommenda-
tion. Also, since the language of the provision called for a reduction 
of interest rates to the maximum extent feasible "in the light of 
prevailing money market and general economic conditions," there was a 
question whether it would do any harm. 
Chairman Martin commented that he felt it would be advisable 
to defer a reply to the Budget Bureau, since the proposed legislation 
was important. He repeated that he did not care for the legislation, 
although it would be helpful to have standby authority for fixing 
interest rate ceilings. 
Governor Shepardson noted that if the Act of September 21, 
1966, were allowed to expire the law would revert to its previous 
status. Some degree of flexibility in the establishment of interest 
rate ceilings would be lost, and the establishment of such ceilings 
would be mandatory. 

1411. 
4/13/67 
- 3 -
Ghairman Martin then suggested that further consideration of 
the matter be deferred pending the availability of additional members 
of the Board, by which time there would have been an opportunity for 
discussion with the Treasury, and no objection was indicated. 
Application of Fidelity International Corporation (Items 9-10). 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on April 11, 1967, there 
had been distributed (1) a revised draft of letter to The Fidelity 
International Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a section 25(a) 
corporation, granting consent to its application to acquire up to 
35 per cent of the common shares of Balthex International, Inc., also 
of Philadelphia; and (2) a draft of an interpretation concerning the 
matter that could be published in the Federal Register and the Federal 
Reserve Bulletin. 
The transmittal of the letter to Fidelity International Corpo-
ration was authorized, together with publication of the interpretation. 
Copies of the letter and interpretation are attached as Items 9 and 10, 
respectively. 
Application of 80 per cent limitation (Item No. 11). Mr. 
She rman referred to the provision in the Rules and Regulations of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks whereby a member's 
pension together with annuity provided by his required contributions 
with regular interest thereon and his primary Federal and Old Age 
Insurance Benefits under the Social Security Act in effect at the date 

1 4 1 2 . 
4/13/67 
- 3 -
of his retirement shall not exceed 80 per cent of his final average 
salary. 
Mr. Sherman said it now appeared that in computing payments 
under the Social Security Act, the amount payable at the time of 
retirement was based on the salary received at the end of the year 
preceding retirement. The following year the allowance was recalcu-
lated on the basis of the salary received in the year in which the 
member retired. If a salary promotion had been received during that 
year, an increase in retirement allowance would be reflected in the 
amount paid by Social Security, with consequent payment to the member 
of a total retirement allowance slightly in excess of the 80 per cent 
limitation. 
A survey conducted by the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks of pensions paid members who had retired in a recent 
year revealed only a small number of cases where allowances would 
exceed the 80 per cent limitation, and the excesses would be in very 
small amounts. Accordingly, the Retirement System proposed to use as 
a base in calculating allowances under the 80 per cent limitation the 
Social Security allowance payable at the time a member retired, with 
no later recalculation. 
Mr. Sherman said he had discussed the situation with Governors 
Shepardson and Maisel, and with Mr. Johnson, none of whom saw reason 
to object to the proposed procedure. 

1413. 
4/13/67 
- 3 -
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to the sending 
of a letter to the Secretary of the Retirement System that would inter-
pose no objection. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 11. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 12) approving the appointment of Charles J. Walker and Gary R. 
Hickory as examiners. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Norman K. Barnes as Summer Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Joseph E. Burns as Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $12,822, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. (It was understood that if Mr. Burns had not com-
pleted all requirements for his Ph.D. degree, he would enter upon duty 
at the salary rate of $11,741. It was also understood that he would 
be given the benefit of any general pay increase that might occur 
between now and the date of entrance upon duty and that the Board would 
pay the cost of transporting his household effects and his transporta-
tion to Washington, D. C., with Eugene, Oregon, as the base point.) 
Salary increase 
Carlton C. Poling, Assistant Supervisor, Motor Transport Unit, 
Division of Administrative Services, from $6,302 to $6,594 per annum, 
effective May 7, 1967. 
Advance of sick leave 
Helen M. Lasko, Relief Cook, Division of Administrative Services, 
for a period of 26 days beginning April 25, 1967. 

1414. 
4/13/67 
- 3 -
Advance of sick leave (continued) 
Samie Reed, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, for a 
period of 26 days beginning April 19, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Jane W. Ballard, Indexing and Reference Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary, effective the close of business May 19, 1967. 
Ferol A. Beach, Stenographer, Divison of Bank Operations, effec-
tive the close of business April 22, 1967. 
Pursuant to the authority granted by the 
Board at today's meeting, a letter was sent 
today to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
requesting that Southern Arizona Bank and 
Trust Company, Tucson, Arizona, be advised 
that it had been granted an extension of time 
to file a registration statement pursuant to 
section 12(g) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 and Regulation F, Securities of Member 
State Banks, until 60 days after the date of 
the Board's decision on its application for 
exemption from registration. 
. t 
Secretary 

1415 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Long Island Trust Company, 
Garden City, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Long Island Trust 
Company, Garden City, New York, of a branch at the south-
west corner of the intersection of Engineers Road and 
Old Willets Path, Hauppauge (unincorporated area), Town 
of Smithtown, Suffolk County, New York, provided the 
branch is established within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1416 
•ffei^V 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/13/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Ewing Bank and Trust Company, 
Ewing Township, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Ewing Bank and Trust 
Company, Ewing Township, New Jersey, of a branch at 1600 
North Olden Avenue Extension, Ewing Township, Mercer 
County, New Jersey, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

1417 
BDARD D F GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
DF THE 
4/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Girard Trust Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of a branch in the Davisville 
Shopping Center on the northwest corner of the intersection 
of Street and Davisville Roads, Davisville, Warminster 
Township, Bucks County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
o'o? coV* • 

1418 
V. 
s; 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/13/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Genesee Merchants Bank 
& Trust Co., 
Flint, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Genesee Merchants 
Bank & Trust Co., Flint, Michigan, of a branch at 4500 
Miller Road, Flint Township, Genesee County, Michigan, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

BDARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No- 
5 
• F THE 
4/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 13, 1967, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold additional shares of Bancom Develop-
ment Corporation, Makati, Philippines, at a cost of 
approximately US$216,000, provided such shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined 
with other foreign loans and investments of your Corpora-
tion and Bankers Trust Company, will not cause the total 
of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1420 
o f c o & . 
*4i re^V 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 6 
4/13/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967 
Smith, Kramer & Morrison, 
810 Broad Street, 
Newark, New Jersey. 07102 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with your request of April 6, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants an extension of time, until June 30, 
1967, for Bank of Nutley, Nutley, New Jersey, to file a regis-
tration statement pursuant to section 12(g) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934. 
If the bank is merged into another institution prior 
to the specified date, no registration statement will be required 
to be filed with respect to its securities. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary 

1421 
Item No. 1 
4/13/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D# C# 
In the Matter of the Application of 
plRST WISCONSIN BANICSHARES CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
c^nt or more of the outstanding voting 
shares of Waunalcee State Bank, Waunakee, 
Wisconsin, 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), 
section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
a n application by First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's approval 
o f the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares 
°f Waunakee State Bank, Waunakee, Wisconsin, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of 
t h e application was given to the Commissioner of Banks for the State of 
Wisconsin with a request for his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
that he had no objection to approval of the application. 

- 2 -
1422 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 15, 1967 (32 Federal Register 2915), pro-
viding an opportunity for submission of comments and views regarding the 
Proposed acquisition. A copy of the application was forwarded to the 
Apartment of Justice for its consideration. The time for filing such 
Comments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
bV the Board. 
IT IS ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement 
this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided 
t-hat the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day after the date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of April, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, and 
Governors Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin, 
(Signed) Ilerritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

23 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
item No 
4/13/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY FIRST WISCONSIN BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
WAUNAKEE STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
( 'Applicant") , a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
^56, as amended ("the Act"), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
8n 
per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of Waunakee State Bank, 
IJaunakee, Wisconsin ("Bank"). Applicant controls nine banks with 25 offices 
a u d aggregate deposits of $1.1 billion at June 30, 1966." Bank, which 
°perates a single office in Waunakee, has deposits of $3.3 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Quired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Commissioner of 
B a n ks for the State of Wisconsin of receipt of the application and requested 
hi 
s views and recommendation thereon. In response, the Commissioner advised 
ttlat he would interpose no objection to Applicant's proposal. 
Statutory factors. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that the 
Bo 
a r d shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly, or 
banking data noted are as of this date, unless otherwise indicated. 

1424 
be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United 
States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition, the 
effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially to 
lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
banner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case, 
Board is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
Resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks con-
cetned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
banking organizations in the State of Wisconsin control $2.5 billion of 
deposits, or 38 per cent of the total deposits of all insured commercial 
^anks. The three largest of these 10 organizations, of which Applicant 
ranks first in size, control 30 per cent of such total deposits. Applicant, 
with nine subsidiary banks (25 offices), controls $1.1 billion of deposits, 
°r 3 per cent of the total banking offices and 17 per cent of the total 
j 
ePosits in the State. Applicant's share of the total deposits in the State 
increase but slightly - .05 per cent - upon consummation of its proposal. 
Bank is located in the village of Waunakee about 11 miles from 
th 
a e central business district of the State capital, Madison. Both Waunakee 
a 
Uci Madison are located in Dane County. Bank's primary service area, 
2*7—•— .. — 
V 
Area from which Bank derives 75 per cent of its total of deposits of 
ndividuals, partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits"). 

1425 
-3-
with an estimated population of 3,200, encompasses Waunalcee and the 
immediately surrounding rural area. Applicant's Madison subsidiary, with 
deposits of $119 million, is the largest of the 30 banks located in Dane 
County. Acquisition of Bank would increase Applicant's present control of 
^posits in Dane County (33 per cent) by 1 per cent. Within Bank's primary 
service area, there is located but one other bank, Farmers State Bank 
w 2 million of deposits). However, 17 other banking institutions, includ-
ing Applicant's Madison subsidiary, First National Bank of Madison ("First 
National' '), compete within Bank's service area. Applicant controls 39 per 
cent 0f the total deposits of the 19 banks competing in this area, a control 
would be increased by 1 per cent by consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
While the foregoing data reflect the significant degree to which 
applicant shares in the large organization control of the banking resources 
iri the State, the Board concludes that these data and other relevant facts 
o f record do not establish that Applicant's acquisition of Bank would result 
in a monopoly, or be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant 
a r ea of the State. 
About 10 per cent of Bank's IPC deposits originate within First 
National's primary service area. These deposits amounted to only ,3 per 
CGut of the total IPC deposits of First National. Conversely, First National 
de*ived deposits of $332,000 from the primary service area of Bank, amount-
to .4 per cent of its total IPC deposits and 13 per cent of the total 
0f such deposits held by Bank. With respect to competition for loans 

-3-
1426 
between First National and Bank, the record reflects that Bank derives 
about 1 per cent of its total of commercial loans from First National's 
service area, and approximately 19 per cent ($30,000) of its total of 
consumer loans.. First National derives .9 per cent of its commercial and 
industrial loans and #8 per cent of .its consumer loans from Bank's primary 
service area. Competition between the two banks for farm loans is negligible. 
Applicant's remaining subsidiary banks are located from 77 to 175 miles 
from Waunakee. Competition between Bank and any of these subsidiaries 
i s virtually nonexistent. 
It is reasonably concluded that no significant competition between 
Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries will be eliminated by consummation of 
Applicant's proposal. Nor, for reasons hereafter discussed, does it appear 
likely that any substantial competition will arise between Bank and Appli-
cant 's banks, the growth of which would be foreclosed by the proposed 
acquisition. 
Consideration of the probable impact of Applicant's acquisition 
o f Bank on other competing banks in the relevant area offers no bar to 
aPproval of this proposal. As earlier stated, the only other bank located 
Bank's primary service area is Farmers State Bank, The deposit and loan 
growth rate of Farmers State Bank in recent years compares favorably with 
^at of Bank. While Applicant's ownership of Bank may be expected to offer 
a n increased degree of competition to Farmers State Bank, the total of 
SUch competitive force is not reasonably anticipated to be unduly severe. 
Vith the possible exception of the impact on Lake City Bank, located 

7.5 miles southeast of Bank, Applicant's operation of Bank is reasonably 
anticipated to have the effect of stimulating competition with the re-
fining 17 banks competing in the relevant area. Lake City Bank has 
recently opened for business and its rate of growth may be somewhat slowed 
by Applicant's acquisition of Bank. This consequence is outweighed, in 
the Board's judgment, by the potential benefits, hereafter discussed, to 
b°th Bank and the public. In summary, the Board concludes, on the basis 
°f the record before it, that Bank's operation as part of Applicant's 
holding company system would not result in a substantial lessening of 
competition, nor tend to create a monopoly, or be in restraint of trade 
any relevant area. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Organized in 1929 as a bank holding company, Applicant has a history of 
s°und operation and growth. Its financial condition, and that of its 
subsidiary banks, is considered to be satisfactory. Applicant's prospects, 
directly related to the financial condition of its subsidiary banks, are 
favorable, as are the prospects of its banks. The management of Applicant 
and of its subsidiary banks is considered capable and experienced and in 
respects satisfactory. 
Bank was organized in 1902 and has a history of sound but 
c°nservative operation. Its general financial condition is considered 
Satisfactory. Under present ownership, Bank's prospects are considered 
°nlV fair. At the present time Bank's President, 31 years of age, and its 
Vice President are both inactive. Illness of operating personnel and 

disharmony between and among Bank's officers and directors have resulted 
in Bank being without continuous experienced operating management since 
early 1964. From June 1966 to date, active management of Bank has been 
responsibility of a cashier and director who is an employee of Applicant, 
^he record reflects that significant improvement in Bank's organization 
and operations has been effected by the individual supplied by Applicant. 
Applicant has agreed to leave this individual in the bank either until 
c°nsummation of this proposal or, in the event of denial, for a reasonable 
Period thereafter. 
It appears from the record that Bank's problems, managerial and 
°Perational, are principally the result of policy decisions formulated by 
Present ownership. While a substantial change in management policy would 
undoubtedly relieve a number of the bank's problems, there is no indication 
ttlat any such policy changes would occur if present ownership continues, 
NOr is there evidence that, with respect to alternatives for purchase, any 
SUch reasonable alternative exists to Applicant's proposal. Accordingly, 
tlle Board concludes that Applicant's proposal constitutes a certain and 
Mediate solution to Bank's management problem, a conclusion that is 
Sported by the evidence of recent improvement in Bank's operations under 
Applicant1 s guidance. The foregoing consideration favors approval of 
Applicantfs proposal. 
Convenience and needs of the area involved. - Waunakee is 
essentially an agriculturally oriented residential community. A majority 
i,:s wage earners are employed in Madison and commute there daily. The 

number of such commuters can reasonably be expected to increase substantially 
in the nextfew years as the economy of Madison expands. 
As earlier stated, there are 18 banks in addition to Bank competing 
within Bank's primary service area. These banks, ranging in deposit size 
from less than $1 million to $119 million, are presently serving the major 
banking needs of the residents and businesses of the Waunakee area, albeit 
less conveniently than would be the case under Applicant's proposal. Appli-
cant, through its ownership of Bank, would make conveniently available to 
the Waunakee area a number of services not now available from the two 
Waunakee banks. In addition, Applicant proposes to provide additional 
capital to Bank as may be required, which provision has particular signifi-
cance in relation to a need for physical expansion. These prospects, and 
that of the improvement in Bank's management under Applicant's ownership, 
institute considerations favoring approval of the application. 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts contained 
ln the record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of 
the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
b e in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
V i l 13, 1967, 

1430 
^LREsf:*' 
BDARD OF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
4/13/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967. 
The Fidelity International Corporation, 
The Fidelity Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
This is in reference to your letter of July 20, 1966, 
requesting the Board's consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold up to 35 per cent of the common shares of Balthex Inter-
national, Inc. ("Balthex"), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at a 
cost of approximately $70,000. 
The subject application has presented the Board with 
serious and difficult questions concerning the appropriateness 
of the proposed investment under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, and the implications of such investment for future 
acquisitions by Edge Corporations in related situations. The 
Board has carefully reviewed the material submitted in support 
of your application and, although this is a close case, has con-
cluded that the investment conforms to the requirements of 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and would otherwise be 
likely to further the foreign commerce of the United States. 
From the facts presented it appears that, while the 
activities of Balthex are closely related to those of companies 
engaged in a commercial business in the United States, the sole 
business of the company is to act as an intermediary between 
domestic manufacturers and foreign consumers and that it maintains 
no inventories of unsold merchandise and makes no sales in the 
United States. Moreover, it is understood that Balthex is ex-
clusively concerned with the effecting of international transac-
tions and its activities in the United States are entirely directed 
to that end. Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that Balthex 
is not engaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, 
wares, merchandise, or commodities in the United States, and that 
the activities of Balthex in the United States are incidental to 
its international or foreign business within the meaning of sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

B O A R D 
CI F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
1431 
The Fidelity International 
Corporation 
Therefore, the Board grants its consent to the above-
described acquisition and holding of stock of Balthex, subject to 
continuing observation and review, provided that such stock is 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter, and that 
Balthex!s business will continue to be that outlined in your 
application, particularly as to the type and extent of its opera-
tions in the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 10 
4/13/67 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. K] 
PART 211—CORPORATIONS ENGAGED IN FOREIGN BANKING 
AND FINANCING UNDER THE FEDERAL RESERVE ACT 
Stock Acquisitions 
§ 211.103 Acquisition of stock of combination export manager. 
(a) The Board of Governors has been presented with the 
question whether a corporation organized under section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act (an "Edge corporation") may acquire and hold a 
non-controlling stock interest in a company engaged in the United States 
in the business of combination export manager. 
(b) The company and the clients for which it acts as export 
sales manager are located in the United States. Through designated 
agents and distributors abroad, the company obtains foreign orders for 
its clients in the United States or, against firm orders from abroad, 
itself purchases merchandise from them and reinvoices it for export. 
In no case does the company maintain inventories of unsold merchandise, 
nor does it make any sales in the United States. 
(c) The eighth paragraph of section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 615) authorizes an Edge corporation, with the 
consent of the Board, "to purchase and hold stock or other certificates 
°f ownership in any other corporation organized . . . under the laws of 
any foreign country or a colony or dependency thereof, or under the laws 

1433 
-2-
of any State, dependency, or insular possession of the United States but 
not engaged in the general business of buying or selling goods, wares, 
merchandise or commodities in the United States, and not transacting any 
business in the United States except such as in the judgment of the 
Board . . . may be incidental to its international or foreign business". 
(d) The Board recognized the closeness of the question 
whether the company is engaged in the general business of buying or 
selling goods in the United States. It concluded, however, that the 
activities of the company in acting as agent or broker for foreign 
clients where there is no market risk on the part of the company, or in 
acting as principal where there are offsetting firm orders for foreign 
clients,would not cause it to be "engaged in the general business of 
buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the 
United States . . .". 
(e) While the activities of the company are closely related 
to those of companies engaged in a commercial business in the United 
States, the sole business of the company is to act as an intermediary 
between domestic manufacturers and foreign consumers. Moreover, the 
company is exclusively concerned with the effecting of international 
transactions and its activities in the United States are entirely 
directed to that end. Accordingly, it was the judgment of the Board 
that the activities of the company in the United States are "incidental 
to its international or foreign business". 

1434 
-3-
(f) Inasmuch as the activities of the company in the United 
States conform to the requirements contained in the eighth paragraph of 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, and the acquisition of a stock 
interest therein by an Edge corporation would otherwise be likely to 
further the foreign commerce of the United States, the Board concluded 
that such an acquisition and holding would be permissible and appropriate. 
(g) In view of the serious and difficult questions presented 
by the foregoing application, the Board emphasized that its decision was 
based on the particular facts of this case, and that applications by 
Edge corporations for permission to make similar acquisitions will 
necessarily be decided on their own merits. Because of the closeness 
of this case, the Board also stated that Edge corporations may wish to 
obtain the prior specific consent of the Board before making investments 
of the kind described herein, even though a proposed investment techni-
cally might fall within the general consent provisions of section 211.8(a) 
of this part. 
(12 U.S.C. 615. Interprets or applies 12 U.S.C. 615.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of April, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1 4 8 5 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 11 
4/13/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 13, 1967. 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, Secretary, 
Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York 10045. 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 10, 
1967, calling to the attention of the Board the plan of 
the Retirement Committee, in applying the 80 per cent 
limitation provision set forth in Section 3(8) of the Rules 
and Regulations of the Retirement System, as amended 
January 1, 1966, to use for the Social Security factor the 
allowance payable in a member's year of retirement. Your 
letter requested any comments and suggestions that may be 
forthcoming. 
The Board will have no objection to use of the 
Social Security amount payable at the time a member retires 
in applying the 80 per cent limitation on the total retire-
ment allowance, as set forth in the Rules and Regulations of 
the Retirement System cited above. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1486 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No 
12 
O F T H E 
4/13/67* 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 14, 1967 
Mr. Lelarid M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the requests contained in 
your letters of April 10, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointments of Charles J. Walker and Gary R. Hickory, 
at present assistant examiners, as examiners for the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, effective May 1, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
