MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 17, 1969 

2 2 8 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 17, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Martin, Chairman 1/ 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Daane 1/ 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sherrill 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
M r . Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
M r . Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
M r . O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
M r . Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
M r . Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
M r . Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
M r . Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
M r . Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
M r . Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

ZZVA) 
7/17/69 
-2-
M r . Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r . Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
M r s . Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch, Noble, Plotkin, and V i a , and 
M r s . Duerson of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy, Ettin, and Wiles, and Miss Wicks tad 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Harris, Kline, and 
McAninch, Miss Greene, and Miss McShane of 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Union National Bank of 
Jersey Shore, Jersey Shore, Pennsylvania, with Commonwealth Bank and 
Trust Company, Muncy, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion 
read as follows: 
The proposed merger of The Union National Bank of 
Jersey Shore with Commonwealth Bank and Trust Company, 
Muncy, would eliminate little or no existing competition. 
There is potential for competition between them through 
de novo branching although this is somewhat limited in 
view of the number of banking offices located in each 
bank's service area. 
The overall competitive effect 
would be slightly adverse. 
Call for report of condition. 
While the Board had delegated 
authority to the Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
to issue calls for reports of condition by Edge corporations and their 
subsidiaries, it had not delegated authority to issue calls for reports 
of condition of direct foreign banking subsidiaries of State member banks. 
The Comptroller of the Currency was issuing a call for reports of condition 

1/11/69 
-3-
as of June 30, 1969, by foreign banking subsidiaries of national banks, 
and in a memorandum of July 8, 1969, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation recommended that the Board call for a report of condition of 
the direct foreign banking subsidiary of the one State member bank (United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California) that had such a subsidiary. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that the question of delegation of authority to issue calls for reports 
of condition of direct foreign banking subsidiaries of State member banks 
would be considered when other proposed changes in delegated authority 
were presented to the Board. 
A copy of the letter sent to United California Bank is attached 
as Item N o . 1. 
First National Charter Corporation. After discussion, the 
Board approved unanimously the application of First National Charter 
Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of The First National Bank of Kansas 
City, Kansas City, Missouri, and Leawood National Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri, with the understanding that an order and statement 
reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Report of Panel on Venture Capital. In a letter of June 25, 
1969, M r . Myron Tribus, Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Science and 
Technology, advised that the Venture Capital Panel of the Commerce 
Technical Advisory Board had prepared a report on the financing of new 
technological enterprise that the Commerce Department planned to have 

2232 
7/17/69 
-4-
published and widely distributed provided the Board of Governors had 
no serious objection to a recommendation in the report "that a program 
of education be established within the Federal Reserve System by District 
Federal Reserve Banks to provide associated banks, whether federal or 
state chartered, with information on the characteristics of venture 
capital financing, available capital sources, financing techniques, and 
technological trends." 
A draft of reply, prepared within the Division of Research and 
Statistics under date of July 14, took the position that the Federal 
Reserve would prefer to play a less active role than appeared implicit 
in the aforementioned recommendation because the staffs of the Reserve 
Banks were not equipped to carry out such a responsibility and the 
contemplated program would be outside their area of competence. 
The 
proposed reply indicated, however, that the Reserve Banks would be glad 
to distribute to member banks material prepared by the Small Business 
Administration or others on the characteristics of venture capital 
financing, available capital sources, and similar matters. 
In discussion of the question, some members of the Board expressed 
the view that it would not be appropriate for the Federal Reserve Banks 
to become involved in the proposed program even to the extent suggested 
in the draft reply. They noted, among other things, that it should be 
possible for the function contemplated for assignment to the Reserve 
Banks to be performed by the regional offices of the Department of 

7/17/69 
-5-
Commerce arid the Small Business Administration. On the other hand, 
another member (Governor Maisel) raised the question whether the 
channeling of information from the Government to the banking system 
was not usually considered to be a proper function for a central bank 
to perform. 
A decision on the reply to be made was then deferred with the 
understanding that another draft of letter would be prepared by the 
staff to aid the Board in its consideration of the matter. 
Survey of demand deposit ownership. 
In a memorandum of July 1, 
1969, the Division of Research and Statistics requested approval of a 
new sample survey of demand deposit ownership. Although such surveys 
had been conducted every year (except one) from 1943 through 1961, they 
were then suspended because of large estimating errors. 
The proposed 
new survey, which had been designed to provide estimates of greater 
reliability and to reduce the burden on respondents, had been approved 
unanimously by the System Research Advisory Committee. However, at the 
most recent meeting of the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
Banks, the vote of the twelve participants with regard to the survey 
was evenly split. It was understood that in some cases the negative 
votes reflected a theoretical position that no information was needed 
on the money supply other than the rate of growth of the total and that 
in other cases the negative votes reflected concern about the burden on 
respondent banks. 

7/17/69 
-6-
After discussion, the conducting of the survey was approved 
unanimously, subject to clearance of the survey by the Bureau of the 
Budget. Attached as Item N o . 2 is a copy of the letter informing the 
Reserve Banks of the Board's action. 
First Wisconsin. After discussion, the Board approved unanimously 
the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Wisconsin State Bank, Green Bay, 
Wisconsin, with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Charter New York. After discussion, the Board approved unanimously 
the application of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire the outstanding voting shares (except directors' qualifying shares) 
of the successor by merger to The Fulton County National Bank and Trust 
Company of Gloversville, Gloversville, New York, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
Security Financial Services. 
Security Financial Services, Inc., 
Sheboygan, Wisconsin, had applied for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of Security First 
National Bank of Sheboygan, Sheboygan, Wisconsin, and South-West State 
Bank, also of Sheboygan. 
An affiliate relationship had existed between the two afore-
mentioned banks for some 46 years, and owners of 53 per cent of Security 

7/17/69 
-7-
Bank's stock presently owned 61 per cent of South-West Bank's stock. 
In the city of Sheboygan, two banking organizations controlled all 
five of the banking offices. 
Recommendations with regard to the application were mixed. 
The 
Examination Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the 
Board's Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval, 
principally because they believed that the possibility of termination 
of existing relationships between the two proposed subsidiary banks was 
extremely remote and that as a practical matter approval of the appli-
cation would not have any significant anticompetitive effect. 
The 
Research Department of the Reserve Bank and the Board's Banking Markets 
Section proposed denial of the application. 
They noted that approval 
would foreclose any possibility of eventual disaffiliation of the two 
proposed subsidiary banks, and in their view the formation of the 
holding company would tend to increase the difficulty of new entry into 
the Sheboygan market. 
Discussion revealed an even split in the tentative positions 
of Board members. 
Three members (Chairman Martin, Governor Daane, and 
Governor Sherrill) concurred generally in the view of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation that the likelihood of termination of the 
existing relationships between the two banks involved was remote, and 
in the circumstances they did not find sufficient reasons to justify 
denying the banks the opportunity to join in a holding company structure. 
The other three Board members (Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer) 

7/17/69 
-8-
supported the point of view expressed by the Banking Markets Section. 
They referred, among other things, to a statement in the memorandum 
from the Section that whereas in 1959 stockholders of Security Bank 
held 70 per cent of the stock of South-West Bank, in 1968 they owned 
only 61 per cent, and that was thought to suggest the possibility of a 
gradual weakening of control in the future. 
Accordingly, disposition of the matter was deferred until a 
meeting when all of the members of the Board could be present, with 
the understanding that in the meantime the staff would endeavor to 
obtain more information with regard to the stockholders of Security 
Bank who also held stock of South-West Bank. 
Depositors Corporation. 
Depositors Corporation, Augusta, 
Maine, had applied for permission to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank of Houlton, Houlton, Maine. 
The recommendations of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston and of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation and the Banking Markets Section were for denial. 
While 
conceding that the convenience and needs of the community could be 
better served as a result of the entry of Depositors into Houlton, 
they noted that the proposed acquisition would eliminate potential 
competition. An alternative acquisition with procompetitive effects 
seemed possible and appeared likely to serve the same ends. 
(Note: 
An application by Depositors to acquire shares of a smaller bank, the 
Katahdin Trust Company of Patten, Maine, was being held in suspense 
at the request of applicant.) 

Kuc^} 
f 
7/17/69 
-9-
In a memorandum of July 10, 1969, M r . Leavitt presented reasons 
that in his view might justify approval of the application. 
Although 
admitting that such action might result in some lessening of potential 
competition, he felt that there was a real question whether such 
potential competition would become actual competition. 
In that situation, 
and since economic stimulus was urgently needed in the area in question, 
he concluded that the public interest might best be served by permitting 
the proposed acquisition. 
After a discussion of the respective points of view during 
which several Board members expressed the opinion that the arguments 
were rather closely balanced, the application was denied by unanimous 
vote, with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting 
the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Hempstead Bank. After discussion, the application of Hempstead 
Bank, Hempstead, New York, to merge with Matinecock Bank, Locust Valley, 
New York, was approved unanimously, with the understanding that an order 
and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Bank net income. In a memorandum dated July 15, 1969, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation advised that at a meeting on 
July 8, 1969, attended by representatives of the Accounting Committee 
of the American Bankers Association, the American Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants, the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the 

2238 
7/17/69 
-10-
three Federal bank supervisory agencies, agreement had been reached on a 
formula for determination of net income of banks. 
The Division recommended 
favorable Board action and submitted a draft of letter proposed to be 
transmitted to all insured banks by the respective bank supervisory 
agencies. 
While the reaction of Board members was favorable, it was noted 
that a controversial problem was involved and that criticism from within 
the banking community could be expected. 
Accordingly, it was suggested 
that action by the Board should be contingent upon ascertainment that 
action also had been taken by the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Subject to that understanding, the recommendation of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation was approved unanimously. 
(Note: 
It was subsequently ascertained that action corresponding 
to that of the Board had been taken by the Comptroller and by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Attached under Item No. 3 are copies of 
the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks pursuant to the Board's 
action and of the letter to be sent by them to State member banks.) 
Emergency lending to nonmember banks. 
In a memorandum of June 30, 
1969, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations and the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation noted that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia had advised that it intended to adopt, subject to comments, 
suggestions, or exceptions by the Board of Governors, the following policy 

22<>3 
7/17/69 
-11-
statement covering loans to nonmember banks: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia may 
extend credit to individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations in emergency circumstances in 
accordance with Paragraph 13, Section 13, of the 
Federal Reserve Act if, in its judgment, credit 
or liquid funds, including funds derived 
from the sale of assets, are not practically 
available from other sources, and failure to 
obtain credit would adversely affect the economy. 
The Reserve Bank felt there was need for a policy in that regard because 
of an inquiry it had received recently from a nonmember bank and the 
prospect that requests might be received in the future. 
For the purpose, 
the Bank had stated that it would like to have the Board's views with 
respect to lending to nonmember banks in the following types of cases: 
Where a bank is faced with a need for funds to 
make settlement for check clearings or other 
immediate demands. 
Where funds are needed for emergency purposes 
but liquidation of assets would impair the bank's 
capita 1. 
In the opinion of the staff, the two hypothetical case questions 
raised by the Philadelphia Bank seemed to indicate that the Bank was 
inclined toward a very broad interpretation of developments that "would 
adversely affect the economy." 
Thus, the Philadelphia proposal appeared 
to raise three basic issues: 
(1) what obligations does a Reserve Bank 
have to prevent failure of nonmember banks; (2) how far can a Reserve Bank 
go in discharging any such obligations without nullifying one of the 
most important incentives for membership in the Federal Reserve System; 

2300 
7/17/69 
-12-
and (3) what procedures and criteria should be used in determining whether 
failure to make credit available to a nonmember bank would adversely affect 
the economy. 
After considering 
several possible approaches, the staff 
recommended in the June 30 memorandum that the Philadelphia Reserve Bank 
be advised that: 
(1) the policy statement proposal and the related 
quest ions presented by the Bank seemed to raise the possibility of differing 
evaluations among the Reserve Banks of situations that would adversely 
affect the economy; (2) the Board believed that applications for credit 
under the authority of paragraph 13 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
Act should be handled with appropriate uniformity; and (3) to achieve 
that objective the Board had decided to ask that all applications for 
loans under such authority be submitted to the Board for consideration 
and approval. 
In commenting on the matter, Mr. Farrell said at one point that 
he had shown the June 30 memorandum to Governor Mitchell and that the 
latter was inclined not to agree. As Mr. Farrell understood it, Governor 
Mitchell's initial reaction was that the proposed Philadelphia policy 
statement was acceptable, that a Reserve Bank would be justified in lending 
to a nonmember bank if that bank was faced with a need for funds to make 
settlement for check clearings, but that a Reserve Bank would not be 
justified in extending credit to a nonmember bank in a case where funds 
were needed for emergency purposes but liquidation of assets would impair 

7/17/69 
-13-
the bank's capital. 
That view was advanced by Governor Mitchell on the 
theory that the System had some obligation to protect depositors but 
not to protect stockholders. 
In Mr. Farrell's view, however, it would 
be rather difficult in practice to ascertain that credit extended when 
a nonmember bank was in need of funds to make settlement for check 
clearings was for the protection of depositors rather than stockholders. 
As the discussion proceeded, attention was called to a memorandum 
prepared by the Division of Research and Statistics under date of July 3, 
1969, and distributed "for information only" in which the Division 
suggested that the Board might want to review and update its position on 
the providing of emergency credit assistance to nonmember depositary-
type institutions in view of the forecast of large net savings outflows 
in July. The analysis suggested that the chances that emergency credit 
assistance would be needed were not very high. The Division suggested, 
nevertherless, that the Board follow developments closely and stand 
ready to activate an emergency assistance program should evidence emerge 
of a more serious liquidity squeeze than was anticipated. 
In that event, 
reactivation was proposed of a program substantially similar to the one 
authorized by the Board in its letter to the Federal Reserve Banks of 
July 1, 1966, although it was felt that any new program should probably 
be directed solely to mutual savings banks and nonmember commercial banks. 
When it developed that neither Mr. Farrell nor Mr. Leavitt had 
had an opportunity to familiarize himself with the Research Division's 

2302 
7/17/69 
-14-
memorandum, a suggestion was made that consideration of the June 30 
memorandum be deferred until another meeting of the Board, with the 
understanding that in the meantime Messrs. Farrell and Leavitt would 
consider whether that document and the Research memorandum should be 
taken up in combination or separately and whether any conflicts appeared 
to be involved. 
The suggestion also contemplated that Mr. Farrell would 
explain to President Bopp of the Philadelphia Bank why the Board was not 
yet in a position to give the Bank its views on the proposed policy 
statement or on the related questions that had been raised by the Bank. 
There was agreement with the suggested procedures. 
One issue that surfaced during today's discussion was whether 
it was realistic to assume that the Board would be in a position to act 
expeditiously on requests for credit from nonmember banks that were 
referred to it by Reserve Banks under the procedure proposed in the June 30 
memorandum, 
In this connection, Mr. Partee observed, in reply to a 
question, that such a procedure would hardly be feasible under a program 
of the kind outlined in the Research Division's memorandum because of 
the circumstances that were likely to be involved if it became necessary 
to activate such a program. 
However, that should not be interpreted as 
a judgment that such a precedure would necessarily be too cumbersome in 
connection with credit requests from individual nonmember banks under 
circumstances of the kind envisaged by the June 30 memorandum. 

2303 
7/17/69 
-15-
Ariother question raised during the discussion was whether the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation should be consulted in the process 
of reaching a determination with respect to the position to be taken 
on the proposed Philadelphia policy statement. 
The prevailing view was 
that that question need not be decided until the Board had considered 
the matter further. 
While,as noted, decision today was simply to defer, pending 
additional staff study, further consideration of the action to be taken 
against the background of the proposed Philadelphia policy statement, 
several Board members, including Governors Robertson, Daane, and Brimmer, 
indicated that they were inclined against sanctioning the use 
of the 
statement by the Bank because in their judgment it admitted too broad 
an interpretation of the circumstances under which credit accommodation 
should be extended to nonmember banks. Another member (Governor Maisel) 
indicated that he leaned toward an adaptation of a procedure such as out1ined 
in the Research Division's memorandum rather than the procedure suggested 
in the June 30 memorandum. 
In part, at least, this was because he felt 
that the issuance of guidelines provided a better tool for contingency 
planning, both on the part of the System and on the part of those who 
might seek to apply for credit. 
Chairman Martin withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Architectural services. 
In a memorandum of June 30, 1969, 
Mr. Farrell noted that pursuant to the understanding reached at an earlier 
Board meeting the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 

2304 
7/17/69 
-16-
Plans had consulted with Mr. Pietro Belluschi on the problem of securing 
architectural advice in connection with Federal Reserve Bank construction 
projects, that Mr. Belluschi had recommended that the Board retain a 
Washington firm to serve as architectural consultant, and that he had 
specifically recommended the firm of Keyes, Lethbridge & Condon. 
Mr. Farrell also pointed out that Mr. Belluschi had cited a 
need to strengthen the staff of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations by the addition of an "in-house" architect and had indicated 
that it should be possible to attract such a person by a salary offer in 
the $20,000-$25,000 range. 
The Division agreed that retention of such 
a person would be beneficial. 
Accordingly, Mr. Farrell recommended (1) that the Board authorize 
Mr. Belluschi to approach the firm of Keyes, Lethbridge & Condon to 
ascertain their availability and, if so, the terms under which they would 
be willing to provide consulting architectural services, and (2) that the 
Board authorize a new position at Grade FR-15 in the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations to provide for the employment of an "in-house" 
architect and that Mr. Belluschi be asked to assist in the screening of 
applicants. 
It developed to be the consensus (with which Governor Mitchell 
was reported by Governor Maisel to agree) that the approach to the firm 
of Keyes, Lethridge & Condon should be authorized, but that action on the 
employment of the "in-house" architect should be deferred until an 

2305 
7/17/69 
-17-
agreement had been reached with the architectural consulting firm. 
This reflected a view that the dimensions of the in-house requirement 
could be developed more clearly by working in concert with the consulting 
firm and that provision could be made for the establishment of a mutually 
satisfactory working relationship. 
In principle, however, the Board 
was disposed to regard favorably the creation of the proposed new staff 
position at whatever level might be necessary to provide the services 
deemed to be required. 
A minority view in terms of procedure was expressed by Governor 
Brimmer, who felt that a pressing need existed for the staff position 
and that it should be filled promptly in order that expertise might be 
available to assist the Board in appraising Federal Reserve building 
projects, particularly the new building program of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia. 
Accordingly, the first recommendation in the memorandum from 
Mr. Farrell was approved unanimously. As to the second recommendation, 
it was understood that the matter would be handled as indicated by the 
consensus, the hope being expressed that the problem could be resolved 
quite expeditiously. 
Functional expenses reports. In a memorandum of July 11, 1969, 
M r . Farrell recalled that at a recent Board meeting it had been mentioned 
that some concern existed among the personnel officers of the Federal 
Reserve Banks that the provisions of the Accounting Manual with regard 

2306 
7/17/69 
-18-
to the functional expense reports were causing problems in the 
implementation of the equal employment opportunity program. It had 
been suggested that a letter be sent to the Chairman of the Conference 
of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks commenting on the intent of 
the functional expense reports and requesting that arrangements be made 
for the Presidents to discuss the subject with the Board's Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans. A draft of such a 
letter was submitted with the memorandum. 
In commenting on the matter, Mr. Farrell brought out that over 
the years the staff had endeavored to avoid any implication that the 
ranking among Reserve Banks in unit costs was necessarily a measure 
of accomplishment or relative operating efficiency. However, as pointed 
up by recent comments to the effect that the use of equal employment 
opportunity recruits was being hindered because of fear of an adverse 
effect on unit costs in various activities, there had obviously been 
misunderstandings. 
Mr. Farrell and M r . Johnson noted that the personnel officers 
had expressed a willingness to have the salaries of equal employment 
opportunity recruits charged to the personnel function, at least for 
a training period, if that would be helpful, while another possibility 
might be to charge such costs to a separate account. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that whatever was 
necessary should be done to avoid any detrimental effect on the equal 

2 3 0 7 
7/17/69 
-19-
employment opportunity program in view of the value they attached to 
the successful promotion of that program. 
Governor Sherrill then pointed out that as long as a report 
such as the functional expense report was set up in a rigid or uniform 
fashion it was difficult to keep the report from being regarded as a 
measure of efficiency in the minds of operating men. As he saw it, a 
way to be sure that it did not interfere with a vital program such 
as the equal employment opportunity program would be to build into the 
report a bonus to the operating man by giving him the benefit of 
whatever production was obtained from the recruits utilized in his 
function. 
After further discussion along those lines, Governor Maisel 
suggested that the problem be returned to the Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans for further review. It was his thought 
that a letter of the type proposed by M r . Farrell should be sent, but 
that the question whether the functional expense reporting system should 
be made more flexible in its application to specific cases ought to be 
resolved, if possible, before a meeting was held with the Presidents. 
Accordingly, the matter was referred to the Committee for further 
study. One suggestion offered for the Committee's consideration was 
that the Accounting Manual might be amended so as to provide for footnote 
references to the number of employees in training who were being utilized 
in various functions. 
(Note: 
After further consideration of the matter 

2308 
7/17/69 
-20-
by the Committee, a letter was sent to the Chairman of the Conference of 
Presidents in the form attached as Item N o . 4.) 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting during the foregoing 
discussion, and the meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Salary of officer at New York. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York approving the payment 
of salary to M r . H . David Willey as Senior Economist at the annual rate 
of $25,000 for the period July 3 through December 31, 1969. M r . Willey 
had been on leave of absence since July 1968, serving as Director of 
the Policy Division of the Office of Foreign Direct Investments in the 
Department of Commerce. 
A copy of the letter to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item N o . 5. 
Miscellaneous matters. Mr. Partee reported that the Department of 
Commerce would release this afternoon revised gross national product figures 
for the past several years. After commenting briefly on the general nature 
of the revisions, he indicated that a memorandum would be distributed for 
the Board's information. 
Governor Robertson then reported briefly on a meeting with a group 
of representative bankers that he had attended yesterday at the Treasury. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Kenyon then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Division of Data Processing. 
Governor Sherrill referred to a 
memorandum addressed to him under date of July 16, 1969, by the Division 

7/17/69 
- 2 1 -
of Data Processing recommending certain organizational changes in that 
Division. A copy of the memorandum is attached as Item N o . 6. 
Upon recommendation by Governor Sherrill, the proposed organiza-
tional changes were approved unanimously, along with the related personnel 
actions, effective July 21, 1969, or whatever alternative date was agreed 
upon by Governor Sherrill. 
(Note: 
For administrative reasons, an effective 
date of July 28, 1969, was subsequently decided upon.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

T 
2 3 1 0 
B O A R D 
D P 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/17/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1969. 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90054 
Gentlemen: 
You are requested to complete the enclosed 
Form F . R . 314a (Financial Statement and supporting Schedules -
latter may be omitted where "None") as of June 30, 1969, 
for your bank's direct foreign banking subsidiary authorized 
in accordance with Regulation M . 
Unless otherwise indicated, 
reports should not be filed for each office or branch, but 
only a single consolidated report covering the organization's 
book accounts. 
These reports should be submitted in duplicate by 
August 3 1 , 1969, to the Federal Reserve Bank of your District 
for transmittal to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure: Form F.R. 314a 

^ [ f f i l f ^
1 
• f ^ T H ^ - ' 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
< c o . i l . 
Item N o . 2 
7/17/69 
n F T H E 
v , - r - . . 
Z-6940 (On office 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
c o p i ^ s 
o n l y ) 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R S i S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A S D 
July 25, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
For your information, the Board has approved the institution 
o f a n w sample survey of demand deposit ownership (DDOS), as described 
i n the report of the SRAC Ad Hoc Subcommittee on the DDOS, subject to 
clearancc. with the Bureau of the Budget. 
The survey, as you know, was 
Unauii?.ouslv recommended by the System Research Advisory Committee and 
was considered by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 
June 23, 1969. 
It is not intended to begin actual collection of figures 
u ntil the spring of 1970. 
This will allow several months for the pre-
llninary tasks of contacting the respondent banks, acquainting them 
v*th the nature of the survey, and adapting the survey procedures, to 
extent possible, to the circumstances of the sample banks. 
1'he material previously submitted to you and to your staff 
c°ntained the list of banks chosen in the sample. 
The sample banks, 
however, should not be officially notified of their selection until 
tl*e Bureau cf the Budget has cleared the survey. 
A suggested form 
l*tter for such notification will be sent to you later. 
Inquiries regarding the survey, including procedures for and 
p r°gress in its implementation, n a y be addressed to M r . Stanley J . Sigel, 
A d v i o e r in the Board's Division of Research and Statistics. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
'<• W/") 
cs, / <jy; -zc/c 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
DP" T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2312 
Item N o . 3 
7/17/69 
aooreks o f f i c i a l enRsi:ar nNOENCC 
TO THE BOARD 
July 13, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has approved transmittal of the enclosed letter 
dated July 18, 1969, to each member State bank, concerning revisions 
in the structure of bank statements of income to be included in 
stockholder reports. 
A similar letter will be sent by the Comptroller of the 
Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to the in-
stitutions under their respective jurisdictions. 
It will be appreciated if you would duplicate the enclosed 
letter signed by Governor Robertson, and its enclosures, and forward 
them to all member State banks in your District with whatever form 
transmittal letter you deem appropriate. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P . Forrestai, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

9 
f f l f c 
jfrrrrrV 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H F. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 2 0?.£t 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
July 18, 1969. 
Dear S i r : 
One of the principal supervisory goals in the continuing 
program to improve bank accounting practices has been the develop-
ment of reasonably uniform and informative bank financial reports. 
After extensive joint-agency staff discussions and a series of con-
sultations with representative committees of industry, professional 
accountants, and the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, 
the Federal bank supervisory agencies announce the following revisions 
to the structure of bank statements of income to be included in stock-
hold er reports in accordance with Part 13 of the Comptroller of the 
Currency regulations, Regulation F of the Federal Reserve Board and 
Part 335 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation regulations. 
1. 
Recognition of a loan loss factor in the operating 
expenses of banks. Any provision for loan losses 
not allocable against current operations shall be 
charged directly to the undivided profits account. 
2. 
Inclusion of results of investment security trans-
actions as realized in the report of income. 
3. 
Designation of the last line in the statement of 
income as "net income." 
Regulatory instruction for the allocation of loan losses 
to operating expense will include: 
(a) 
Minimum charge equivalent to the five-year 
average ratio of losses computed on the basis 
of net charge-offs to total loans. 
(b) An added amount based on management's judgment 
shall be permitted. Adequate disclosure of 
such discretionary action to be furnished in a 
referenced footnote. 
(c) If the bank is on a charge-off basis of recog-
nizing loan losses, the amount of actual charge-
offs shall be reported against operating income. 

J; 
Conforming to established bank accounting practice and in, 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, gains and 
losses on investment securities shall be reported following the com-
putation of operating income. Net security gains and losses shall 
be reflected in income in the period such results are realized and 
recorded in the accounts. 
Wi • 
•> 
To visualize the effect of the revisions discussed herein 
and to assist your staff in their study of the matter, there is 
enclosed an illustrative financial statement presentation. 
The above income report revisions shall be incorporated 
in published bank reports for the year 1969. The statement of con-
dition as revised in the supervisory call of April 1969, has not 
been changed. Amendments to applicable regulations including the 
Rep 
ort of Income and Dividends, will be forthcoming within the next 
few months. 
Sincerely, 
Wcr 
J 
/ 
Robertson 
/ T . ' L . 
Enclosures 
j 
/ l;: ; 

Statement of Changes in Capital Accounts 
For the Year Ended December 31, 19 
' . 
Capital 
Undivided 
S tock 
Surplus 
Profit: s 
B alance, January 1. 
$1,000,000 
$1,250,000 
$507,000 
N e t income for the year 
406,000 
C ash dividends declared--$2.00 
Per share 
(200,000) 
Revision for losses on loans, 
e*clusive of portion charged 
egainst income, less related 
income tax effect 
$10,000 
_ _ 
(10,000) 
i L O O O g O O O 
£ L 1 M 2 
IMd 000 
I 
* * * * * * * * * * 
Reconcilement of Reserve for Loan Losses 
For the Year Ended December 31, 19 
I*
1*nee, January 1 
$418,000 
^ U i o n s : 
Transferred from operating earnings 
29,000 
"^ansferred from undivided profits 
20,000 
Recoveries of charged-off loans 
2JUIO. 
$469,000 
A c t i o n s : 
L°an charge-offs 
— 
B a l a n c e , December 31 
a ^ O P O 
• 1 s . . . , 
it . • , - > ' i Y 

Statement of Income 
For the Years Ended December 31, 19, 
°Per 
a t i n g Income: 
J
nt:erest and fees on loans 
ncom e on Federal funds sold and securities 
Purchased under agreements co resell 
te*"est and dividends on investments: 
^•S. Treasury securities 
Securities of other U.S. Government agencies 
and corporations 
^ligations of States and political subdivisions 
T °ther securities 
S e ^ t department income 
0t-£
V*-
Ce charges on deposit accounts 
service charges, collection and exchange 
charges, commissions, and fees 
operating income 
Oth e r 
Total 
}
Perat 
[ arie s 
^ 
ing Expenses 
Ii\t
5L°
nS a n c ! o t ^
e r employee benefits 
cr^st on deposits 
APense of Federal funds purchased and securitie 
j 
under agreements to repurchase 
I ^
e r e s t 
o a other borrowed money 
o n capital notes and debentures 
pr ^ c u p a n c y of bank premises 
for losses on loans 
Total 
before Income Taxes and Securities 
a l n s (Losses) 
^Ppi i 
c a b l e Income Taxes 
"Store Securities Gains (Losses) 
S e c ^ t i n 
t a
 
1 G s Gains (Losses), less related income 
e ffect of $21,000 and ($20,000) 
*et T 
income 
U f
l P '
s (losses) 
I r w
 
p e r common share: 
- - °etore securities 
Lo 
a 
ioo!
t i v e 
p e r share amount of securities gains 
> > S e s ) may be included herein. 
et ^coir 
ome 
and 19 
Current 
Year 
2316 
Preceding 
Year 
$ 980,000 
$ 
890,000 
2u,000 
10,000 
160,000 
185,000 
20,000 
15,000 
60,000 
60,000 
10,000 
8,000 
100,000 
90,000 
50,000 
45,000 
15,000 
10,000 
45,000 
45,000 
$1 ,460,000 
£ L ,358,000 
$ 220,000 
$ 
200,000 
15,000 
15,000 
465,000 
445,000 
5,000 
5,000 
10,000 
10,000 
55,000 
52,000 
29,000 
15,000 
56,000 
65,000 
? 855,000 
$ 
807,000 
$ 605,000 
$ 551,000 
262,000 
236,000 
$ 343j 000 
$ 
315,000 
63,000 
(20,000) 
$ 
406,000 
L 
295j000 
$ 
3.43 
$ 
3.15 
4.06 
2.95 

• Balance Sheet 
December 31, 19 
and 19 
5sh 
Asset s 
lav 
and due from banks 
estment Securities: 
S. Treasury securities 
Critics of other U.S. Government 
Sc 
Q fiencies and corporations 
R a t i o n s of States and political subdivisions 
jt . r securities 
a c c o u n t securities 
r al funds sold and securities purchased 
Qfl
 e r Agreements to resell 
t V
o
a
n
s 
Inv
 
l5rer'iises and equipment 
A C c^
S t l r , e nts in subsidiaries not consolidated 
interest receivable and other assets 
Total 
Liabilities 
Q ctposit. 
e r time 
d e p o s i t 
Oth"
U 8 s.^Posits 
Total deposits 
funds purchased and securities sold 
aS
reements to repurchase 
Hoffc ^
at>ilities tor borrowed money 
Oth ef
8 e indebtedness 
labilities 
e r V e 
Total liabilities 
Reserves on Loans and Securities 
possible loan losses 
Capital Accounts 
^
uitv
 
n o t e s 
a n c i debentures 
Cap.
 C a P i t a l : 
S U r 
stock (100,000 shares of $10 par value) 
II
 
P l u s 
n d l v ^ e d Profits 
2317 
December 31 
Cjrrent 
Year 
P r e c e d i n g 
Y e a r 
$ 9,000,000 
$ 8,000,000 
3,200,000 
3,500,000 
800,000 
2,000,000 
217,500 
200,000 
18,198,000 
860,000 
152,500 
400,000 
2,000,000 
167,500 
17,418,000 
970,000 
142,500 
$34,628,000 
$32,598>000 
j 
J - 
i * t n i i i r i f ) i ' T i ^ 
.jmr 
' < M O I 
$22,387,000 
4,260,000 
4,000,000 
$21,560,000 
3,500,000 
4,000,000 
$30,647,000 
$29,060,000 
100,000 
510,000 
80,000 
283,000 
$31,257,000 
$29,423,000 
$ 
418,000 
$ 
418,000 
$ 1,000,000 
1,250,000 
703,000 
$ 1,000,000 
1,250,000 
507,000 
Total 
$ 2,953,000 
$34,62.8,000 
$2^,757,000 
$32,598,000 

2318 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
7/17/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1969 
M r . Charles J. Scanlon, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P- 0 . Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear M r . Scanlo?i: 
The Board has noted from a number of comments by Reserve 
Banks that the use of Equal Employment Opportunity recruits in 
Coin and Check Collection activities may have been limited because 
°f concern for an adverse effect on the Bank's unit costs as they 
appear in the Functional Expense Reports. The Board believes that 
the cost accounting instructions should not hinder the implementa-
tion of the Equal Employment Opportunity Program. 
The Board also 
believes that where training costs are associated with the program, 
the problem can be met by charging such costs to the Personnel 
function rather than to the function for which,they were being trained 
as now required by the Accounting Manual. 
It may be desirable to 
amend the Accounting Manual. 
This suggestion is not intended to compromise in any way 
integrity of the Functional Expense Reports. They provide the Reserve 
Banks and the Board with information in a form that can be utilized 
in analyzing and controlling expenses. 
System totals for each of 
the functional units are the only source of information showing the 
total amount the Reserve Eanks are spending on Check Collection and 
other specific activities. 
These data provide a means of identifying 
Cost developments that need further attention because they are out 
line with a Bank's own prior experience or with trends at other 
Banks. 
However, cost results are not the only gauge of management 
capability; it must be considered in light of the achievement of 
other objectives as well and cost c o m p a r i s o n s must be used with an 
awareness of the differing impact of local conditions on operations 
that are often uncontrollable and overriding. 
The Board would like to have the benefit of the thinking 
the Presidents on this proposal and suggests that their views 

2 3 1 9 
,, M r . Charles J. Scanlon • 
-2-
* .. 
t 
fo'vv 
transmit;ted to the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensa-
and Building Plans. 
„V-i">"» 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

O * C O W . • . 
im-m*. 
•
p 
^URtsf:-* 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item N o . 5 
7/17/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO 
T H E 
B U A U D 
JUL 1 7 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . William F . Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New Y o r k , 
New Y o r k , New Y o r k . 
10045 
Dear M r . Treiber: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to M r . H . David Willey as Senior Economist at: the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the rate or $25,000 
per annum for the period July 3 through December 31, 1969 
This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as 
reported in your letter of July 3, 1.969. 
Very truly youts, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m N o . 
6 
arr«« 
7/17/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
s 
C o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
D a t e 
j u i y ie, 1969 
Governor Sherrill 
Subject; Recommended Division 
division of Data Processing 
organization changes 
After 90 days of active participation in the Division 
activities and careful observation and evaluation of information 
gathered from all pertinent Board Divisions, the following organiza-
tional changes are recorpmen<3ed, to be effective Monday, July 21, 
1969. 
M r . Had.ley Nelson, presently in charge of the Applications 
Branch, would be assigned to the Technical Planning Staff under 
Richard Watt contributing his talents in applications and 
generalized program requirements to that area. 
Mr. Glenn Cummins, 
Presently the Chief of Project Development Section, would be 
appointed to the position of Assistant; to the Director in charge 
°f the Applications Branch. Mr. Keith Jackson is designated to 
replace Mr. Cummins. 
The Special Projects and Math/Stat Services 
Sections would remain under Messrs. Jim Crowe and Charles Rogers, 
respectively, reporting to Mr. Cummins. 
Glenn brings 15 years of 
Programming and analyst experience as well as good management back-
ground to his new posicion. 
He has a bachelors degree in Industrial 
Management from the University of Florida and has gained respect from 
n i s associates and users alike in his past performance at the Board. 
M r . Keith Jackson has demonstrated excellent leadership 
Abilities and fine technical skills in his project responsibilities 
uring the past 1-1/2 years in the Project Development Section. 
Keith has a BS degree from Colorado State University and an MBA 
trom Roosevelt University in Chicago. 
A third branch would be established by bringing together 
W o important technical functions, Systems Programming and Data 
evelopment, for the purpose of providing the necessary support to 
he rest of the Division. 
This would be the Systems Design Branch. 
The Systems Programming Section (previously Systems Support) 
ill be responsible for the design, implementation, and maintenance'of 
ne programs which provide the supervisory direction and control of 
he computer. 
The Data Development Section, in addition to its present 
management responsibilities, will take on the vital task of data 
le design, data clean-up, and data maintenance. 
M r . Jerry Bender, 
Presently Section Chief, Data Management, will assume this responsibility 
® head of the Data Development Section. Mr. Stan Bridges would handle 
Systems Programming Section Chief responsibilities temporarily 
n t i l a permanent replacement is found. Miss Joyce Brueckel, the 
Present Chief, would be assigned tonthe Technical Planning Staff 
eP°rting to Mr. Watt. Our Associate Director, M r . John Singleton, 
v°uld direct the Branch activities pending the appointment of the 
Assistant to the Director. 

The Operations Branch under the direction of Mrs. It;cot 
Kines would continue to be comprised of the Computer Operations 
Section, Dan Garges, Chief; Data Production Section, Jim Pflueger, 
Chief; and the Graphic Communications Section, Mack Rowe, Chief. 
A Resource Management Staff reporting to the Associate 
Director would be formed to centralise several important functions 
requiring greater emphasis. 
Hie principal function is Division 
resource control which includes user request processing, requirements 
listing and organizing, and the generating of proper priority systems 
for most effective deployment of Division resources to established 
user reeds. 
This staff will also direct the Division efforts in the 
area oZ standards, procedures, and training. 
It will further organize 
the Career Development Program which will establish job descriptions 
salary grades for all Division assignments and develop the alterna-
tive progression paths that are available to the Division personnel 
vith training and performance. 
M r . Harry Haldane comes to us from 
Tiie Boeing Company, where he was Supervisor of Management S y s t e m 
end will bring with him over 20 years of experience in that field. 
Previous to that he was president of a Management consulting firm. 
Mr. Haldane would he designated as head of the Resource Management 
Staff reporting to Mr. Singleton, 
The Technical Planning Staff is being developed to manage 
two distinct areas ox responsibility. One Croup Head, Mr. Richard 
Watt, will be responsible for the project groups in the areas of data 
systems, computer systems, standards and compatibility, and date, 
communications. The second Group Head, Mr. William Ruoeola, will 
take charge of the management information and control systems and 
the current system review project groups. Mr. Ruotola comes to us^ 
from McDonnell Douglas where he was Manager of Pricing Researcn ana . 
Systems Improvement. He has a 3S degree in Industrial Management, 
an MSA from Xavier University and a majority of his second masters 
degree work completed in Financial and Economic Planning at the 
University of Southern California. He will report to work on July ztt. 
In addition to those individuals previously mentioned as 
appointed to the Planning Staff, Mr. Ted Veenstra will report toj 
Dick Watt with particular responsibilities in the data systems 
area and user requirement forecasts. His planning efforts would 
require considerable interface with the new Data Development action 
the Resource Management Staff. Mr. Doug Koakes would report to 
Nr. Ruotola and concentrate on financial planning and project control 
syfiteiQB for the Division. 
Miss Adeline Tweed will continue to head up the Administrative 
Staff reporting to the Director. 
• 
. 

I 
4 
\ 
V K % 
V 
{J 
<\ 
s 
R 
i 
