MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 7, 1969 

t 
2 4 6 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, August 7, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

I. 
2 4 6 8 
8/7/69 
-2-
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary-
Other supporting staff 
United Nations questionnaire. The United Nations had requested 
through its Legal Counsel that the Board respond to a questionnaire 
regarding methods for making and receiving international payments. In 
a memorandum dated August 5, 1969, Mr. Hackley recommended that the 
Board request the committees of the Conference of First Vice Presidents 
that deal with collection matters to draft a reply to the questionnaire. 
A draft letter was attached. 
The Board unanimously approved Mr. Hackley1s recommendation. A 
copy of the letter sent to the Chairman of the Conference of First Vice 
Presidents is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on financial developments. With a memorandum dated 
August 5, 1969, Mr. Partee had submitted a report on financial develop-
ments in the second quarter of 1969. If the Board approved the report, 
it would be transmitted to the Joint Economic Committee. 
After discussion at today's meeting the report was approved 
unanimously. Copies of the report and of the letter transmitting it to 
the committee are attached under Item No. 2. (The draft report that had 
been distributed contained money stock figures that were in process of 

ZU19 
8/7/69 
-3-
adjustment; in the form in which it was transmitted, the report con-
tained revised figures reflecting newly collected data.) 
Governor Mitchell joined the meeting at this point. 
Euro-dollar regulations. In June 1969 the Board had published 
comment proposed amendments to Regulation M, Foreign Activities of 
National Banks, and Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, designed to 
moderate flows of Euro-dollars. In a memorandum of August 5, 1969, the 
Division of International Finance, in collaboration with the Legal 
Division, summarized and analyzed the issues raised in the public comments 
that had been received in response to the Board's invitation and recom-
mended changes in the proposed amendments that would meet the major points 
°f substance that had been cited. A number of supplementary documents 
also had been distributed. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed tentative agreement by 
a majority of the members of the Board regarding the treatment of the 
Principal issues arising from the proposed amendments. It was under-
that the Board would consider the proposals further at an early 
opportunity. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
vattendance. 
Parsons Group banks. Mr. Leavitt reviewed developments with 
respect to banks in the so-called Parsons Group, his comments being based 

2170 
8/7/69 
-4-
substantially on a memorandum dated August 5, 1969. These banks were 
located principally in the State of Michigan. The information related 
t o (1) the results of examinations of the respective banks made in 
March of this year, and (2) a meeting of representatives of Federal 
and State bank supervisory authorities held on August 1, 1969, with 
representatives of COMAC Company, a management consulting organization 
exercising de facto authority over lending and investment policies of 
the banks. 
Further discussion dealt mainly with questions raised by current 
and prospective requests of Parsons Group banks for accommodation at 
the Federal Reserve discount window. Members of the Board appeared to 
he generally satisfied, at least pending further developments, with the 
Position being taken by the President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago, which contemplated only short-term assistance in emergency 
situations. 
Study by consumer interest group. Governor Sherrill commented 
a study being made currently by a representative of a group interested 
in protection of the interests of consumers in the decision-making pro-
Cess. After recommending cooperation with the inquirer on this occasion, and 
with others who might be pursuing similar investigations from time to time, 
to the extent reasonable and practicable, he noted that in his opinion 
considerable attention would have to be devoted to matters of this sort in 
the foreseeable future. 

fC' t i 1. 
8/7/69 
-5-
Comments on proposed amendments. With respect to the proposed 
regulatory amendments that had been published for comment on June 26, 
1969, (as discussed earlier during this meeting), Governor Brimmer noted 
that letters expressing views on the proposals apparently had been 
furnished to outside parties before they became available to the members 
°f the Board for study and consideration of the contents. After a 
brief discussion, it was indicated that possibilities for making some 
adjustment in current procedures relating to the handling of such letters 
would be reviewed by the staff. 
Foreign travel. The Board authorized travel by Mr. Holland, on 
an actual expense basis, to participate in a seminar being arranged by 
the Bank of Italy during the week of October 13, 1969, and to make stop-
over visits en route at certain other European central banks. 
The meeting the adjourned. 
fa, Secretary 
/ 

2472 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F 
T H E 
8/7/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 8, 1969 
Mr. Hugh J. Helmer, Chairman, 
Conference of First Vice Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Helmer: 
Enclosed is a copy of a letter received by the 
Board from the United Nations requesting a reply to an 
enclosed questionnaire regarding methods of making and 
receiving international payments. 
In view of the subject matter of the question-
naire, the Board would appreciate it if you would refer 
the matter of the drafting of a reply to the standing 
Committee on Collections. Since the Board's reply must 
be transmitted to the United Nations by October 31, 1969, 
a draft of the reply should be received by the Board not 
later than October 17, 1969. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

2173 
y'^SSSSUfa: 
t hftir • 
1.1 .. t 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/7/69 
OFFICE OF THE C H A I R M A N 
August 11, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
• 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
: f'OSti shoCtft'h -bur ' \ 
• il-r- i- 
• 
; -•••• • i 
' * ' • 
In accordance with the arrangements previously made 
with your committee, I am transmitting herewith a staff report 
on financial developments in the second quarter of 1969. 
a 
Sincerely yours, 
h. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure cn 11! 
X l>: 

2474 
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THE SECOND QUARTER OF 1969 
The reserves of the banking systemrose only slightly during 
the second quarter as Federal Reserve open market operations remained 
restrictive. Additional pressure was exerted on bank reserve positions 
through increases in reserve requirements and in the Federal Reserve 
d i** 
scount rate. Total member bank deposits contracted, while the money 
stock increased at an annual rate of h 
per cent between March and 
June. 
Under the circumstances, banks turned increasingly to non-
dGPosit sources of funds. 
In particular, borrowing in the Euro-dollar 
Market rose sharply, but banks also increased their borrowing at 
Federal Reserve disccunt windows and demands for Federal funds became 
m° r e l n t G n se. 
Moreover, a growing number of banks turned to other means 
o f obtaining funds--such as selling loans subject to repurchase agreements 
t o nonbank sources and issuing commercial paper through holding companies 
° r subsidiaries. 
With the supply of bank credit quite limited, banks liquidated 
holdings of securities and sold loans outright. Loan expansion was 
sightly below the sharply reduced rate of the first quarter, and loan 
terms a nd conditions were tightened further. 
Inflows of funds to non-
b*nk savings institutions also^ere reduced during the second quarter, 
a n d new mortgage commitment activity was curtailed as mortgage interest 
rates rose further. Market interest rates in general increased con-
siderably further during the quarter. 

The Board of Covernors of the Federal Reserve System also 
proposed several amendments to its regulations designed to correct 
situations that had arisen with respect to borrowing in the Euro-dollar 
and Federal funds markets. On May 29 it proposed an amendment to 
Regulation D (reserves of member banks) designed to ensure that checks 
resulting from transfers involving foreign branches are not used to 
effect a reduction in required reserves. And on June 26 it proposed 
a 10 per cent reserve requirement on borrowings of U.S. banks from 
their foreign branches—to the extent that these borrowings exceed the 
daily-average amounts outstanding in the 4 weeks ending May 28, 1969— 
in order to moderate the flow of Euro-dollars between U.S. banks and 
their foreign branches, as well as between U.S. and foreign banks. 
The next day, the Board proposed that liabilities of member banks on 
certain so-called 'Federal funds" transactions with customers other than 
banks be brought within the coverage of Regulations D (reserves of 
member banks) and Q (payment of interest on deposits). 
£jjnk RGservos 
Total reserves of member banks rose'sli;htly, on balance, 
during the second quarter--at an annual rate of about'i per tent*-- • 
following a smaller incroa'se. in the first quarter. But nonborrowed 
reserves--those provided through Federal Reserve open market operations--
showed a marked conti action, as had also been the case in the' ' 2 
first quarter. Moreover, reserve requirements on demand deposits in 
excess of $5 million were increased by 1/2 of a percentage point in 
April. 

3 
2476 
NET CHANGE IN RESERVES 
Percentage annual rates of change, seasonally adjusted 
1968 
1969 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
II 
Total Reserves 
1.0 
10.4 
8.6 
0.1 
1.2 
Nonborrowed Reserves 
1.7 
13.9 
4.3 
-2.9 
-4.7 
As nonborrowed reserves declined, member banks relied 
increasingly o.i borrowings from Federal Reserve banks as a supplemental 
source of funds, even though the discount rate was raised from 5-1/2 to 
6 per cent in early April. In May and June member bank borrowings at 
the discount window reached an average level of more than $1.3 billion, 
up markedly from $850 million in March and from $600 million in December 
of 1968. 
Indicative of the pressure on bank reserve positions, the 
Federal funds rate--the interest rate banks charge.for overnight lending 
of reserve funds to other banks, and consequently the rate most 
immediately affected by reserve pressures--rose to around 9.20 per 
cent by early June, as compared with a high of about 6.85 per cent in 
March. 
(Bank Reserve Chart) 
F1 ows of Deposits and Money 
With pressure maintained on bank reserve positions, total 
member bank deposits subject to reserve requirements--the bank credit 
proxy—continued to decline, falling at an annual rate of more than 
2 per cent in the second quarter. 
In view of these losses of deposits, 

banks increased their utilization of other sources of funds. For 
example, banks with foreign branches borrowed heavily in the Euro-dollar 
market. More banks also began to tap other nondeposit sources of funds 
by issuing commercial paper through holding companies or subsidiaries, 
by making repurchase agreements against securities and loans, and by 
borrowing Euro-dollars directly or through brokers. 
SELECTED DEPOSIT FLOWS 
Percentage annual rates of change, seasonally adjusted 
Money stock 
Time and savings deposits 
at all commercial banks 
MEMO: 
Total member bank deposits 
plus Euro-dollar 
borrowings 2/ 
II 
1968 
TTT 
1969 
8.7 
4.5 
IV 
7.6 
I 
2.7 
TT 
4.5 
3.2 
17.9 
15.7 
••6 .5 
-J.fr 
1.2 
13.1 
12.2 
-4.3 
-2.2 
3.5 
14.0 
11.7 
-1.8 
1*8 
2/ Bank credit proxy. 
If Bank credit proxy adjusted to include domestic bank liabilities to 
t~reign branches. 
Note: ^ t demand deposit data for the first half of 1969 „ » h i c h 
n r e 
re.le.ted in the money supply and in total member bank deposits-
have been revised on the basis of newly obtained figures that 
Of - v L h ^ a t e " a , K ° r W a r d M a S 
S t e m n i n s f r c m a n increasing volume 
o. cash items" that were not associated with deposit transfers. 
The decline in bank deposits during the second quarter resulted 
Mainly from a further reduction in time and savings deposits; a small 
decline In U.S. Government demand deposits was nearly offset by an in-
crease in private demand deposits. The contraction in time and savings 
^posits reflected for the most part continued heavy attrition in large 

2478 
-5-
certificates of deposit (CD's) as further increases in money market 
rates induced additional shifts from CD's to higher-yielding short-
term market instruments. Outstanding CD's at large banks fell by an 
additional $3.5 billion during the second quarter. This brought the 
total decline to nearly $9 billion since early December 1968, when the 
current run-off began. 
As in the first quarter, the attrition in CD's for the second 
quarter as a whole was concentrated at major money market banks, where 
depositors are typically more interest sensitive. Large banks in New 
York and Chicago—which held about 30 per cent of outstanding CD's at 
the end of March—accounted for 55 per cent of the decline in CD's 
during the second quarter. Toward the end of the quarter, however, 
banks outside Now York and Chicago began to- account for an increasing share 
of the attrition. 
In view of these large losses of deposits, banks with 
foreign branches increased their borrowing in the Euro-dollar market, 
By the end of June, bank liabilities to foreign branches had risen 
to a level of arcund $13 billion, an increase of $3.3 billion over 
the level at the end of March. With this heavy demand, rates on 
Euro-dollars rose sharply further. Yields on 3-month maturities, for 
example, reached 12.5 per cent in mid-June as compared vith a high 
of 8.6 per cent in March. 
Consumer-type time and savings deposits also were affected 
by the further increases in market rates of interest. At large banks 
these deposits declined somewhat, on balance, during the second quarter, 

2479 
- 6 -
following substantially reduced growth during the preceding quarter. 
This reduction represented in part outflows of regular savings 
deposits, most of which took place in early April following quarterly 
interest crediting. And even though large banks continued to 
experience inflows of consumer-type time deposits--time certificates 
and open accounts--these inflows were markedly less than those in 
the first quarter. Country banks also sustained sizable savings 
deposit outflows—again mostly in April--although expansion in 
time deposits more than offset these declines; as a result there 
was moderate growth in total time and savings deposits at these 
banks over the quarter. 
The continued constraint on bank reserve positions and the 
further increase in interest rates appear to have held the rate of 
growth in the money stock during the second quarter below that in 
the latter half of 1968. The money stock--as currently measured-
rose at an annual rate of 4.5 per cent, compared with about 2.7 per 
cent in the first quarter and more than 6 per cent during the second 
half of 1968. These money stock figures for the first half of 1969 
have been revised on the basis of certain preliminary, newly 
collected data. These data have helped eliminate a downward bias 
that had steirmed from an increasing volume of "cash items"--a 
deduction item in measuring the money stock--that was generated 
in part by overnight Euro-dollar transactions and to a great extent 
were not associated with deposit transfers. 

Banks' Use of Funds 
With lendable funds under constraint, banks continued to 
make substantial adjustments in their portfolios. Acquisitions 
of longer-term securities were brought virtually to a standstill, 
loans were sold, and holdings of shorter-term liquid assets were 
drawn down further. Consequently, the liquidity positions of banks, 
particularly large banks, fell to extremely low levels by midyear. 
Banks reduced their holdings of U.S. Government securities 
by an additional $1.5 billion in the second quarter of 1969--reflecting 
largely the run-off of Treasury bills and short-term notes and bonds. 
This reduction was only about one-third of that in the first quarter, 
which suggests that bank holdings of U.S. Government securities were 
approaching minimum working levels. Holdings of other securities 
were also reduced, following a sharp cutback in bank acquisitions of 
these securities during the first quarter. The reduction totaled 
about $500 million for the second quarter and represented mainly 
the liquidation of both short- and long-term municipal issues. 

-8-
Thc constraints on banks led them to stiffen lending 
terms further during the quarter, featured by a full percentage 
point rise in the prime rate to 8-1/2 per cent in early June. Bank 
loans expanded at a little less than the first-quarter pace, which 
was well below that in the second half of 1968. Banks were forced 
to sell some existing loans outright in order to accommodate new 
loan demands. 
Business loans, after having risen rapidly since the fall 
1968, grew at a somewhat reduced rate during the second quarter. 
Growth in real estate loans slowed markedly as bank lending capacity 
was constrained and as housing starts declined. Consumer loans 
continued to expand at about the reduced pace of the first quarter--
teflecting the moderate growth of consumer credit generally. Cut-
standing loans in all other major loan categories remained relatively 
unchanged or increased only slightly. 
Nonbnnk Intermediaries nnd Mortgage Markets 
Inflows of funds to nonbank intermediaries were sharply re-
duced in the second quarter. During the April reinvestment period 
savings and loan associations and mutual savings banks experienced 
outflows of deposits- in response to larger tax payments and the pull 
of yields on market instruments; later In the quarter savings inflows 
were below average. However, these institutions acquired an increased 
volume of mortgages even though growth in savings flows slowed. In 
order to do this, savings and loan associations Increased their 

2482 
-9-
borrowing from the Federal home loan banks, and mutual savings banks 
reduced their acquisitions of securities. Moreover, such acquisitions 
as they did make represented mainly takedowns of mortgage commitments 
made earlier. New-commitment activity slowed during the quarter, and 
the backlog of outstanding mortgage commitments, while still relatively 
high, began to decline. 
NET CHANGE IN MORTGAGE DEBT OUTSTANDING 
In billions of dollars, ueasonilly adjusted 
II 
1968 
III 
IV 
i * i i 
I 
1969 
lie 
Total 
6.5 
6.4 
7.8 
7.6 
6.8 
Residential 
A.5 
4.4 
5.4 
5.3 
4.3 
Other \J 
2.0 
2.0 
2.4 
2.3 
2.0 
1/ Includes farm properties, 
e - Estimated. 
At life insurance companies, substantial increases in policy 
loans restrained the volume of funds available for other investments, 
including mortgages. T^hen combined with the constraint on commcrcial 
bank lending activity, and the consequent seasonally adjusted reduc-
tion in mortgage acquisitions by banks, total net mortgage debt 
formation declined from the exceptionally high rate in the first 
quarter. But the drop in residential mortgage lending was limited by 
the Federal National Mortgage Association's continued sizable support 
to the Federally insured sector of the market. 

-10-
Funds Raised in Securities Markets 
Corporate borrowing in capital markets increased further in 
the second quarter, probably reflecting the higher cost and reduced 
availability of alternative sources of funds. Total offerings of 
corporate securities attained a new quarterly peak as bond issues 
rose significantly from the first-quarter pace. Common and pre-
ferred stock offerings were maintained at the relatively high level 
of the previous quarter and were more than double the total for the 
second quarter of last year. This volume of equity issues--as well as 
a considerable volume of equity-oriented convertible bond offerings--
was floated without the inducement of an ebullient stock market; 
average stock prices leveled off and then declined steadily after 
mid-May. 
OFFERINGS OF NEW SECURITY ISSUES 
Monthly averages in billions of dollars 
not seasonally adjusted 
1968 
1969 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
H e 
Corporate securities 
Total 
1.9 
1.7 
2.0 
2.1 
2.4 
1.6 
1.3 
1.5 
1.4 
1.7 
.3 
.4 
.5 
.7 
.7 
Bonds 
Stocks 
State and local govern 
ment bonds 
1.3 
1.5 
1.5 
9 
1.2 
e - Estimated. 

-11-
New security offerings by State and local governmental units 
rose from the depressed pace in the first quarter, although they 
remained below the rate of a year earlier. This increased volume of 
offerings was accounted for largely by a surge in bond issues during 
April when interest rates were declining. While financing of many 
units continued to be restricted by below-market rate ceilings, 
the decline iti market rates early in the quarter permitted some 
previously deferred issues to be sold, and other borrowers were 
induced to take advantage of the more favorable market. Demand for 
credit in the short-term note market was particularly strong by 
borrowers who had the authority to enter this market. 
The. Federal Government repaid debt in volume during the 
second quarter as the budgetary position swung to substantial surplus. 
This improved position stemmed principally from a year-over-year 
revenue gain of more than $10 billion, a gain that reflected both higher 
tax rates--resulting from the surcharge--and higher incomes. But 
in addition, outlays were below those a year earlier; in all other 
recent quarters expenditures had been above their counterparts of 
the previous year. 
On the other hand, Federal agency financing was quite large 
in the second quarter. Offerings of such issues to raise new money 
aggregated $3 billion, more than double the volume of a year earlier. 
The Federal home loan banks accounted for more than one-third 
of this volume as they sought funds to maintain their liquidity positions 
at a time of increased borrowing demands by member savings and loan 
associations. 

2485 
ia* 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BORROWING AND CASH BALANCE 
Quarterly totals in billions of dollars 
Not seasonally adjusted 
II 
1968 
III 
Tt/ 
1969 
Budget surplus 
i 
lie 
or deficit 
2.9 
-3.2 
-7.1 
-2.0 
15.3 
Net cash borrowing (+) 
7,7 y 
3.4^ 
or repayment (-) 
-2.6 
7,7 y 
3.4^ 
.2 
-12.5 
Other means of financing^ 
•» .4 
-1.1 
- .2 
1.9 
- 1.7 
Change in cash balance 
- .1 
3.3 
-3.9 
.1 
1.1 
1/ Excludes effect on agency debt outstanding of transfers of'certain 
agencies to private ownership. 
V 
Checks issued less checks paid, and other accrued items, 
e - Estimated. 
Interest Rates 
Continued heavy demands for funds from private sectors and 
Federal agencies during the second quarter, in conjunction with con-
straint on bank reserves, was reflected in further increases in vir-
tually all market rates of interest. Banks, for example, bid up 
interest rates on Euro-dollars and Federal funds, as they sought 
additional funds in these markets. Moreover, sales of Treasury bills 
by banks contributed to the increase in yields on these instruments; 
during the second quarter, the yield on 3-month Treasury bills rose 
by about 65 basis points to a high of around 6.80 per cent in June. 
In addition, banks raised the interest rate on loans to prime cus-
tomers to 8-1/2 per cent in early June. And with the reduced avail-
ability of bank credit, corporate borrowers continued to rely heavily 

-13-
on the commercial paper market. As a result, rates on A- to 6-month 
commercial paper rose to more than 8.50 per cent by the end of June, 
as compared with a high of around 6.'90 per cent in March. 
(Interest Rate Chart) 
Upward pressures on interest rates also spilled over into 
capital markets, owing in part to the absence of purchases of long-term 
securities by banks. Most long-term rates rose further, on balance, 
d"ring the .second quarter, even though they had declined somewhat 
*<* April. 
By the end of June the yield on municipal bonds had risen 
50 basis points above the March high to a level of 5.82 per cent, 
Rates on corporate Aaa new issues (with 5-year call protection), 
and on Federal Housing Administration mortgages in the secondary 
market rose by about 20 basis points to levels of 7.76 and 8.40 per 
cent, respectively. Yields on long-term Government bonds, however, 
remained relatively unchanged, on balance, at about 6.25 per cent. 

3ANK RESERVES AMD BORROWINGS 
«•«» 
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS, SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
-< 28 
TOTAL RESERVES 
NONBORROWED RESERVES 
NOT SEASONALLY ADJUSTED 
BORROWINGS FROM 
FEDERAL RESERVE 
NET BORROWED,# 
RESERVES „ 
A ' 
I 
/ T> f 
NET FREE RESERVES 
EXCESS RESERVES 
1969 
1967 

BANK CREDIT 
COMPONENTS 
CHANGE, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
U.S. GOVT. SECURITIES 
TOTAL LOANS 
Q2 
C3 
1988 
Q4 
10 
Seasonally adjusted 
•• 1 '"•';'.* "J- ; ' 
' 
* 
• M l

j 
} 
• 
I .J • 
•'Hi'Hv 
» 
BANK LOANS 
MAJOR COMPONENTS 
Change, jjllions of dollars 
BUSINESS LOANS 
2 
I 
REAL ESTATE LOANS 
o 
CONSUMER LOANS 
n 
m 
H 2 
0 
ALL OTHER LOANS 
1 
m 
a 
O 
Q2 
S«esonally adjusted 
Q3 
12S8 
Q4 
Q1 
Q2 
1969 
NONBANK SAVINGS ACCOUNTS 
Q2 
Seasonally adjusted 
Q3 
1959 
04 
Q1 
Q2 
1969 
o 

PER CENT PER ANNUM 
FHA MORTGAGES 
FEOERAL FUNDS 
CORPORATE Aaa 
NEW ISSUES 
COMMERCIAL PAPER 
« 6 MONTHS 
U.S. GOVT 
F.R. DISCOUNT RATE 
STATE AND LOCAL GOVT 
TREASURY BILLS 
3 Month 
24°0 
M e r e s t r a t e s 
Monthly averages except FHA (based on quotations for one day each month). 
Yields: U.S. Treasury bills, market yields on 3-month issues; prime commercial 
PaPer, dealer offering rates; FHA, weighted averages of private secondary market 
of new-home 30-year mortgages converted to annual yield (dashed line 
ln<Hcates period of adjustment to change in contractual interest rate); corpo-
bonds, weighted averages of new publicly offered bonds rated Aaa, Aa, and 
bV Moody's Investors Service and adjusted to an Aaa basis; U.S. Govt, bonds, 
^ k e t yields adjusted to 20-year constant maturity by U.S. Treasury; State 
a n d local govt, bonds (20 issues, mixed quality), Bond Buyer. 
