Minutes for 
August 29, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

8 3 7 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 29, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Eckert, Bernard, 
Ettin, Fry, and Kelty of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Katz, Yager, Baker, and Pizer 
of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reviewed developments in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Fry commented on recent and prospec-
tive bank credit developments, and Mr. Baker summarized conditions in 
1? 
the f o r e i g n e x c h a n g e m a r k e t s , with p a r t i c u l a r e m p h a s i s on sterling and 
Britain's r e s e r v e p o s i t i o n . 
C o p i e s of the s e v e r a l tables and charts 
distributed in c o n n e c t i o n w i t h today's r e v i e w h a v e b e e n placed in the 
Board's f i l e s . 

8/29/67 
- 2 -
» » o / o 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions and Miss Eaton withdrew from the meeting and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Noble, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Greenspun, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Burton, Review Examiner, Division of Examinations 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at the meeting of the 
available members of the Board on Thursday, August 24, 1967, as recorded 
in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on August 24 and by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on August 28, 1967, of the rates on dis-
counts and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

3379 
8/29/67 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to The First National Bank of Washington, 
Washington, D. C., granting its request for 
permission to maintain reduced reserves. 
1 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
2 
City approving (1) the appointment of Maurice J. 
Swords as Vice President in charge of the bank 
examination function, and (2) the payment of 
salaries to Mr. Swords and three other offi-
cers at the respective rates fixed by the 
Bank's Board of Directors. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Peoples 
National Bank of Greenville, Greenville, South Carolina, and Farmers 
Bank of Simpsonville, Simpsonville, South Carolina, in a form in which 
the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Peoples 
National Bank of Greenville, Greenville, South Carolina, 
and Farmers Bank of Simpsonville, Simpsonville, South 
Carolina, would eliminate the minor present and poten-
tial competition between the two banks. The overall 
effect on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Morningside Savings Bank, 
Sioux City, Iowa, into The Live Stock National Bank of Sioux City was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 
Some competition exists between Morningside Savings 
Bank, Sioux City, Iowa, and The Live Stock National Bank 
of Sioux City, a subsidiary of Northwest Bancorporation, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota, a registered bank holding company, 
and overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 

3 8 8 0 
8/29/67 
-4-
Applicatiori of Southeast Baricorporation (Items 3-5). Pursuant 
to the understanding at the meeting on August 24, 1967, there had been 
distributed a revised statement reflecting the Board's approval on 
August 16, 1967, of the application of Southeast Bancorporation Inc., 
Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of voting shares of The First National Bank of Miami; Coral Way 
National Bank, Miami; and Curtiss National Bank of Miami Springs. The 
revised statement incorporated suggestions made by Governors Mitchell 
and Maisel and was concurred in by Governor Sherrill. 
(Under date of 
August 21, 1967, a draft order of approval had been distributed, 
together with a dissenting statement by Governor Robertson.) 
The issuance of the order and revised statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3 and 4. A 
copy of Governor Robertson's dissenting statement is attached as Item 
No. 5. 
Proposed acquisition of mortgage company. Question had been 
raised by attorneys for National Bank of Washington, Tacoma, Washington, 
whether, in view of the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act, that 
bank, a subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, could buy the stock of a 
Mortgage company. The bank wished to acquire the assets of such a com-
pany, the main office of which was in Seattle, and form a new corpora-
tion to which those assets would be transferred. 

3381. 
8/29/67 
-5-
In a memorandum dated August 17, 1967, the Legal Division noted 
that section 4(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act provides that no 
holding company may acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of 
voting shares of any company which is not a bank, with certain excep-
tions, and it concluded that under the Tacoma bank's plan none of the 
exceptions provided in section 4(c) of the Act appeared to be applicable. 
It was pointed out that by statute a determination as to the applica-
bility of the exemption provided in section 4(c)(8) of the Act could be 
reached only on the basis of a record made at a formal hearing. At its 
meeting on August 18 the Board concurred in the conclusions of the Legal 
Division, and the attorneys for the national bank were so advised in a 
letter of the same date. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell referred to a subsequent 
telephone call from Mr. Goodwin Chase, Chairman of National Bank of 
Washington, during which Governor Mitchell indicated that the problems 
Presented by the proposal appeared to be primarily of a technical nature 
and suggested that the bank's objective might be accomplished through a 
modification of the original proposal, a matter which the bank might 
wish to discuss with the Board's Legal Division. 
Mr. Hexter stated that in the course of subsequent discussion 
with Mr. Chase and another representative of the bank he had pointed 
out that the provisions of section 4(a) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act would not be applicable if National Bank of Washington were to 

8/29/67 
-6-
take over the assets of the mortgage company rather than to acquire its 
stock. Mr. Chase indicated that such a course would not be practicable. 
Attention then was given to the possibility of modifying the operations 
of the proposed subsidiary corporation so that they would fall within 
the scope of section 4(c)(1) of the Act, which authorizes the purchase 
of shares of a company engaged solely in furnishing services to or per-
forming services for a bank holding company or its banking subsidiaries. 
Mr. Chase was aware that in 1965, in a case involving First Security 
Corporation of Salt Lake City, Utah, a registered bank holding company 
which wished to purchase the shares of a mortgage company, the Board 
held that such a purchase would be permitted under section 4(c)(1). 
However, the mortgage company operations in that case were conducted 
in a manner somewhat different from the operations contemplated for the 
company that National Bank of Washington wished to acquire. Mr. Chase 
agreed to study the operating methods of the Seattle company with a view 
to bringing them into conformity with those of the Salt Lake City com-
pany. It was indicated that a letter would be sent to the Board within 
the next few days that would describe proposed changes in the mode of 
operation of the mortgage company. Accordingly, no action on the part 
of the Board was called for at this particular time. 
Governor Maisel raised the question whether, in a case of this 
kind, if the Comptroller of the Currency had ruled under the National 
Bank Act that the national bank could acquire the stock of the mortgage 

t. »Oi * 
8/29/67 
-7-
company, the Legal Division felt that the Board would nevertheless be 
required to look behind the Comptroller's decision. 
Mr. Hexter replied that this had been the Board's practice. 
Regardless of a ruling by the Comptroller, the Legal Division believed 
that the Board must look into questions of this kind when it had before 
it an application or a request for interpretation under the Bank Holding 
Company Act. 
Governor Mitchell expressed agreement. He noted, however, that 
a number of differences of interpretation between the Board and the 
Comptroller's Office had arisen during the tenure of the former Comp-
troller. It occurred to him that if relationships between the two 
agencies such as had prevailed prior to that time could be restored, 
some problems of the kind involved in the case now before the Board 
could perhaps be eliminated. As he understood it, another national 
bank in the State of Washington that was not a member of a bank holding 
company system had been authorized by the Comptroller to acquire the 
stock of a mortgage company in the same manner as was proposed by the 
National Bank of Washington. 
Mr. Hackley commented that in recent months the present Comp-
troller had permitted national banks to buy stock of mortgage companies 
on the ground that the mortgage company was a subsidiary engaged in 
functions in which the national bank could engage directly. This had 
Presented a conflict, particularly in the Fifth District, where national 

3384 
8/29/67 
-8-
banks had been permitted to purchase such stock and a State member bank 
would like to do the same thing. 
Mr. Hackley added that at a recent meeting of the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation the matter of operations subsidiaries was 
discussed, particularly with a view to the possibility of obtaining 
legislation that would authorize national banks (and State member banks, 
as far as Federal law was concerned) to hold stock of certain kinds of 
corporations. The Comptroller indicated that he would not favor attempt-
ing to secure such legislation because in his view it was not necessary. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the Board was being called upon 
from time to time to consider questions of this kind on an ad hoc basis, 
since it had not reached a determination on the broad policy issues hav-
ing to do with operations subsidiaries. 
It was recalled that a memorandum on the subject from the Legal 
Division had been given preliminary consideration by the Board some time 
ago, with the result that the staff was asked to recommend how the sev-
eral policy issues might best be divided in order to facilitate discus-
sion. A memorandum proposing a separation of the- issues was subsequently 
di stributed, but it had been held for consideration at such time as a 
full Board was available. 
Members of the Board suggested that the subject be placed on 
the agenda for further consideration at the earliest feasible opportunity. 

t VJ< " u 
8/29/67 
-9-
Branch banking laws. Governor Brimmer referred to the fact 
that one of the questions discussed in the Legal Division's memorandum 
on the proposal of the National Bank of Washington had to do with the 
effect of branch banking laws. He saw a need, from the Board's stand-
Point, for a suitable reference document on branch banking laws and 
said that he would be glad to work with the Legal and Examinations 
Divisions and the Banking Markets Section on the form such a compila-
tion might most usefully take. 
Mr. Hexter recalled that the most recent compilation was pre-
pared by the Legal Division in 1964 and that it involved a fairly 
laborious task for the staff even though the Federal Reserve Banks had 
cooperated by supplying basic information. Governor Maisel suggested 
that the Reserve Banks might be asked to update the 1964 data, and Mr. 
Hexter agreed that such a procedure, if acceptable to the Board, would 
render the task less difficult. 
Appointment of First Vice President at San Francisco (Item No. 6). 
The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco had requested approval of 
a
ction by its Board of Directors appointing A. B.-Merritt (now Vice 
President) as First Vice President to succeed H. E. Hemmings, who had 
elected early retirement, and approval of the payment of salary to Mr. 
M e
rritt at an annual rate of $31,000 for the period October 1 through 
M e m b e r 31, 1967. 

3386 
8/29/67 
-10-
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously the appoint-
ment of Mr. Merritt as First Vice President effective October 1, 1967, 
for the unexpired portion of the five-year term ending February 28, 
1971, and payment of salary to Mr. Merritt for the period October 1 
through December 31, 1967, at the annual rate of $31,000. 
The Board also approved the payment of salaries to John B. 
/ 
Williams as Vice President of the San Francisco Bank and to Eugene A. 
Thomas as Assistant Cashier for the period October 1 through December 31, 
1967, at the respective annual rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Direc-
tors . 
A copy of the letter sent to the Bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
International monetary reform. Chairman Martin commented 
briefly on the recent London meeting of the Ministers and Governors of 
the Group of Ten with respect to international monetary reform and noted 
that an additional report could be made following the return of Governor 
Daane from London. 
Revenue bond underwriting. Governor Mitchell commented on his 
appearance before the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the 
Senate Banking and Currency Committee on August 28, 1967, at which time 
he had presented on behalf of the Board a statement with respect to 
s
« 1306, a bill that would authorize commercial bank underwriting of 
revenue bonds. He outlined the responses he had made to certain ques-
tions raised with him following the presentation of the statement, 

8/29/67 
-11-
including the response in which he said that the statement presented 
had been read by six of the members of the Board, that the position 
i c' 
' 
taken therein was concurred in by five of those members, but that he 
was not certain of Chairman Martin's position. 
In further discussion of the matter, Chairman Martin remarked 
that he continued to favor the principle of separation of commercial 
and investment banking, and that in his view a mistake may have been 
'fat-' '.. 
• 
. 
made when commercial banks were authorized by the Banking Act of 1933 
to continue to underwrite and deal in general obligation bonds of 
States and local governments. The conflict-of-interest possibilities 
could not, in his opinion, be disregarded. He also had some apprehen-
s
ion that, if the pending legislation were passed, the commercial banks 
would dominate the field of municipal bond underwriting, and he was not 
sanguine about such a development. On the other hand, the pending legis-
iation 
was limited in scope, and its passage would permit a period of 
e x
Perimenta tion to determine whether apprehensions along the lines he 
1 
had expressed were warranted. This would be valuable if attempts were 
made later to extend the field of commercial bank underwriting into the 
area of corporate securities. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Acting in the absence 
0 r 
^in-.V.', 
of Governor Robertson, Governor Sherrill 
approved on behalf of the Board on August 25, 
1967, memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
^ -F..-» 
a: 
: 
> 
, > . 
. . . 
1 I 
. 
I : • . " F .! . • > 
t 
i". 
• 
- 
.S 

3388 
8/29/67 
-12-
Appointment 
John Irvin Barber as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective August 27, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
Darwin L. Beck, Economist 
$9,001 
$9,536 
Madelene Gray, Statistical Clerk 
4,413 
4,776 
Bank Operations 
Charles W. Bennett, Analyst 
6,877 
7,696 
Patricia K. Cook, Statistical Assistant 
5,096 
5,507 
(change in title from Statistical Clerk) 
Mary Frances Gifford, Statistical Assistant 
6,563 
7,055 
Administrative Services 
Quincy w. Barnes, Collator Operator 
6,011 
6,282 
Data Processing 
Linda s. Blumberg, Programmer 
6,451 
7,696 
^ansfers 
s > 
Virginia P. Hoffman, from the position of Stenographer in the Divi-
l
on of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in the 
gal Division, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
^5,096, effective August 27, 1967. 
Linda Seidman, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in the 
^ision of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual 
a r
y at the rate of $4,269, effective August 27, 1967. 
Rita L. Stewart, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Division 
Personnel Administration to the position of Statistical Clerk in the 
l
sion of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual sal-
y a
t the rate of $3,925, effective August 27, 1967. 

8/29/67 
-13-
3 3 R 9 
Acceptance of resignation 
Melvin E. Moore, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business August 25, 1967. 
Pursuant to the recommendation contained 
in a memorandum from the Division of Data 
Processing, Governor Sherrill approved on 
behalf of the Board on August 28, 1967, 
the appointment of Kenneth R. Slocum as 
Programmer in that Division, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $10,166, 
effective August 29, 1967. 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the 
following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Judy S. Harford, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business September 15, 1967. 
Mary B. Wall, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, effective the close of business September 15, 1967. 
Charles V. Brown, Economist, Division of International Finance, 
e
ffective the close of business September 15, 1967. 
Margaret Boulware, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative 
e
rvices, effective the close of business September 5, 1967. 
Peggy E. Horner, Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative 
e
rvices, effective the close of business September 5, 1967. 
Andrew McClain, Jr., Summer Trainee, Division of Administrative 
e r
vices, effective the close of business September 6, 1967. 
Harry Wendell Weldon, Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
i e s , effective the close of business September 8, 1967. 
Rexanne E. Tomkinson, Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Process-
> effective the close of business September 1, 1967. 

Q Q o n 
» k« a 
v 
8/29/67 
-14-
On August 25, 28, and 29, 1967, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 
QnJUigust 25, 1967 
J^Lthe Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
approving the appointment of Bernard John Shamla 
a s
 assistant examiner. 
i^L-the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Letter to Santa Clarita National Bank, Newhall, 
California, granting its request for permission 
to maintain reduced reserves. 
^ A u g u s t 28 t 1967 
^L-the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
L e
tter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
a
Pproving the designation of six employees as 
s
Pecial assistant examiners. 
^ - t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
better to The Moody Foundation, Galveston, 
exas, granting an extension of time until 
O c
tober 29, 1967, for the Foundation to 
r e
gister as a bank holding company. 
^LAugust 29, 1967 
Bv 
-^the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
^Pproving the designation of James N. Augustine 
s
Pecial assistant examiner. 
Item No. 
7 
8 
9 
10 

8/29/67 
-15-
On August 29, 1967 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
• n•*">'. •?> • 
Letter 
to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding revision of certain pages of the 
State member bank report of examination (FR 410). 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank, Moss Point, 
Mississippi, approving an investment in bank 
Premises. 
139.1 
Item No. 
12 
13 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
N o . l 
D F T H E 
8/29/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
August 29, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First National Bank of Washington, 
Washington, D. C. 
20006. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted 
through the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, the Board 
of Governors, acting under the provisions of Section 19 
of the Federal Reserve Act, grants permission to The 
First National Bank of Washington to maintain the same 
reserves against deposits as are required to be main-
tained by member banks not in reserve cities, effective 
with the first biweekly reserve computation period 
beginning after the date of this letter. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of 
Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

Ct*!>'>' *
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
8/29/67 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 29, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Mr. Simons: 
As requested in your letter of August 10, 1967, the Board 
of Governors approves the appointment of Maurice J. Swords as Vice 
President in charge of the Bank Examination Department effective 
September 1, 1967, with annual salary at the rate of $17,500. 
The Board also approves the payment of salary to 
Robert E. Scott as Chief Examiner at the rate of $16,000 effective 
September 1, 1967. 
Also, the Board approves the following salaries, effective 
October 1, 1967: 
Name 
Title 
Annual Salary 
Donald I. White 
Assistant Vice President 
$14,500 
Estus A . Swanson 
Assistant Cashier 
$13,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3 3 9 4 
Item No. 3 
8/29/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
? 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION INC.,
 
1 
M i
ami, Florida, 
approval of action to become a 
kank holding company through the 
acquisition of voting shares of 
three banks located in or near Miami, 
Florida. 
' 
- - 
J 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e c
tion 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8 4
2(a)(l>), and section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
^ 
CFR 222.4(a)), an application by Southeast Bancorporation Inc., 
ttlomt, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
0 f Q
0 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Coral Way National Bank, Miami; and Curtiss National Bank of 
l1l
ami Springs, all in Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt 
°
f
 the application was given to, and views and recommendation requested 

- 2 -
3395 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller submitted a strong 
recommendation for expeditious approval of the application. 
• 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on July 25, 1967 (32 Federal Register 10893), which provided 
Q
n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction, A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
filing comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
b
efo r e the thirtieth day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
ttlQ
n three months after the date of the Order unless such period is 
6 x t
ended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
p U r
suant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 29th day of August, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Vice Chairman Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) iierritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3398 
Item No. 4 
8/29/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
SOUTHEAST BANCORPORATION INC., MIAMI, FLORIDA, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Southeast Baricorporation Inc., Miami, Florida ("Applicant"), 
h a s
 filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
hiding Company Act of 1956 ( t h e Act"), an application for approval of 
a c t
ion to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per 
C e n t
 or more of the voting shares of the following banks located in or 
n e
ar Miami, Florida: The First National Bank of Miami, Miami ("First 
C l o n a l " ) ; Coral Uay National Bank, Miami ("Coral Way Bank"); and Curtiss 
C l o n a l Bank of Miami Springs, Miami Springs ("Curtiss Bank"), herein at 
t
ime s referred to as "Applicant's Group". As of December 31, 1966, 
National had deposits of $510 million; Coral Uay Bank had deposits 
approximately $4 million; and Curtiss Bank had deposits of $20 million. 
A p
P U c a n t 
proposes to acquire all of the voting shares, except for direc-
t o r s
' qualifying shares, of First National and Coral Way Bank. The latter's 
S
W e s are now held, and have been since 1966, by a wholly-owned subsidiary 
F
irst National. Applicant proposes to purchase for cash 80 per cent or 
^ ^ T b a n k i n g data are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

3397 
®ore of the voting stock of Curtiss Bank for a total purchase price equal 
t o
 a premium of 8.7 per cent of Curtiss Bank's deposits at year-end 1966. 
As discussed in greater detail hereafter, commencing in April 1967 First 
National placed members of its operating staff in Curtiss Bank, with the 
knowledge and encouragement of the Comptroller of the Currency in order 
t o
 give that bank experienced managerial guidance necessitated by a 
C r
itical financial condition found by the Comptroller to exist in that 
b
ank. Applicant's proposal for bank holding company formation is premised 
u
Pon the asserted need for continuing managerial guidance, as well as for 
a d d
itional capital contributions to Curtiss Bank, in order to assure the 
b
ank
1
s sound operation. First National originally introduced its manage-
^ n t into Curtiss Bank in connection with a loan to the bank's majority 
s t
ockholder ^ and a related option running to First National to purchase 
majority stock tendered by that borrower as collateral to First 
C l o n a l • a loan. It is Applicant's position that its acquisition of 
C u r t
i s s Bank, as proposed, constitutes a reasonable step toward an orderly 
r e
Payment of its loan, and the only reasonable means available to insure 
continued sound operation of Curtiss Bank. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
t o
> and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller of the 
C u r
rency. Responding immediately to the Board's request, the Comptroller 
f i t t e d a strong recommendation for approval of the application and, 
l n
 addition, urged "that the most expeditious action be taken by the 

- 3 -
3398 
Board . . . in order to remedy the critical situation now prevailing 
in the Curtiss National Bank". The Comptroller's letter contained the 
following statements: 
"At the outset, it must be recognized that the subject 
application has been filed in the context of a very serious 
condition existing in the Curtiss National Bank of Miami 
Springs. Indeed, applicant states that its proposal has been 
prompted largely by its desire to remedy that situation. In 
the opinion of this Office an emergency condition exists in 
the Curtiss National Bank of Miami Springs making it impera-
tive that there be effected an immediate increase in that 
bank's capital account by the amounts proposed by the applicant. 
. . . It is also our opinion that there is no reasonable al-
ternative to remedy said situation other than the proposal 
made by the applicant in the subject application. 
* 
* 
"Assuming that some anticompetitive effects would result 
from the proposed acquisitions, it is undeniably manifest 
that such effects are greatly outweighed in the public interest 
by the pressing need to remedy the condition of Curtiss 
National Banlc. In that connection, we note that the continued 
operation of Curtiss National Bank is presently sustained by 
virtue of management provided on a temporary basis by The 
First National Bank of Miami. Should the proposed acquisition 
be approved, the substantial managerial resources and exper-
tise of First National Bank would be provided through the 
applicant on a permanent basis, and additional capital would 
be infused into Curtiss National Bank by the applicant." 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
t h a
t the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
Monopoly, 
or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o
 monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States. 
may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, the effect of which, 
l n Q
ny section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, 
0):
 tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
t e s t
r a i n t of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects 
proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 

ky the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is 
Squired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
r
esources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
^nks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be 
8 e
rved. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - First National 
i s
 the largest bank and the second largest banking organization in the 
S t a
te of Florida, as would be Applicant's proposed system. First National' 
as a State-wide competitor is reflected in its total deposits of $510 
**
l
Uon, and its $95 million of interbank deposits - 17 per cent of the 
t o t a
l of such deposits in the State. First National presently holds 
^Proximately 6 per cent of the total deposits held by the 444 insured 
c
°ttmercial banks in the State. Since Curtiss National's deposit size 
million) is not insignificant, its affiliation with First National 
U t l c i e
r Applicant's control w i l l increase the existing c o n c e n t r a t i o n of 
resources but, in view of First National's leading position among 
State's largest banking organizations, perhaps not significantly. 
First National holds 27 per cent of the total deposits held 
^ 
63 banks located in Dade County. When the $20 million of deposits 
^Id by Curtiss Bank are included, Applicant would control 28 per cent 
°tal bank deposits in the county - approximately three times the 
°
tal
 deposits controlled by the next largest banking group. Applicant's 

"
5
" 
.'M n o 
formation as a bank holding company would bring to 77 per cent the total 
deposits in the county held in the aggregate by four bank holding 
companies and eight banking groups. 
First National's share of the demand deposits of individuals, 
Partnerships, and corporations in Dade County differs in varying degree 
v
ith respect to both the number of accounts and amount of deposits. At 
J u
ne 30, 1966, First National held 7 per cent of the total of such ac-
counts of less than $10,000 and 38 per cent of the total of such accounts 
amounting to $100,000 or more. In terms of amounts of such deposits held, 
Pi 
l r s t
 National held 10 per cent of the total carried in accounts less than 
$10,000 and 45 per cent of those carried in accounts of $100,000 or more. 
It is clear from the foregoing data that Applicant's proposal, 
If 
consummated, would not result in a monopoly in Dade County or in any 
Part of the State. Nor is there evidence in this record to suggest that 
8 U c
h acquisition would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o
 monopolize, or to attempt to monopolize, the business of banking in 
areas. However, these data reflect with equal clarity, in the Board's 
^
Uc
*gment, that Applicant's proposed system would increase the dominance 
^csently held 
by First National, which is already excessive in corre-
P°ndent bank accounts and with respect to firms or individuals holding 
d e m a n d
 deposits in excess of $100,000. 
As earlier stated, Applicant proposes to acquire up to 100 
Psr 
C e
n t of the stock of Curtiss Bank, and will pay for that stock $36 a 

3401 
- 6 -
s
hare, representing a premium of nearly 9 per cent of Curtiss Bank's 
total deposit s, In the Board's experience, applications involving 
Proposed holding company formations seldom have involved a payment 
o f
 premium in excess of 2 per cent of the deposits of a proposed 
S u
b8idiary bank that is in sound operating condition unless the situ-
ation included market positions protected from normal competition, 
Similarly, in merger cases coming before this Board, premiums sub-
a t
antiali y in excess of 2 per cent have been paid where continuing 
i n
8titutions have acquired either highly desirable office locations, 
°
r
 competitively protected locations. In the present case, Applicant 
Proposes to pay a premium far in excess of the aforementioned figure -
a n d
 for a bank that Applicant itself states is in critical financial 
3 t r
aits. Apart from the reasons that Applicant gives for its willing-
ness f. 
to pay such a high premium, the fact of the proposed payment is 
e y
idence of First National's determination and ability to take such 
c t
ion, regardless of initial cost, as may be necessary to strengthen 
a n
 already strong market position. The fact that Curtiss Bank is located 
n
 one of Dade County's most rapidly developing industrial areas, ap~ 
Ps j £ 
n t l
y explains First National's eagerness to have an outlet in the 
its willingness to pay the high premium it has offered - a 
em
iutn which the record indicates few if any of First National's com-
Petif. 
L
°rs would or could pay. 
Both Coral Way Bank and Curtiss Bank are located within First 
ional's primary service area. As First National's wholly-owned 

34 o: 
-7-
S u
bsidiary, Coral Way Bank can be expected to offer little real 
competition to First National. Curtiss Bank lies within, and, were 
a
 viable institution, could serve a major industrial portion of 
ade County. Its primary servicc area includes Miami International 
Air 
i r
Port and a rapidly growing complex of nearby light industrial con-
cerns. it competes most directly with three banks in its trade area, 
h
°l<Hng deposits, respectively, of $50 million, $6.5 million, and 
million. The two largest of these banks are affiliates in a four-
bank group operating in Dade County. Competition is also, of course, 
of
£ered in this area by First National and other large banks. If Curtiss 
S a n k W e r
e a financially sound institution, its acquisition by Applicant, 
and i 
l
ts resulting affiliation with First National, would result in a 
f a J U c
tion in the number of alternatives for full-service banking in 
Ci 
i 3
s B a n k ' s trade a r e a , and w o u l d f o r e c l o s e a p o t e n t i a l for s u b s t a n t i a l 
^itional future competition between First National and Curtiss Bank. 
Edition it could inflict an undue competitive impact on the smallest 
of t. e
 three banks operating within Curtiss Bank's trade area. 
The Board notes that First National's present control of 
P°
a
its in Dade County has neither increased nor diminished significantly 
ftom 
position in 1962 when the Board denied the application of First 
r
Poration of Florida, Inc., to form a bank holding company. While 
Sard's denial of First Bancorporation's application related directly 
to 
e
 anticompetitive consequences of the proposed affiliation of four 
of th 
S t a t e ' s 10 largest banks, some of the anticompetitive consequences 

3403 
- 8 -
a t
tributable to First National's role in that proposal are, in nature, 
e q u a l l
y applicable to the present proposal. Now, as then, First National 
i s
 the dominant banking organization in Dade County, and its competitive 
a d
vantage vis-a-vis other Dade County banks continues to be so pronounced 
t h
at any action, other than internal growth, that would significantly 
Chance its market position must be regarded as having anticompetitive 
^Plications, The Board finds that Applicant's proposal poses adverse 
°topetitive consequences which, absent compelling countervailing circum-
s t
ance s, would require denial of the application. Accordingly, a determina-
ior
* must be made as to whether the evidence of record relating to the 
S s e
rted critical condition of Curtiss Bank clearly outweighs in the 
P u b
U c interest the anticompetitive effects of the proposal. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applx 
°ant has no financial or operating history; however, its pro forma 
ft 
nar
*cial condition and future prospects are considered satisfactory when 
evai 
u
ated in the light of the satisfactory condition and prospects of its 
Pti 
U c l
P a l proposed subsidiary, First National. The financial condition 
Prospects of First National's affiliate, Coral Way Bank, are considered 
actory. Applicant's management, proposed to consist of senior 
**fl C e r s
 and directors of First National, is regarded as experienced and 
C
*Pable > as is the management of Coral Way Bank. 
Curtiss National was organized in 1354. In its 13 years of 
°Peratl 
it has had 11 different presidents and its ownership has changed 
V 
a t, least si:: times. Analysis of Curtiss Bank's record of operation 

34 04 
-9-
f°r the 4-year period ending December 31, 1966, reflects a substantial 
a
nnual increase in the bank's loan and business losses. In the 4-year 
Period, those losses have aggregated approximately $1.3 million net of 
f
ecoveries# 
Financial data available to the Board as a supervisory 
a
^thority reflect that the volume and amount of loan losses in Curtiss 
have caused the bank's capital position to deteriorate to a critical 
level# 
On the basis of published figures, it appears that Bank's total 
C a
Pital accounts represented less than four cents for each dollar of 
^
e
Posits. Bank's volume of past due loans is excessive, and reflects the 
*>
e
nerally serious condition existing with respect to its loan portfolio. 
The foregoing facts are representative of those upon which the 
ra
Ptroller of the Currency has relied in submitting his strong recommenda-
tln that the Board approve Applicant's proposal. Specifically, the 
m
P t r o l l e r noted that Curtiss Bank's operation is presently sustained 
^ virtue of management provided by First National, and that if the proposed 
Cc
*
u
*-sition is approved, vitally necessary managerial resources would be 
a
£ £ 
°rded Curtiss Bank on a permanent basis, and that additional capital 
a
t least $1,200,000 would be provided by Applicant (up to $1,500,000, 
pending on the amount of Bank's stock acquired). The Comptroller has 
a t
ed that an immediate increase in Curtiss Bank's capital in the amount 
Posed by Applicant is "imperative". 
Curtiss Bank is the direct supervisory responsibility of the 
droller of the Currency. In appraising the merits of this application 
Board must rely heavily upon the views and recommendations of the 

^
0
5 
Comptroller. He has made quite clear his view that Curtiss Bank is in 
critical condition and that "there is no reasonable alternative to remedy 
(Curtiss Bank's] situation other than the proposal made by the applicant 
iri
 the subject application." 
On the basis of the analysis of Curtiss 
Bank's current and prospective financial condition rendered by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the accuracy of which is substantially re-
jected in the records available to the Board, the Board finds that Curtiss 
Sat
*fc's condition is critical and in need of immediate substantial financial 
atlcl
 managerial assistance, in the absence of which Bank's future cannot 
°
e r e
asonably assured. 
Convenience, needs, and welfare of the area concerned. -
e
sently > despite the management assistance of First National, Curtiss 
U^nk . 
is not totally serving the convenience and needs of its customers, 
ainly, should Bank cease operations, a reduction from three to two 
number of truly alternate banking sources would have a marked adverse 
f 
e c t
 on the convenience and needs of residents in the area. The record 
e c t
s that there is a considerable demand within Bank's service area 
for c 
commercial and industrial loans and assistance with respect to inter-
0r
ial business, the latter arising primarily because of Curtiss Bank's 
P t o
*imity to the Miami International Airport. The likelihood that without 
FLY. 
°
v
al of Applicant's proposal the community involved may be deprived of 
^
u
rti<j 
S s
 Bank as an alternate source of banking service offers compelling 
for approval of the application. If Curtiss Bank could continue to 
hk 
one area's banking requirements without acquisition by Applicant, it 

34 06 
- l i -
apparent that considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the area concerned would not warrant approval of this application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
S t a i n e d in the record, and in view of the strong recommendation for 
a
Pproval of this application submitted by the Comptroller of the Currency, 
a r i d
 in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it 
the Board's judgment that the anticompetitive effects found likely to 
re
sult from Applicant's proposed acquisition of Curtiss Bank are clearly 
^weighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. It is 
the Board's further judgment, therefore, that the proposed transaction would 
e
 ^ the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
H u s t 29, 1967. 

Item No. 5 
8/29/67 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
For the second time in five years First National Bank of 
Miami, the largest and, in all major respects, most dominant bank in 
the State of Florida, is before the Board seeking approval of a proposal 
t o
 form a bank holding company. 
In 1962 the Board denied approval of a proposal pursuant to 
Wiich four banks in Florida, of which First National was the largest, 
W o u l d
 have affiliated as subsidiaries of a bank holding company. That 
^
e
nial v?as premised upon the significant anticompetitive consequences that 
th 
e
 Board found were inherent in the proposal. In my judgment the present 
a
Pplication similarly involves significantly adverse consequences. 
This application is apparently primarily designed to secure 
"
e
deral Reserve authorization for First National Bank of Miami to come to 
rescue of Curtiss National Bank--a bank 70 per cent of whose stock is 
^ld by First National Bank as collateral to secure a loan of $1,750,000 or 
h e
*eabouts, a bank which has been managed since last spring by officers 
employees of First National Bank. Incidentally, however, approval of 
application would enable First National Bank of Miami to establish a 
banl 
c
 holding company, an action denied it heretofore because of its dominant 
s
ition in the area, and in addition would enable it to remove whatever 
of illegality surrounds its prior acquisition of the stock of 
C
°
ra
l Uay Bank. 
It is asserted that the application calls for hasty action in 
the emergency conditions prevailing in Curtiss National Bank. 
tylil 
0
 i am not in a position to challenge the correctness of the facts 

"2" 
3408 
asserted by Applicant, or the conclusions reached by the primary 
supervisory authority, in this regard, in view of the fact that Curtiss 
National has been subject to direct, on-the-ground management guidance 
First National's officers and employees for the past five months, I 
ata
 astounded to hear that an emergency condition now exists in Curtiss 
National, Furthermore, having taken part in numerous rescue operations 
^
U r
ing more than 30 years of experience in the bank supervisory field, 
*
 aia
 not satisfied that the establishment of a holding company is the 
°
nl
V available means of resolving problems like those Curtiss National is 
e
*Periencing and at the same time protecting the public interest. 
The record reflects that despite First National's intimate 
kn 
n
°wledge of the financial condition of Curtiss National Bank, it is still 
^ l i n g to pay (to its debtor, the majority stockholder of Curtiss 
C l o n a l , and other minority stockholders) a premium of $1,765,000—an 
°unt equal to nearly 9 per cent of Bank's total deposits—for stock 
e
gedly having little or no value, and in addition make a $1,500,000 
°
n t
Ubution to the capital of Curtiss National. This is a substantial 
Pti 
f o r the stock of a bank facing problems as serious as those 
•
r
ted with respect to Curtiss National. I am confident that First 
0 n
a l ' s directorate and staff would not countenance an investment of 
the 
Mature proposed, totaling around $3,765,000, without being completely 
c
e t t . that it is sound, desirable and potentially profitable, 
Curtiss 
V i 
is situated near the Miami International Airport, which is an 
t-u 
c
nat has experienced considerable industrial development in the past 

-3" 
3409 
decade and is considered by all to be a prime banking location. In these 
circumstances, it is not surprising that the record before the Board 
d
°es not contain substantiating documentation for the assertion that 
Applicant's proposal represents the only reasonable alternative solution 
f
°r Curtiss National. 
In view of 
(1) the significantly adverse,competitive consequences of an 
approval of the application, 
(2) my belief that a denial would not cause the failure of 
Curtiss National (it's hardly likely, as intimated, that First 
National would withdraw its management from Curtiss were the appli-
•• <: v:: 
cation to be denied, for it has at stake the protection of its own 
substantial loan secured by the stock of that bank), 
(3) my belief that, where avoidable, an easy short-run 
solution to a problem is not acceptable when the long-run con-
sequences are adverse to the public interest--as in this case, and 
(4) my unwillingness to respond even to an "emergency
1
" call 
in the absence of more evidence than is available in the record 
before us that there is no other available solution to the problem, 
*
 m u
st decline to approve the proposal. 
S u s t 29, 1967. 

34 i 0 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 6 
8/29/67 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 29, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Frederic S. Hirschler, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Hirschler: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment 
of Mr. A . B. Merritt as First Vice President of your Bank until 
F e b r u a r y 2 8 , 1 9 7 1 , the r e m a i n d e r of the s t a t u t o r y f i v e - y e a r 
term for that p o s i t i o n , at an a n n u a l salary rate of $ 3 1 , 0 0 0 for 
the period October 1 through December 31, 1967. 
The Board also approves the payment of salaries to 
Mr. John B. Williams, Vice President, at an annual rate of 
$17,500, and to Mr. Eugene A . Thomas, Assistant Cashier, at an 
annual rate of $12,500, both for the period October 1 through 
D e c e m b e r 3 1 , 1 9 6 7 . 
These rates are as fixed by your Board of Directors 
as reported in your letter of August 3, 1967. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 7 
O F T H E 
8 / 2 9 / 6 7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
. * •:; • 4 i .« • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 28, 1967 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear M r . Galusha: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 23, 1967, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Bernard John Shamla as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
effective September 5, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L . Carmichael 
Elizabeth L . Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

s a f e . . 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
8/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E 9 P Q N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 25, 1967 
Board of D i r e c t o r s , 
Santa Clarita National Bank, 
Newhall, California. 
91321 
G e n t l e m e n : 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, the Director of the Division 
o f
 Bank Operations of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, grants permission pursuant to the provisions of Section 19 
°f the Federal Reserve Act to the Santa Clarita National Bank to 
fcaintain the same reserves against deposits as are required to be 
maintained by banks not in reserve cities, effective as of July 24, 
1967, the date of purchase of a branch within the city limits of 
A n g e l e s . 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3413 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
8/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 29, 1967 
Mr. Harry W . Hurling, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
D e
a r Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
°
f
 August 24, 1967, the Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the designation of each of the following 
employees as a special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
B
ank of Cleveland: 
Richard L. Frede 
Wilbert Perry 
Ray Sexton 
Stephen Vogel 
Robert A. Atkins, Jr. 
J. Michael Walsh 
d 
Appropriate notations have been made on the names to be 
eleted from the list of special assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

, /v. •><;"• 
12 f ' 
' J. 
C O P Y 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF D A L L A S 
DALLAS, TEXAS 
7 5 2 2 2 
: m 1 4 
Item No. 10 
8/29/67 
J 
5 ... .. 
> 1 
August 28, 1967 
Rr« Robert 8. Baker 
Executive Administrator 
The Moody Foundation 
*03 Rational Hotel Building 
Galveston, Texas 77550 
Re: The Moody Foundation 
Dear Mr. Baker: 
This refers to the roquest contained In your letter 
of August 25, IQ67, for an extension of 60 days traa the date 
of expiration of the extension granted in our letter of July 3* 
1967, for the registration of The Moody Foundation as a bank 
holding coorpany under the Bask Hold lag Company Act as amended. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authorit/, this Bank has approved your request for 
an extension of time for registration. The Moody Foundation 
will be allowed until October 29, 1967, within which to register 
with the Board of Governors In accordance with the requirements 
of section 5 of the Act. 
Sincerely, 
Thcuifl R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
t>cc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reser
1
e System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
341 5 
Item No. 
8/29/67 
11 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 30, 1967 
Mr. J. L. Hardin, 
Assistant Chief Examiner, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Hardin: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 25, 1967, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
designation of James N . Augustine as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 12 
8/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 8, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
Acting under authority delegated by the Board, the Director 
the Division of Examinations has approved revision of pages 13, 21, 
2 l ( a ) , c, and D(2) of the report of examination (FR 410). 
A copy of 
each of the pages is enclosed and a supply is being forwarded under 
S e
parate cover to the Vice President in charge of the Examination 
department. 
Pages 21, 21(a), and D(2) were revised to reflect recent 
changes in the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 and the Banking Act 
1933. You will note that page 21 also reflects the recent changes 
inade in section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act. Page 13 has been 
revised to conform with the changes resulting from the Board's 
elegation of certain functions to the Reserve Banks, and page C 
as been changed to include the cease-and-desist language of the 
Financial Institutions Supervisory Act of 1966. 
The amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act extended 
c
°verage of the Act to long-term trusts and several previously exempt 
O r
ganizations and institutions, such as certain registered investment 
Companies and religious, charitable, and educational institutions. 
is important that members of your examining staff be familiar with 
jje Act and aware of changes in provisions of the statute, particularly 
^ose which define bank holding companies and related terms. In this 
r e
spect, it would be appreciated if you would have distributed to 
U r
 examining staff for study the enclosed memorandum and excerpt 
ections 2 and 3(a)) from the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended. 
En clo 
^ — 
Merritt Sheri 
sures 
To T
«E PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
8/29/67 
Item No 
August 29, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Pascagoula-Moss Point Bank 
Moss Point, Mississippi 
39563 
Dear Sirs: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A 
of the Federal Reserve Act, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank approves an additional 
investment in bank premises by Pascagoula-Moss Point 
Bank, Moss Point, Mississippi, of $44,587.50, in con-
nection with the purchase of two lots adjacent to the 
present bank building in Moss Point. 
BC: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Mr. 0. B. Bowen 
State Comptroller 
State of Mississippi 
SECRETARY'S DELEGATION DOCKET COPY 
