Minutes for 
January 8, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Cha i rma n 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Martin 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
C s j 

G 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 8, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Messrs. Shay and Sanders, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

84 
1/8/69 
-2-
Miss Ormsby and Mrs. Semia of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mrs. Duerson and Messrs. Doyle and Via of the 
Legal Division 
Miss Stockwell and Messrs. Erb, Fisher, Kichline, 
and Lawrence of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Sundberg of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Application of Bank of America (Item No. 1). A memorandum 
dated December 30, 1968, from the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion recommended approval of an application of Bank of America, New 
York, New York, for permission to continue to hold additional shares 
of Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation Limited, 
Karachi, Pakistan, that had been acquired without the Board's prior 
consent. 
Discussion related principally to the question whether the 
letter of consent should be amended to criticize the fact that the 
shares had been acquired, although on a conditional basis, prior to 
obtaining the Board's approval. Governor Brimmer counseled that 
strong language not be included in this instance inasmuch as it would 
shortly be announced that the general consent provisions of the Board's 
regulation, under which a transaction such as this one could be 
effected, were being partially reinstated. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to the sending of a 
letter to Bank of America in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank 

7 1 
1/8/69 
-3-
and Trust Company of Bethlehem, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, with First 
Valley Bank, also of Bethlehem, was approved unanimously for transmit-
tal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The conclusion 
stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
One-bank holding companies. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 2, 1969, from the Office of the Secretary 
relating to the study by the staff and consultants to facilitate 
formulation of a general policy of the Board on issues involved in 
the recent formation of one-bank holding companies and bank conglomera-
tion in general. Some of the projects connected with the study were 
incomplete. However, the staff's thinking had progressed to the point 
where some of the major issues involved, the conclusions reached, and 
certain proposals could be submitted to the Board for preliminary con-
sideration. Accordingly, an attached memorandum summarized and discussed 
the results of some of the assigned projects, presented a number of 
possible courses of action, and concluded with a tentative staff recom-
mendation. 
The issues involved were complex and their implications far-
reaching not only for the banking system but for the entire economy. 
The staff believed, at least tentatively, that banks should be afforded 
some relief from restrictive provisions of law and regulation that had 
their basic origin in an economic climate far different from the present 

1/8/69 
-4-
one. It was not believed that the concept of the business of banking 
should be changed so radically that banks would be allowed to do any-
thing they wished, subject only to general supervision and the anti-
trust laws. The staff was of the view, however, that holding companies 
should be permitted to engage in certain congeneric activities, some 
of which banks already were permitted to engage in through "operations 
subsidiaries." 
There was no unanimity among the staff regarding these 
conclusions; consequently a firm staff recommendation could not be 
presented at this time. However, for discussion purposes the following 
compromise recommendation for proposed legislation had been prepared: 
(1) Amend section 2 of the Bank Holding Company Act to include 
one-bank holding companies within the scope of the Act, but exempt bank 
holding companies with banking and nonbanking assets throughout the 
preceding calendar year of less than $30 million and $10 million, 
respectively, and those that were majority-owned by not more than six 
stockholders. 
(2) Amend section 4(c)(5) of the Act to permit holding compan-
ies to acquire shares of the kinds expressly authorized by statute for 
national banks. 
(3) Amend section 4(c)(8) to permit holding companies to 
acquire all the stock of corporations primarily engaged in the follow-
ing activities: 
(1) mortgages; (2) finance and factoring; (3) mutual 
funds; (4) insurance brokerage; (5) accounting; (6) data processing; 

73 
1/8/69 
-5-
(7) fiduciary; and (8) travel; and grant the Board authority to approve 
such other acquisitions as in its judgment, after opportunity for hear-
ing, were related to the business of banking, subject to such terms 
and condit ions as the Board might prescribe. 
The Board, it was pointed out, might wish also to consider 
including in any bill a prohibition against a holding company's engag-
ing in non-bank -related activities such as industrial or mercantile 
operations. 
The staff did not recommend inclusion of a "grandfather clause" 
in the proposed legislation. In the majority staff opinion, all hold-
ing companies, whenever formed, should be treated in the same manner 
and subjected to the same statutory standards with respect to nonbank-
ing activities. However, it would seem appropriate to provide for a 
divestment period for all holding companies not now subject to the Act 
to di spose of their nonbanking interests in an orderly manner. 
Chairman Martin suggested that the principal purpose of today's 
discussion be to work toward as broad an agreement as possible on a 
general position that could serve as a basis for discussion with the 
new Administration and with the other bank supervisory agencies, as 
well as a framework for proposed legislation at the appropriate time. 
He then invited the tentative views of the Board members. These views, 
as developed in the ensuing discussion, are summarized in the following 
paragraphs. 

1/8/69 
-6-
Governor Mitchell said that his approach had been to consider 
first the question of conglomeration. After studying the material 
prepared by the staff, he was inclined to advocate not foreclosing 
conglomerates involving banks once and for all. It must be recognized 
that institutions change, and it was possible that banks would be more 
useful in developing a stronger economy if they could be included in 
conglomerates within limits. 
Governor Mitchell agreed with the suggestion that companies 
that were majority-owned by not more than six shareholders be exempted 
from the requirements of the Bank Holding Company Act, but he had 
reservations about an exemption based on size alone. In a town, for 
example, there could be a bank and a real estate company that were 
both relatively small but still dominated their community. 
The staff 
studies had mentioned the possibility of relating size to markets, and 
that might be a proper approach. 
Governor Mitchell had not found anything in the Board's expe-
rience with conglomerates and one-bank holding companies that was too 
helpful in determining what activities should or should not be permitted. 
Banks were eager to get into congeneric businesses, but the anticompet-
itive implications were quite important. It was necessary to be 
cautious about permitting congeneric formations through which banks 
could acquire a dominant market position in a moderately short time. 
While he would not object to congenerics that did not result in diminu-
tion of competition, some congenerics could have serious competitive 

1/8/69 
-7-
effects. He had not thought through the question sufficiently to 
develop a firm view as to what kinds of activities should be permitted 
or what kinds of restrictions should be imposed, but the points he had 
made indicated the general framework within which he thought most of 
the issues the staff had developed should be considered. 
Governor Daane agreed that the first question to be faced was 
• . • > • 
that of conglomeration. 
It was desirable to see banks grow as finan-
cial institutions and have sufficient flexibility to meet the changing 
environment. He had leaned toward the idea that if a permissible area 
for conglomerates could be delineated satisfactorily, they could be 
tolerated within those limits. With proper safeguards, he did not see 
that there were necessarily greater dangers and risks in some types of 
conglomerates than in congenerics. 
Governor Daane shared Governor Mitchell's misgivings about a 
size break for exempting holding companies. 
It might be possible to 
rationalize an arbitrary size break on the grounds of improving the 
prospects for legislation, but he disliked the implication. 
Overall, 
he 
would accept the staff proposal as a basis for talking with other 
agencies, except that he favored the use of a grandfather clause. 
Governor Maisel stated that he had no reluctance in drawing a 
line 
against conglomerates because the entire background of legislation 
a
nd public policy recognized that banks enjoyed a privileged position. 
The historical approach had been that it was up to banks to show that 

1/8/69 
-8-
going into any area would have positive benefits and cost savings. 
However, the permission for activities "related to the business of 
banking" had caused difficulties under the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956, and he suggested instead the use of language such as "related 
to the business of banking or where the bank can show positive econ-
omies by going into a particular area." 
Governor Maisel observed that the use of a size measurement 
for applicability of the law was tantamount to saying that up to the 
point of the size specified an activity was permissible for either an 
individual or a corporation, but beyond that point it must be regulated. 
The use of a corporation brought certain tax advantages, and the speci-
fication of a size limit in effect meant that the corporate form could 
be used to obtain those advantages up to about the same magnitude of 
activity that a person could conduct as an individual, but not much 
beyond that point. From that point of view, he believed the size 
break was logical. However, it should be stated in whatever terms the 
Internal Revenue Service used for granting the tax advantages. 
Governor Maisel favored the use of a grandfather clause and 
would set the date back to July 1968. He suggested that such a clause 
might be in terms of nonapplicability to a holding company so long as 
it and its affiliates entered into no further acquisitions or mergers, 
whether bank or nonbank. 
Governor Maisel believed that care should be exercised with 
respect to the proposal to amend section 4(c)(5) to permit holding 

84 
1/8/69 
-9-
companies to acquire shares of the kind national banks were expressly 
authorized by statute to purchase. That proposal affected the question 
of subsidiaries and affiliates within the meaning of section 5136 of 
the Revised Statutes. If the controversy with respect to interpreta-
tion of that section could be resolved, it might be possible to extri-
cate the whole question of operations subsidiaries from the morass in 
which he considered it to be at present. If banks were to be authorized 
to enter into certain activities through holding companies, there ought 
to be a decision whether the same operations could be conducted through 
subsidiaries. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the list of activities considered 
appropriate for banks should be thought through thoroughly. In his 
view, the activities should be chosen according to whether they were 
bank-related or whether they were activities through which banks could 
effect economies. He noted that although real estate investment and 
equipment leasing were mentioned as possible congeneric activities in 
the di scussion sections of the principal memorandum, they were not 
li sted in the recommendation for statutory specification of permitted 
activities. 
Governor Maisel felt strongly that guidelines should be spelled 
°ut that would require a holding company to apply for a permit to 
acquire a corporation, even for a listed congeneric activity, with the 
assumption that the Board could rule against the acquisition if need 

73 
1/8/69 
-10-
be, and with the holding company having the right to seek judicial 
review. He would not be reluctant to write a size break specifically 
into the guidelines. 
In response to an inquiry about local monopolies, Governor 
Maisel commented that it appeared from history and legislation that 
if an individual was allowed to engage in certain activities, a corpo-
ration should be allowed to engage in them to the same extent. 
There were several points, Governor Maisel said in summary, 
that he would stress more than the staff had, among them that the law 
looked upon banks as enjoying a favored position and that there must 
be justification for entry by banks into any new field of operation. 
Also, there seemed to be some confusion in the staff material regard-
ing the adequacy of the safeguards in section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act, dealing with relations of member banks with affiliates. 
He believed that legislative proposals regarding one-bank holding 
companies ought to be accompanied by recommendations for clarification 
°f section 23A. 
Governor Brimmer said he subscribed to virtually all of the 
staff's suggestions. He held the basic view that, whatever organiza-
tional form banks might take, they should be restricted to areas in 
which they could have expertise. A presumption that bank management 
was capable of running a steel mill could be dismissed without further 
consideration. Instead of such non-bank-related activities, he thought 

_ 
7 9 
1/8/69 
-11-
there should be a search for appropriate new avenues of bank financing. 
For example, he would like to see the Board encourage banks to create 
domestic subsidiaries to support urban rehabilitation, perhaps supply-
ing some equity capital. 
He was in favor of a size break for exemption from the law, 
Governor Brimmer continued, and he believed a grandfather clause was 
necessary. He did not consider that the Board's interest in the general 
problem should be said to have arisen only with the new generation of 
bank-sponsored holding companies; the Board had advocated for many 
years that one-bank holding companies be brought within the coverage 
°f the Act. He hoped that the Board would try to obtain legislation 
in the near future. Although he would not want to pass judgment on 
the probability of passage, he thought the Board should put before the 
Congress a package reflecting its best judgment of how to cope with 
the problem, and he would favor the inclusion of guidelines such as 
Governor Maisel had suggested. He was prepared to work in coordination 
with the other bank supervisory agencies, but if they could not be 
Persuaded to join in the effort he believed that the Board should itself 
make proposals to the Congress. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he believed the staff's sugges-
tions were excellent, and he agreed with Governor Brimmer's recommenda-
tion that the Board move forward rapidly with proposed legislation. 
He 
saw the problem primarily as one requiring reaction to an existing 

84 
1/8/69 
-12-
circumstance that was moving out of control. Although the staff sug-
gestions might not be the best possible solution on a long-term basis, 
they represented a practical approach to achieving some kind of control 
quickly. If corrective legislation were not achieved in the present 
session of Congress, it would be practically impossible later to unwind 
the corporate relationships that were being established. If the situa-
tion could be brought under control promptly, supervisory requirements 
could be adjusted later on either a liberal or conservative basis. 
Governor Sherrill shared the view that the first question to 
be resolved was that of conglomerates. From a banker's point of view 
it would be highly attractive to be able, through a holding company, 
to expand into any desired activity without restriction. However, the 
result might be that eventually every business would be related to a 
bank and every bank to a business, because businesses that were not 
related to banks would be at a disadvantage. 
This kind of business-
bank structure would represent a major change in the present economic 
system. The key feature was allocation of credit, a function performed 
under the free enterprise system by the banks, with an existing-customer 
bias. Under the conglomerate structure there would be a different 
bias--the bias of affiliation. He was not prepared to see this pro-
found a change in the system at the present time. If it was to come 
about, he would like to see it come more slowly. 
Governor Sherrill noted that the line drawn between banking 
at
*d commerce rested on special privileges enjoyed by banks. 
Because 

73 
1/8/69 
-13-
of these privileges and protections, he did not believe banks should 
be allowed to compete in any field they chose. Conversely, he did not 
believe that nonbank corporations should be able to acquire banks 
freely. The present problem arose because banks had been unduly 
restricted in their growth and had not been able to maintain their 
relative positions. They felt that situation was unfair and had sought 
a solution in the one-bank holding company, a solution that had some 
unhealthy aspects. 
Governor Sherrill noted that it was difficult to draw the line 
between what was truly congeneric and what was not. He liked the idea 
°f specifying in the law certain areas that banks would be automatically 
permitted to enter, because such a provision would demonstrate that 
growth would be allowed. He also liked the idea of possible expansion 
into a basket of other activities, upon permission, although this 
appeared to mean that many problems would have to be decided on a 
case-by-case basis. 
Governor Sherrill favored a grandfather clause, perhaps of the 
type Governor Maisel had suggested. Also, he agreed with the idea of 
an exemption based on size limitations and number of shareholders. 
Although the size limitation would have to be arbitrary, it had the 
t a
ctical benefit of improving the prospect of legislation. He did 
not believe the proposed legislation should attempt to deal with the 
Problem of local monopolies. There were other methods of addressing 

84 
1/8/69 
-14-
such situations, and the organizations were not of a type or size to 
have an effect on the over-all economy. 
Governor Robertson said he thought it was incumbent upon the 
Board to bring forth a proposal soon. He was pleased with the posi-
tion the staff had taken, which with a few exceptions was similar to 
the position he had taken some months ago. One exception was the 
exemption of one-bank holding companies owned by no more than six 
shareholders. He did not know what institutions that would cover, 
and he had not thought through the question of a holding company 
owned by a holding company so that there would be only one shareholder. 
His position on this point remained flexible. 
Governor Robertson then said that his main point of difference 
with the staff related to the proposal to amend section 4(c)(8) to 
permit bank holding companies automatically to go into several different 
areas. He preferred to leave such permission to regulation rather than 
specify it by statute, simply because he did not see how it was possible 
t o
 spell out in a statute the necessary limitations and kinds of activ-
ities that would be permissible. He would leave with the administering 
agency the power to set such limitations as it saw fit. A regulation 
w
a s easier to write than a statute, and it could be amended more easily. 
Governor Robertson thought the exemption of small institutions 
could be rationalized; from a pragmatic point of view it would have to 
be included if there was to be any hope of getting legislation. 
The 

1/8/69 
-15-
big goal was the new crop of one-bank holding companies, whether bank 
originated or business originated. 
He could not accept a grandfather clause, Governor Robertson 
continued. There had been a rush to get in under the wire, and he 
could not put his blessing on that. Moreover, the mere preclusion of 
further expansion would mean that during the period when legislation 
was being considered rampant growth into new areas would be stimulated. 
Governor Robertson agreed that there should be companion legis-
lation to authorize banks to set up subsidiary corporations to cope 
with urban development problems. That need would have to be met in 
any event, and it seemed appropriate to let a proposal accompany the 
one-bank holding company recommendation. 
Governor Robertson believed the Board probably would want to 
offer legislative proposals before the Administration arrived at that 
point. He suggested that Mr. Cardon comment on the progress being 
made by the Congressional Committees on Banking and Currency. The 
wore fully the Committees developed their own proposals, the more 
difficult it would be to have the Board's version accepted instead. 
Mr. Cardon commented that while the staff of the House Commit-
tee was working on legislation, it appeared that at least two or three 
weeks would elapse before a draft bill was produced. The Committee 
staff would like to achieve as much agreement as possible with the 
Board's thinking, because the measure would probably encounter difficulty 

8 4 
1/8/69 
-16-
in enactment. 
The Senate Committee staff appeared to be thinking more 
in terms of merely freezing the present situation and calling for 
appointment of a Presidential study commission. 
Governor Brimmer reverted to the question of specifying in the 
statute the kinds of activities permissible for bank holding companies. 
He was convinced that there was a need for statutory specification, 
because he had observed a reluctance among people with whom he had 
talked simply to leave the matter to regulation. 
It would seem desir-
able also that bank holding companies be able to see in the statute what 
kinds of activities were considered appropriate. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the statute might mention 
certain activities as permissible types, still subject to approval by 
the Board under regulation. One advantage of regulation was that it 
could be adapted to a banking situation as it changed in the course of 
years ahead without having to go back for further legislation. 
After further discussion it was understood that the staff would 
proceed with drafting legislation in the light of the views that had 
been expressed, for the Board's further consideration. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Kenyon, Molony, Hexter, Farrell, O'Connell, Kiley, and Ring. 
Federal Reserve notes. Mr. Farrell related that the Treasury 
was preparing to issue one-dollar Federal Reserve notes bearing the 
signature of Secretary of the Treasury Barr, who had assumed that 

1/8/69 
-17-
office following the resignation of former Secretary Fowler in the 
latter part of December. The first would be notes of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. The Treasury wanted to requisition the 
initial run, it being understood that the Treasury would assemble 
a set of the notes that it would sell to Mr. Barr. 
In discussion it was noted that any short run of notes bearing 
the signature of Mr. Barr might have numismatic value. 
Explanation 
was made as to why it would not be feasible, because of technical com-
plications, to include Mr. Barr's signature on all notes being produced. 
Chairman Martin then commented that he considered it important 
that the Federal Reserve not place itself in a position of incurring 
any unusual expense or of engaging in any irregular procedure. 
He 
noted that in a matter of this kind any such irregularity would be 
likely to result in adverse publicity. 
It was agreed that the Chairman would talk with Secretary Barr 
! 
and point out questions that might be raised before Mr. Farrell dis-
"
 1
 * i; , 
cussed further with the Treasury the procedure that apparently was 
contemplated. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

86 
\ 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/8/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 8, 19 69. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10004 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of September 11, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to continue to hold additional 32,986 shares of 
stock of Pakistan Industrial Credit and Investment Corporation 
Limited, Karachi, Pakistan, which were acquired at a cost of ap-
proximately $79,870 on the condition of receiving appropriate 
approval for the investment from the Board of Governors. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved was made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activi-
ties of your Corporation, Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, and Bamerical International Financial Corporation, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
