MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 18, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
Squired to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of minutes 
^ 
commencing on the page and dealing with the subject referred to below. 
Page 2 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
reduction at Federal Reserve Banks of 
Philadelphia, St. Louis, and Kansas City. 

461 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
o n Friday, February 18, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
"KVU UiCi.u 
" 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
The staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
ha^e been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the indi-
vidual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed matters of interest to the Federal 
serve presently being considered by the Congress. 
°ther officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

462 
2/18/72 
-2-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. 
On February 10, 1972, the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had established, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4 per cent (a 
decrease from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for and advances to member 
banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
In addi-
on February 17, 1972, the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks 
Philadelphia and Kansas City had established discount rates of 4-1/4 
and 4 p e r centj respectively. 
The three Banks had also acted to estab-
lish appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under 
other sections of the Act. 
(The Board had previously denied on January 31, 
» a proposal by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis to reduce the 
lscount rate from 4-1/2 to 4 per cent and had discussed on February 14, 
^72, a renewed proposal for such a reduction by the St. Louis Bank.) 
During the discussion there developed a majority view against 
a discount rate reduction at this time. The discussion focused on the 
Averse impact which such a move might have on the international position 
the dollar. In particular, it was suggested that the proposed reduc-
ti 
° n might trigger additional selling pressure against the dollar in 
£°reign exchange markets at a time when those markets were already 
Settled by uncertainties regarding the sustainability of recently 
eStahlished dollar exchange rates. With regard to the domestic economy, 

463 
2/18/72 
-2-
it was agreed that a reduction would not have a significant impact in 
stimulating economic activity, but the view was expressed that a lower 
discount rate would be desirable in view of the relatively low level of 
short-term interest rates. 
It was noted, however, that member bank 
borrowings were low, and it was concluded that on the basis of current 
Monetary policy there was no need to encourage such borrowings by a 
lower discount rate. 
There followed a discussion of the effect a discount rate 
reduction might have on long-term market rates. A majority supported 
view that a reduction at this juncture might tend to depress long-
term rates, but it was believed this effect was likely to prove temporary 
i'v.., 
a n d a reduction might well foster undesirable expectations regarding the 
\ > A i.i <5t 
..; , v . > 
r-.., 
1H ' * 
J ) i 
> ' t , 
:, t\ J V C i M •• . Hi 
future course of monetary policy. 
' 
, • , 
J. 
• . 
' ' ..... ' 
After further brief discussion, the rate actions taken by the 
VO- 
' 
three Federal Reserve Banks were disapproved by unanimous vote, with 
ttle understanding that the Banks would be so advised promptly, and that 
•{ £ 
; 
. 
• 
• 
... 
. . . . . 
letters outlining the considerations involved in the Board's decision 
would also be sent. Copies of the letters sent to the three Banks are 
-onfit,;, 
attached under Item No. 1. 
It.'.. 
Other discount rates. The Board then approved unanimously 
actions taken by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York and San Francisco 
: 
>.-.% . . 
. ,• 
. ... .... 
, 
. i 
. .. 
; •!... ' 
February 17, 1972, establishing without change the rates on discounts 
Lt ^lAt-rch, y-vMu orth Ohio, avJ ^ j c ^ i j ^ i 
-
a n d advances in their existing schedules, with the understanding that 
aPPr0priate advice would be sent to the respective Banks. 

464 
2/18/72 
-2-
The following then entered the meeting for consideration of 
the remainder of today's agenda: 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Anderson and Smith, Assistant Directors, Division 
of Administrative Services 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
o.r r 
XL?-'« 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
Co c 
and statement reflecting denial on January 21, 1972, of the application 
First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc., Waco, Texas, to acquire shares 
the successors by reorganization to Bellmead State Bank, Waco, and 
• 
It !...'',• , ' • 
; , . 
. its. . • 
a s t Texas Bank & Trust Company, Longview, and the successors by merger 
to Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore, and Sabine National Bank of Port 
^rthur, Port Arthur, all in Texas. Copies of the order and statement 
a r e attached under Item No. 2. The Board also approved a letter to 
jjij 
lrst Southwest Bancorporation making a preliminary determination of 
c°ntr0l with respect to the four banks named above. A copy is attached 
a S Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of Huntington 
jig 
ar*cshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The First 
-onal Bank of Wadsworth, Wadsworth, Ohio, and authorized the issuance 
l 

465 
2/18/72 
-5-
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a s Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of United Banks 
Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The St. Vrain 
Galley Bank, Longmont, Colorado, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
l£em_No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Report on competitive factors. The Board approved unanimously, 
transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, a report 
° n the competitive factors involved in the proposed acquisition of 
assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of American National Bank, 
S a lt Lake City, Utah, by Tracy-Collins Bank and Trust Company, Salt 
^ake City, Utah. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Tracy-Collins 
Bank and Trust Company, Salt Lake City, and American 
National Bank, Salt Lake City, would eliminate existing 
competition and potential for increased competition between 
them. The overall effect of the proposed merger on competi-
tion would be adverse. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Y. At its meeting on February 17, 
the Board requested that the staff draft a proposed amendment to 
Ilia 
ion Y, Bank Holding Companies, which would add real property 
basing to the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies, 
a memorandum dated February 17, 1972, the Legal Division submitted 
" draft of the proposed amendment for the Board's consideration. 

Following discussion of the circumstances in which property 
leasing would be permissible, several changes in the wording of the 
Proposed amendment were agreed upon. These included specifying one 
^ar, rather than two years, for liquidation of real property assets 
following expiration of a lease in the event that a lessee failed to 
exercise an option to purchase the property. 
The Board thereupon authorized publishing for comment the 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Y. A copy of the notice published in 
' a; 
. 
the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 6. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
\v. o-H 
•• .... 
Martin Building. 
In a memorandum dated February 11, 1972, 
Governor Sheehan recommended approval of change orders for the Martin 
Building totaling approximately $515,000. These would involve changes 
4 ili 
l n occupancy plans, modification of certain construction elements, and 
Providing additional toilet facilities with a view to provide maximum 
flexibi lity in the utilization of the new building. 
V J t r t I 
* • : 
, ' 
The recommendation was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

467 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
2/18/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
February 18, 1972 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
£>oar Mr. Eastburn: 
The Board of Governors took action today to dis-
approve the pending reduction in your Bank's discount rate 
from 4-1/2 to 4-1/4 per ccnt which your directors voted to 
Establish on February 17. 
In reaching its decision the Board 
reviewed a variety of considerations and concluded that 
reduction would not bo appropriate at this time in li^ht of 
the current international uncertainties and the weakness of 
the dollar in foreign exchange markets. 
The Board also took 
^otc of the low level of member bank borrowings and decided 
fchere was no need to encourage such borrowings by a lower 
rate as a part of current monotary policy. 
May I add that the Board, while reaching a judgment 
that differs from that of your Bank's directors, appreciates 
having the benefit of their views and wishes to thank them for 
^e expression of their considered judgment in fulfilling their 
' c^tutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
C: Mr, Bayard L. England, Chairman 
Federal Preserve Bank of Philadelphia 

B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
E 3 0 A F . D 
February 18, 1972 
Mr. Darryl P., Francis, President 
federal Reserve Bank of St, Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors took action today to dis-
approve tho pending reduction in your Bank's discount rate 
from 4-1/2 to 4 per ccnt which your directors voted to 
establish on February 10. In reaching itc decision the 
Board reviewed a variety of considerations and concluded 
that a reduction v/ould not be appropriate at this time in 
light of the curront international uncertainties and the weak-
ness of the dollar in foreign exchange markets. 
The Board 
fclao took note of the low level of member bank borrowings 
and decided there was no need to encourage such borrowings 
by a lov/er rate as a part of current monetary policy. 
May I add that the Board, while reaching a judgment 
that differs from that of your Bank's directors, appreciates 
having the benefit of their views and wishes to thank them for 
the expression of their considered judgment in fulfilling their 
statutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
C c! IAr. Frederic M, Peirce, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 

B D A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
469 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 18, 1972 
George H. Clay, President 
•federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Ivttsseuri 64193 
kcar Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors took action tdday to dis-
approve the pending reduction in your Bank's discount rate 
o m 4—1/2 to 4 per cent which ycur direct ore voted to 
establish on February 17. 
In reaching its decision the Board 
^viewed a variety of considerations and concluded that a 
r eduction would not he appropriate at tins time in light of 
current international uncertainties and the weakness 
ei the dollar in foreign exchange markets. 
The Board also 
eok note of the low level of member bank borrowings and 
ecided there was no need to encourage such borrowings 
V * lower rate as a part of current monetary policy. 
t, 
^ 
kfoy 1 add that the Board, while reaching a judgment 
differs from that of your Bank's directors, appreciates 
3-vinrr the benefit of their views and wishes to thank them for 
expression of their considered judgment in fulfilling their 
statutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
t.v 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
CC: Mr. Robert Vy\ Wagotaff 
federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 

470 
Item No. 2 
2/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST SOUTHWEST BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Banks 
First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc., Waco, Texas, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
^ 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualify-
shares) of the successors by reorganization to Bellmead State Bank, 
Waco and East Texas Bank & Trust Company, Longview, and the successors 
by Merger to Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore, and Sabine National Bank 
0 f port Arthur, Port Arthur, all in Texas. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
v*ews has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the applications are denied for 
ceasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
V 
f o r tllis action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
» Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

471 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY 
FIRST SOUTHWEST BANCORPORATION, INC., WACO, TEXAS, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
BELLMEAD STATE BANK, WACO, 
EAST TEXAS BANK & TRUST COMPANY, LONGVIEW, 
KILGORE NATIONAL BANK, KILGORE, AND 
SABINE NATIONAL BANK OF PORT ARTHUR, PORT ARTHUR, ALL IN TEXAS 
First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc., Waco, Texas, a registered 
bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842 
for prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less 
Sectors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of the successors 
by ^organization to Bellmead State Bank, Waco ("Bellmead Bank"), and 
E a s t Texas Bank & Trust Company, Longview ("Longview Bank"), and the 
l e s s o r s by merger to Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore ("Kilgore Bank"), 
and Sabine National Bank of Port Arthur, Port Arthur ("Port Arthur 
^nk")> a l l l n T e x a s # 
Th e banks into which the four named existing 
are to be reorganized or merged have significance only insofar 
they are a means of acquiring all of the shares of those four banks. 
Ac 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
0tSanl2atlons is treated herein as the proposed acquisitions of existing 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant controls one bank, 
JL 
6 First National Bank of Waco, Waco, Texas ("First National"), with 
dep°sits of approximately $118.5 million, representing 0.4 per cent of 
t 0 t a l commercial bank deposits in the State. Applicant also owns 
*9 Per cent of voting shares of the Kilgore Bank, and 24.9 per cent 
0 ^ t h e voting shares of the Bellmead Bank, Longview Bank, Port Arthur 

472 
-2-
Bank, and First Bank and Trust of Richardson, Richardson, Texas ("Richardson 
Bank"). 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding 
Coinpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through January, 
1979 \ 
•' State-wide concentration of banking resources would not be signi-
f J 
cantly affected as a result of consummation of the subject proposal. 
Applicant's First National Bank and Bellmead Bank are both 
located within the Waco SMSA, which approximates the relevant banking 
^rket with respect to the proposed acquisition of Bellmead Bank. On 
the basis of deposits, First National Bank, the largest of seven banks 
Within Waco and of 14 banks within the market, controls 35 per cent of 
the market's commercial bank deposits; Bellmead Bank is the seventh 
lar8est bank in the market, controlling 3.6 per cent of market deposits. 
In Edition, Applicant's principal stockholder holds, as an individual 
a J* i 
Qs Trustee, majority control of First Financial Corporation, a 
M i s t e r e d bank holding company, owning 25.6 per cent of Bellmead Bank 
a j 
per cent of Westview National Bank, Waco, Texas. Westview 
National Bank, with deposits of $17.5 million, is the fifth largest 
batlk Within Waco and the market, and has 5 per cent of market deposits. 
0ttl Bellmead Bank and the Westview National Bank were organized by 
cipals of First National Bank and existing competition between 
three banks is regarded as minimal. The combined deposits of 
three banks represent 48 per cent of total Waco deposits and 
43 5 
Per cent of total market deposits. The deposits of these three 
s> when combined with the deposits of the second largest banking 

473 
-3-
in the Waco banking market* places 75 per cent of total 
^rket deposits under control or influence of the two largest banking 
0r8aniZations within the market. Denial of the Bellmead application 
WoulH 
not alter existing relationships. Nevertheless, the size of the 
^rket and the concentration of bank resources within the market are 
SUch that, despite the existing relationship, competitive considerations 
regarded as slightly adverse. 
Kilgore Bank, with deposits of $16.3 million, and Longview 
» with deposits of $13.6 million, are both located in Gregg County 
» together with adjoining portions of Harrison and Rusk Counties, 
lO^tQ f., 
tne relevant banking market. Kilgore Bank is the largest of two banks 
^Igore and the seventh largest in the market area, while Longview 
Bank 
the fourth largest bank in Longview, and the ninth largest 
>««k t n the market. The combined deposits of the two banks would 
fcalci 
Applicant the third largest banking organization in the market 
* * U . 2 per cent of total market deposits. The two banks have 
a ^filiated since late 1968, when Applicant's principal share-
and affiliated persons and entities acquired control. Absent 
thl. 
M i 
recent common control, it is reasonably concluded that the two 
8 would compete to some extent. Competitive considerations re-
ed 
n«ht h 
acquisition of both the Longview and Kilgore Bank are re-
a s slightly adverse. 
Port Arthur Bank,with deposits of $18.7 million, is the 
*Qrgest bank in its market controlling 3 per cent of market deposits. 
Arth 
ur Bank is located almost 200 miles away from the closest of 

474 
-3-
^e other banks in which Applicant has an interest. There is no signi-
ficant competition between them. Competitive considerations with 
respect 
to Port Arthur Bank are regarded as consistent with approval. 
Factors relating to the convenience and needs of the com-
involved are consistent with, but do not provide significant 
8uPport for approval of the application. Although the 
CoriVet\ience and needs aspects are slightly favorable and the com-
petitive effects of the proposed acquisitions, considered alone, 
fly. e not serious enough to bar approval, the Board's inquiry does not 
ftw 
1 
na there. 
The Board believes that a holding company should be a 
8°u*ce of financial and managerial strength for the banks in its 
System> rather than vice versa, and that every proposed acquisition 
'^id be 
closely examined to determine whether it serves certain 
Private interests to the undue disadvantage of the interests of the 
bgni 
° r its minority shareholders. In this regard, the history of 
Pp**cant and its previous relationships with the banks to be ac-
qulred ts relevant. 
Applicant's principal shareholder and affiliated persons 
entities controlled at least 51 per cent of Bellmead Bank, 
°n&view Bank, Kilgore Bank, Port Arthur Bank, and Richardson Bank 
^ntn 
4 mid-December 1970, at which time, Applicant acquired from 
^bove-named its present less than 25 per cent ownership interest 
a c h of the above banks. At the same time, Applicant also pur-
8 e d from its principal shareholder all the shares of Fidelity 

475 
- 3 -
Services Corporation, Waco, Texas, a bank management and service company. 
In return, the principal shareholder and affiliated persons and entities 
received Applicant's two-year promissory notes as payment. Taking into 
account the differences between the sale for promissory notes and the 
st°ck exchanges contemplated in the present transactions, the price per 
8hare paid to the principal stockholder and affiliated persons and entities 
ln December, 1970, appears to greatly exceed the approximate value to be 
offered for the remaining shares. The price per share paid to the principal 
st°ckholder and affiliated persons and entities also appears to be far in 
G*cess of the price per share originally paid by them and far in excess of 
t h e book value of the shares. Applicant has not justified the substantial 
diaParity between the prices the principal shareholder and affiliated 
persons and entities received and the approximate value offered in the 
Pr°Posed transactions. As the Board has on a number of occasions stated, 
the failure to make an equivalent offer to minority shareholders is viewed 
A o 
a n adverse circumstance in consideration of an application (e.g., 1971 
415 and 688). 
Further concern as to whether Applicant would be a source of 
Strei*gth to its subsidiary banks arises with respect to the relationship 
b*tween Applicant's subsidiary, Fidelity Services Corporation, and the 
Pr°Posed subsidiary banks. Fidelity Services Corporation has received 
Inana8ement fees from the banks involved which in some instances, in the 
°Pinion of the Board and other supervisory authorities, appear to be 
*Xcessive. To the extent that such fees are excessive, their imposition 
as °Perated to the detriment of the bank's minority shareholders and 
Possibly to the bank itself. 

-6-
Applicant contends that the Board's judgment on these applica-
ti-0ns should not be affected by transactions taking place prior to the 
1 9 7 0 Amendments to the Holding Company Act, that the proposals before 
Board are separate from those transactions, and that these previous 
transactions have been fully disclosed to shareholders, who, in any 
eVent, have a statutory right of dissent. The Board notes that although 
disclosure asserted by Applicant was made at a later date, the 
^tial proxy solicitation with respect to two of the banks did not make 
Uch disclosure and that Applicant has withdrawn an application where a 
Subst-antial number of dissenting votes were cast against reorganization. 
n any event, the Board's decision is not based on a subjective judgment 
Particular shareholders' feelings, but rather on a judgment of general 
anagement attitude toward the operations of the proposed subsidiary banks 
Elected by the totality of circumstances discussed. The Board 
Ul*able to conclude that considerations relating to the management 
facto 
o r are consistent with approval of Applicant's proposals. 
While denial of the applications may not immediately 
c t the existing relationships, approval would make these relation-
8 more permanent and would represent Board sanction of the treat-
ment a 
accorded by Applicant to both minority shareholders and the banks 
Ved. The public interest would not be served by such action. 
In light of the above, it is the Board's judgment that 
°P°sed transactions would not be in the public interest and 
8h°Uld not be approved, 
> 
Ua*y 
1972 

4 7 7 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• r 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
2/18/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 18, 1972 
First Southwest Banc.orporation, Inc. 
244 First National Building 
W aco, Texas 
76701 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to 12 Code of Federal Regulations 225.2, the Board 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System has made a preliminary 
^-termination that First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc., Waco, Texas, 
G*erciscs a controlling influence over the management and policies 
o f Bellmead State Bank, Waco; East Texas Bank and & Trust Company, 
Longview; Kilgore National Bank, Kilgore; and Sabine National Bank 
o f Port Arthur, Port Arthur, all in Texas. The determination was 
based on the following facts: 
1. First Southwest owns more than 5 per cent of a 
class of voting securities of the four banks, while First 
Southwest*s officers and directors hold shares of the four 
which, when aggregated with First Southwest's holdings, will 
constitute more than 25 per cent of a class of voting securi-
ties of each of the four banks. 
2. First Southest provides the four banks with a 
variety of services ordinarily only provided in such combina-
tion and to such extent by a bank holding company for its 
subsidiary. 
3. The Chairman of the Board of Applicant is a director 
of three of the banks, and another director of Applicant is 
a director of all four of the banks. 
As required by 12 Cocle of Federal Regulations 225.2(c), 
P i rst Southwest must notify the Board (1) whether it will terminate 
control relationships, or (2) whether it will report and comply 
V ith all requirements of Federal banking law in a manner consistent 

First Southwest Bancorporation, Inc. 
—2— 
with the subsidiary status of the four banks or (3) of the basis on 
Which it wishes to contest the Board's preliminary determination that 
First Southwest exercises a controlling influence over the management 
and policies of the four banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

479 
Item No. 4 
2/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Com 
P a n
y Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
0f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more 
Of J.L. 
e voting shares of The First National Bank of Wadsworth, 
Wadsworth, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
Uc* views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
a l 1 comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
itl 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has 10 subsidiary banks holding aggregate 
eP°sits of approximately $880.9 million, representing 4,0 per cent 
of t. 
n e commercial bank deposits in Ohio, Acquisition of Bank would 
In 
ncrease Applicant's control of commercial bank deposits in the 
e by 
approximately 0.1 per cent, and Applicant's rank as the 
iHth largest banking organization in the State would remain unchanged, 
^ 2 , 2 million in deposits) is the eleventh largest of fourteen 
b^i 
8 
the Akron banking market (approximated by Summit and Portage 
Utlties and the City of Wadsworth), controlling 1.6 per cent of 

" 480 
• 2 ** 
mQrkefc deposits* 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect 
h°lditig company formations and acquisitions approved through December 31, 
The nearest subsidiary of Applicant to Bank is the Portage 
National Bank ("Portage Bank") in Kent, located 25 miles northeast 
of Bank. Although Portage Bank competes in the Akron banking market, 
^°lding 4.6 per cent of market deposits, direct competition between 
B a n k and Portage Bank is not substantial due to the location of the 
City of Akron and sixty banking offices of other banking institutions 
the area intervening between Bank and Portage Bank and the absence 
of a 
y overlap in the service, areas of the two banks. Consummation 
* tlle proposed acquisition would not, therefore, eliminate substantial 
listing competition. Furthermore, the development of potential competition 
apPears unlikely, in view of application of the State's restrictive branch-
l a w and in view of the sizable number of intervening banking offices 
b a t i n g them. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
applicant and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval of 
the a 
application. Applicant intends to provide Bank's customers with a 
^^ified trust officer and to assist Bank in the provision of international 
services, as well as to assist Bank in locating future branch 
Htes 
• Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
CCttw 
U n ity to be served lend weight toward approval. It is the Board's 
& Q e n t that the transaction is in the public interest and should be 
*P^oved 

- 3 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsumraated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
t h e Board, or by the Fede ra 1 Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant 
to ^legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors," February 13, IS72. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
jj' Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itcheli, Daane, Briinner, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
481 

482 
Item No. 5 
2/18/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
sllQres of The St. Vrain Valley Bank, Longmont, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
ac°ordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
Q w j 
• 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
j 
a U comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 10 banks with aggregate deposits of 
Saq 
million, which amounts to 14.9 per cent of the total com-
^ c i a l bank deposits in Colorado. 
Bank (deposits $6.8 million) is the smallest of three 
i n 
Longmont and the eighth largest of nine banking organiza-
n® in Boulder County, holding 2,9 per cent of deposits in com-
^ c i a l banks in that County. Applicant's nearest subsidiary is 
*0cated 15 miles from Bank in the City of Boulder, and holds 11.8 
Pet 
* cent of the deposits in Boulder County. Consummation of the 
to 
P°sed transaction would increase Applicant's share of deposits 
^ • 7 per cent. However, the largest and second largest banking 

483 
-2-
°r8anizations in the County control 40,9 per cent and 15.6 per cent 
deposits, respectively, and affiliation with Applicant should 
enable Bank to compete more effectively with these two larger bank-
ing organizations and with the larger banks in Longmont. It appears 
ttlat consummation of the proposal would not eliminate any meaningful 
listing competition, and in view of the distance involved and Colo-
n ' s laws prohibiting branching, it does not appear that any such 
^Petition is likely to develop. 
Applicant intends to enlarge Bank's lending capacity 
through participations, to assist Bank in making agricultural loans, 
tr» 
Provide trust services through Applicant's lead bank, and to aid 
in advertising and market research. Considerations related to 
convenience and needs of the community to be served lend some 
Vel-ght in favor of approval. Considerations related to the finan-
and managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant 
^ 
Its present subsidiaries and of Bank are generally satisfactory 
Snd consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
pr°Posed transaction is in the public interest and that the appli-
CatIon should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
C°n8ummated (fi) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
Clate of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 

-3-
thla Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
legated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
r t c h e l l , Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
°vernor Haisel. 
484 

Item No 
2/18/72 
- 
. 
. 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225.1 
[Reg. Y] 
Nonbanking Activities of Bank Holding Companies 
The Board of Governors is considering further implementation 
of it- regulatory authority under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
c°oip,-3nv , 
r 
Act. t0 
permit bank holding companies to lease real property 
Grtain conditions. 
In this connection, the Board noted that it 
^s r e °-ived an application from First Chicago Corporation, Chicago, 
IUi n o i . 
H > t o engage, through its subsidiary, First Chicago Leasing 
C°rPor 
• -ion, in the leasing of real property in a manner somewhat 
r-° that which would be authorized by the following proposed 
-ltion for bank holding companies generally, subject to the pro-
o f section 225.4(b) of Regulation Y„ 
h f 
Accordingly, the Board proposes to amend section 225.4(a) of 
H u i a t t . 
v 
' "°n Y to permit bank holding companies, subject to the procedures 
•xon 225.4(b), to engage in the leasing of real property under cer 
c°naitxons<, The text of the proposed amendment reads as follows: 
*" - gonbankin^ Activities 
(a) Ac tivities closely related to banking or managing or 
coii t 
'^^SiL.banks„ 
* * * * The following activities have been deter-
b-S the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or 
v r o l 
ing banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 

(12) leasing real property where; 
(i) the property to he leased is acquired specifically 
for the leasing transaction under consideration; 
(ii) the lease is on a net lease basis and the effect 
of the transaction will be to compensate the lessor for 
not. less than the lessor's full investment in the property; 
(iii) the lessee hns an option to purchase the property 
at the expiration of the lease; 
(iv) in the event the lessee fails to exercise the 
aforesaid option, the real property assets shall be liqui-
dated as soon as practicable and, in no event, later than 
One year from the expiration of the lease; 
(v) the aggregate investment in such real property by 
the bank holding company and its subsidiaries 
shall at no 
time exceed five per cent of the equity capital of the bank 
holding company. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, inter-
w,:cid Persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or arguments. 
A n y such material should be submitted in writing to the Secretary, Board 
of r 
P e r n o r s of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, to 
bs r 
Solved not later than March 17, 1972. Such material will be made 
liable for inspection and copying upon request, except as provided 
0 C G c U o n 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Availability of 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 18, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
. 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^ A t ) 
