MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 1, 1969/ , 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 1, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mitchell 
Maisel 
Brimmerl/ 
Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics^./ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance^/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Semia of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
copies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All of the members of the research divisions who had been 
present except Messrs. Partee and Smith of the Division of Research 
and Statistics and Messrs. Solomon, Hersey, and Gemmill of the 
Division of International Finance then withdrew from the meeting. 
Messrs. Broida and Morgan also withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
PRESENT: Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
2/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

9 
V 
8/1/69 
-2-
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Messrs. Noble and Plotkin of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Kline, and McAninch of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Report on competitive factors. In response to questions 
raised at the Board meeting on July 28, 1969, principally by Governor 
Maisel, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal 
Division had submitted under date of July 30 a supplemental memorandum 
with regard to the report requested by the Comptroller of the Currency 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
The West Unity Banking Company, West Unity, Ohio, into The Citizens 
National Bank of Bryan, Bryan, Ohio. 
On the basis of the facts as they were known, it appeared 
doubtful to the staff that the relationships existing among the 
West Unity bank, the Bryan bank, and The Pioneer Banking Company, 
Pioneer, Ohio, constituted a violation of the antitrust laws, and 
the staff therefore recommended that in the report to the Comptroller 
no reference be made to either the Clayton Act or the Sherman Act. 
It continued to be the view of the staff that the competitive effect 
of the proposed merger should be cited as adverse rather than 

J 3 4 2 8 
8/1/69 
-3-
substantially adverse; however, a minor change was suggested on one 
page of the text of the report. 
After discussion, during which Governor Maisel indicated that 
he was satisfied with the staff memorandum, the report (with the staff 
suggestion incorporated) was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the merger of The Citizens 
National Bank of Bryan, Bryan, Ohio, and The West 
Unity Banking Company, West Unity, Ohio, would 
eliminate some direct competition between the two 
institutions, and would create an institution 
holding almost 32 per cent of the deposits in the 
relevant area. The overall effect on competition 
would be adverse. 
Marshall & Ilsley. After a discussion relating mainly to 
the extent to which banking locations in the State of Wisconsin were 
falling under the control of the principal bank holding companies, 
the Board approved unanimously the application of Marshall & Ilsley 
Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of 
Peoples State Bank, New Holstein, Wisconsin, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
During the discussion of the application Governor Robertson 
noted that the exchange offer contemplated by the proposed trans-
action would be made only to shareholders who were bona fide 
residents of the State of Wisconsin in order to exempt the offer from 
the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 

2429 
8/1/69 
-4-
At his request, the General Counsel indicated that he would have a 
check made to confirm his understanding that this was a legitimate 
means of avoiding compliance with the requirements of the Federal 
legislation. 
Lincoln First Banks. Following a discussion centering 
mostly on the competitive situation in the relevant local market, 
the Board approved unanimously the application of Lincoln First 
Banks, Inc., Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of the successor 
by merger to National Bank of Westchester, White Plains, New York, 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Loans collateralized by insurance policies. After consider-
ation of a revised draft submitted under date of July 30, 1969, the 
Board approved unanimously the transmittal to Chairman Patman of the 
House Banking and Currency Committee of a letter in response to 
questions he had raised in light of his understanding that a large 
number of banks stood to lose a substantial amount of money on loans 
collateralized by questionable insurance policies. A copy of the 
reply to Chairman Patman is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on foreign branch assets and liabilities. With 
respect to the proposed monthly report on foreign branch assets and 
liabilities, the Division of International Finance noted in a 
memorandum dated July 30, 1969, that First National City Bank, 
New York, New York, had submitted to the Bureau of the Budget 

2430 
8/1/69 
-5-
a request that its foreign branches be permitted to file the report 
(Form F.R. 502) as of the end of the bank's fiscal month (the 20th) 
rather than as of the end of the calendar month. For reasons set 
forth in the memorandum, the Division recommended that the request 
be denied. 
After discussion, Board members expressed agreement with 
the Division's position. Accordingly, a letter to the Budget Bureau 
reflecting that position was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Regulation Z. The staff had submitted to the Board for 
consideration three proposed interpretations of provisions of 
Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. 
After discussion, the issuance of the proposed interpreta-
tions was approved unanimously. The interpretations are attached 
under Item No. 3. 
Ruder & Finn. The Board had previously approved retention 
of the firm of Ruder & Finn of Washington, D. C., Inc., Washington, 
D. C., as consultants in connection with Regulation Z, Truth in 
Lending, for a period of six months, through July 31, 1969, at a 
monthly rate of $5,000. 
In a memorandum of July 29, 1969, the Director of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the Board 
authorize retention of the firm for an additional period of not 

o A 
& 
h 
8/1/69 
-6-
more than four months at the same rate per month, principally to 
provide assistance on the preparation of a consumer film strip. 
After a discussion during which Governor Robertson indicated 
that the film strip would be made available for viewing by members 
of the Board before it was released, retention of the Ruder & Finn 
firm for an additional period of not more than four months at the 
monthly rate stipulated was approved unanimously. 
CNA Financial Corporation. On June 18, 1969, the Board 
had discussed preliminarily the request of CNA Financial Corporation, 
Chicago, Illinois, for a determination as to whether it was "primarily 
engaged" in securities activities specified in section 32 of the 
Banking Act of 1933 so as to make directors of the corporation 
ineligible to serve also as officers, directors, or employees of 
member banks. To the file on the matter had now been added (1) a 
memorandum from Mr. Shay of June 19 endeavoring to clarify certain 
questions that had come up during the discussion on June 18 and 
(2) a memorandum from Governor Maisel, likewise dated June 19, 
suggesting that the Board make a definitive determination with respect 
to the applicability of section 32 to all insurance companies offering 
more than a minor amount of equity accounts and/or mutual funds, with 
the further suggestion that the determination be brought to the 
attention of the appropriate Congressional committees for their 
consideration. 

8/1/69 
-7-
Governor Robertson now referred to certain current litigation 
the outcome of which seemed likely, in his opinion, to have a bearing 
on the question before the Board. In the circumstances, he suggested 
that the CNA matter be held over for further consideration after the 
pending litigation had been decided. 
Although the staff expressed some doubt as to whether the 
final decision on the litigation mentioned by Governor Robertson 
would be particularly helpful in offering a solution to the basic 
issues involved in the CNA question, it was agreed to defer consider-
ation of the CNA request for a determination. The staff noted that 
it was in receipt from time to time of inquiries involving essentially 
the same problem, and it was the consensus that such inquiries should 
be handled by indicating that the Board was not prepared to pass on 
such questions at the moment. It was understood that similar advice 
would be given to CNA Financial Corporation through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Governor Brimmer withdrew from the meeting during the fore-
going discussion. 
First National Charter Corporation. The Board authorized 
issuance on Monday, August 4, of an order and statement reflecting 
approval on July 17, 1969, of the application of First National 
Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of shares of The First National Bank of 
Kansas City and Leawood National Bank of Kansas City, both located in 

^ ' i o o 
8/1/69 
-8-
Kansas City, Missouri. Copies of the order and statement are attached 
under Item No. 4. 
Silver dollars,, Mr. Farrell recalled that the Secretary of 
the Treasury had issued an order that no more silver dollars be paid 
out by Federal Reserve Banks and that more recently, at the suggestion 
of the Board's staff, the Treasury had requested that all remaining 
supplies of silver dollars be returned by the Reserve Banks. 
Yesterday, Mr. Farrell said, a Treasury official had been 
advised by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta that the Bank was 
hold ing several thousand silver dollars in "other assets" that it 
would like to keep for trading purposes0 
The Treasury had expressed 
some concern about the consequences if word got out that silver 
dollars might be available from the Atlanta Bank when they were not 
available from the Treasury. 
It appeared, Mr. Farrell continued, that the Atlanta Bank 
sometimes bid on coin collections that were in estates and traded 
coins to complete missing parts of its currency and coin collection. 
A spot check indicated that other Reserve Banks did not follow such 
practices. 
Mr. Farrell proposed, if the Board agreed, to advise 
President Kimbrel that the silver dollars held by the Atlanta Bank 
should be returned to the Treasury and that the Bank should discon-
tinue the practice of bidding on estates and trading currency and 
coin. 

2434 
8/1/69 
Mr. Farrell was authorized to advise President Kimbrel to 
such effect. Also, it was understood that he would consider the 
advisability of sending a letter from the Board to all Federal Reserve 
Banks for their guidance. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on July 28 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco on 
July 31, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
With respect to the action taken by the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago on July 24, 1969, to establish, 
subj ect to the approval of the Board of Governors, a rate of 7 per 
cent (rather than the existing rate of 6 per cent) on discounts 
for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the 
Federal Reserve Act, it was agreed to defer consideration of the 
matter until next week. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary 
Z22_ 

9 1 
Of GOV, 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
•J F T H E 
Item No. 1 
8/1/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
August 1, 1969 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reference to your letter of April 25, 1969, 
regarding bank loans collateralized by insurance policies. Copies 
of your letter were sent to the Reserve Banks, and their attention 
was called to the fact that a large number of paid up life insurance 
policies issued by the Financial Security Life Insurance Company of 
Phoenix, Arizona, recently suspended by State authorities, as well 
as the two companies mentioned in your letter, have been pledged for 
hank loans. The Reserve Banks were asked to review their examination 
procedures in the light of these developments. 
On the basis of information now available to us, it appears 
that four State member banks have made loans collateralized by 
questionable insurance policies. The loans involved total roughly^ 
$450 ,000, but the ultimate loss to the banks cannot as yet be 
determined. We have no evidence of any participation by the banks 
in any fraud in connection with the loans. 
You have asked "why this scheme was not uncovered during 
the course of normal bank examinations." We believe that our 
examination procedures offer protection against such fraud within 
practicable limits. But it should be recognized that there is no 
way to be certain that our examinations will reveal every instance 
in which a life insurance policy (or any of a number of other kinds 
of securities) pledged as collateral for a loan is worth less than 
it appears to be, since our examiners cannot make the investigations 
of the companies involved that would be necessary to eliminate all 
uncertainty on that score. 

t 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
2436 
We appreciate your letter and we are watching the 
situation. The System's examiners continue to scrutinize loans 
collateralized by insurance policies very carefully and arrange-
ments have been made to exchange information about these loans 
with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller 
of the Currency. 
Sincerely, 

f^LRE^V 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 13 
8/1/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
August 1, 1969. 
Mr. Edward T. Crowder, 
Assistant Director for Clearance Operations, 
Office of Statistical Policy, 
U.S. Bureau of the Budget, 
New Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Crowder: 
The Board of Governors has reviewed the request of the 
First National City Bank of New York in its letter to you dated 
July 15, 1969 that their foreign branches be authorized to file 
Federal Reserve Monthly Reports on Foreign Branch Assets and 
Liabilities (Form F.R. 502) as of that bank's fiscal closing date 
each month. The Board has concluded that month-end reports are 
required from all banks in order to obtain statistically comparable 
and meaningful data on the activities of foreign branches of U.S. 
banks. 
The Board is conscious of the need to minimize reporting 
burdens on banks. The modifications made in the proposed form since 
it was originally proposed, and in particular the reporting exemp-
tions now provided for the form, represent an effort to reduce the 
reporting burden as much as possible. It is understood that foreign 
branches of U.S. banks in many countries file month-end reports with 
authorities in those countries, and all but three U.S. banks have 
been filing month-end reports on Treasury Form 3954 on behalf of all 
their foreign branches as well. 
Any exceptions from filing month-end reports such as have 
been authorized by the Treasury for its IET Form 3954 would seriously 
limit the usefulness of the Federal Reserve form because of the great 
variability day-to-day of important items in balance sheets of some 
foreign branches, which are frequently accompanied by opposite changes 
in accounts of foreign branches of other foreign banks. Moreover, 
month-end reporting will permit comparison of foreign branch data 
with other data currently collected on international financial trans-
actions . 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 

2433 
Item No. 3 
8/1/69 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
§ 226.404 Premiums for vendor's single Interest Insurance required bv creditor 
(a) Under § 226.4(a)(6), charges or premiums for insurance, 
written in connection with a credit transaction, against loss of or damage 
to property may be excluded from the finance charge if the creditor makes 
the disclosures required under that subparagraph. Under § 226.4(a)(7), a 
Premium or other charge for any other guarantee or insurance protecting the 
creditor against the customer's default or other credit loss is included in 
the finance charge. The question arises as to whether Vendor's Single 
Interest (V.S.I.) coverage, when required by the creditor to be written in 
connection with a transaction, is insurance of the type described in 
§ 226.4(a)(6) or in § 226.4(a)(7). 
(b) V.S.I, coverage is written only in connection with a credit 
transaction and indemnifies the creditor against, among other perils, con-
version, embezzlement, and secretion of the collateral by the customer; 
and amounts payable on account of loss are payable only to the creditor; and 
the amount of any indemnity payable under the policy is directly related 
t o the amount of the credit loss, in that such indemnity can never exceed 
the amount of the unpaid principal balance of the debt. The insurer has no 
liability under a V.S.I, policy unless, at the time the policy was written, 
n o payment was more than a specified number of days past due, and a claim 

under the policy is not valid unless the customer has defaulted in payment. 
Additionally, many V.S.I, policies indemnify the creditor against expense 
incurred in transporting the collateral to the creditor from the place of 
repossession. 
(c) V.S.I, coverage is, therefore, insurance which protects the 
creditor against the customer's default or other credit loss, and when 
required by the creditor to be written in connection with any transaction, 
the premium therefore is included in the finance charge under § 226.4(a)(7). 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 

§ 226.405 
Property insurance written In connection vlth a transaction--
pbtained from or fhrnn^h the creditor 
(a) Footnote 4 to § 226.4(a)(6) specifies that a policy of 
insurance against loss or damage to property or liability arising out of its 
U S G i s n o t considered to be "written in connection with" a transaction when 
it " 
• . was not purchased by the customer for the purpose of being used in 
connection with that extension of credit." Therefore, whenever such a 
Policy is purchased by the customer for the purpose of being used in 
connection with a specific extension of credit, it is insurance "written 
connection with" that transaction. 
(b) If such property insurance which is written in connection 
Wi f-H 
a transaction is required by the creditor and is obtainable from or 
through him, the cost thereof for the term of the initial policy or policies 
U st be disclosed to the customer, irrespective of whether the customer 
Purchases or expects to purchase such insurance from the creditor, in order 
£ 
° r the premium to be excluded from the finance chance. 
' -
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605) 

2441 
-4-
§ 226.811 Renewals of notes by mail 
(a) Under paragraph (j) of § 226.8, renewals of notes with new 
maturity dates constitute refinancings and are consequently new transactions. 
A common practice is for creditors to permit renewal of such notes by mail. 
In many of such instances the creditor does not know whether the customer 
will reduce his original obligation by a payment on principal or, if reduced, 
the amount of that reduction. The question arises as to what disclosures 
should be made by mail to the customer in these circumstances. 
(b) If the creditor knows the amount of the principal payment, all 
disclosures should be made on the basis of the resulting new amount financed. 
however, the creditor does not know whether the customer will reduce his 
0riginal obligation, or if so, by how much, he should disclose on the assumption 
that there will be no reduction. In such circumstances he may make one or more 
additional disclosures based on one or more examples of graduated principal 
eduction. For example, if a single payment note was for $1,000 at 8% for 
3 months, in addition to the other reruired disclosures, the creditor should 
disclose an amount financed of $1,000 with a finance charge of $20, and may, 
i n addition, disclose that with a principal payment of $300 the amount financed 
would be $700 with a finance charge of $14, and with a principal payment of 
$500 the amount financed would be $500 with a finance charge of $10. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1639) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 
1st day of August, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2442 
Item No. 
8 
8/1/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION, 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for the approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of voting shares of The First 
National Bank of Kansas City, and Leawood 
National Bank of Kansas City, both of 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION TO BECOME A 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
<12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First National 
Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri, for the Board's prior 
approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of at least 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of The First National Bank of Kansas City, and at least 51 per cent 
o f the voting shares of Leawood National Bank of Kansas City, both of 
Kansas City, Missouri. 

2443 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. He recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 20, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7935), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
b e extended by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 4th day of August 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
(SEAL) 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2444 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST NATIONAL CHARTER CORPORATION, KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First National Charter Corporation, Kansas City, Missouri 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
o f the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
a t least 80 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank 
0 f K a n sas City ("First National"), and at least 51 per cent of the voting 
shares of Leawood National Bank of Kansas City ("Leawood Bank"), both 
of which are located in Kansas City, Missouri. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority.- As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
W a S 
to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Comptroller 
the Currency. He recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

2445 
-4-
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to h 
e served, in each case the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
a n d n e e d s of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transact i o n F i r s t National 
($389 million deposits)!/ i s t h e fourth largest bank in the State of 
Missouri. Applicant would control 3.7 per cent of the deposits held by 
a ll Missouri banks, and would be the fourth largest banking organization 
a n d t h e secQnc* largest of seven bank holding companies in the State. 
First National operates its only office, as well as a limited-
service facility, in downtown Kansas City, the business and geographic 
center nf 
or a six-county region which includes portions of the neighboring 
S t a t G ° f K a n sas, and which comprises metropolitan Kansas City. It is the 
econd largest bank in the city, and provides banking services to the 
etltire metropolitan area, holding 11.8 per cent of the deposits held by 
1 2 3 
banks located in the area. 
it All banking data are as of December 31, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

3-
2446 
Leawood Bank ($14.6 million deposits) has one office and 
a limited-service facility, both of which are located in a large 
shopping center approximately nine miles southeast of downtown Kansas 
C1-ty, and just east of the Missouri-Kansas boundary. The bank was 
organized by principal officers and directors of First National in 1959, 
and a majority of the stock of both banks is owned by the same shareholders. 
Leawood Bank is primarily a suburban retail bank, serving the shopping 
center in which it is located and nearby residential areas. Its 
deposits constitute only about .5 per cent of those originating in 
metropolitan Kansas City, and less than 10 per cent of those originating 
In the suburban area which it serves. It is the sixth largest of 10 
banks competing within that area. 
Despite the fact that the area served by Leawood Bank lies 
wholly within the area served by First National, it does not appear, 
in view of the present affiliation of the two banks and the suburban-
retail orientation of Leawood Bank's business, as compared with the 
urban-whole Hale orientation of the business of First National, that 
any significant existing competition would be eliminated by consummation 
°f Applicant's proposal. For the same reasons, and additionally because 
o f the prohibition against branching under Missouri law, the potential 
tQr future competition between the two proposed subsidiaries does not 
appear significant. Finally, it does not appear that consummation of 
the proposal would have any undue adverse effects on competitors of 
either bank. 

The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or be 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area. Consummation of the 
proposal would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a 
monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a newly formed corporation organized by officers and directors 
°f First National to engage in the business of a bank holding company, 
has no financial or operating history. Its projected financial condition 
l s satisfactory, as is that of its proposed subsidiary banks. Management 
Appli c a n t ancj bQj-h banks is experienced and capable, and the prospects 
o f all three are favorable. 
Considerations relating to the banking factors are found to be 
consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The banking 
needs of the Kansas City metropolitan area are adequately served by the 
large number of banks conveniently located throughout the area. No 
change in the service offering of First National would result from, or be 
facilitated by, the proposed transaction. 
It is proposed that Leawood Bank will, with the assistance of 
Fi 
s t National, initiate trust services in the event that Applicant's 
Proposal is consummated. Such services are not presently available from 
3 n y 
banks located within the Missouri portion of the area served 
b y ^eawood Bank, and the proposal would, in that respect, provide somewhat 

2418 
-3-
Sreater convenience to those area residents who now must travel to 
downtown Kansas City for complete trust services. 
Considerations under this factor lend some weight in favor 
of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion.- On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in section 
3 ( C ) o f t h e Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
August 4, 1969. 
