Minutes for 
October 14, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
• 
>
. 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 14, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
i 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Haclcley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lipkowitz, Noble, Plotkin, and Via of 
the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Achor, Donovan, and 
Harris of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Mandel of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 

o o Q J 
10/14/68 
-2-
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at the meeting of the 
available members of the Board on Friday, October 11, 1968, as recorded 
in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Morgan Guaranty matter (Item No. 1). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated October 3, 1968, from the Legal Division 
relating to the proposal of Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 
New York, New York, to act as investment adviser and custodian to 
Halcyon Fund, Inc., a newly organized open-end mutual fund currently 
in process of registration with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
The Legal Division concluded that the proposed activities of 
Morgan Guaranty as investment adviser and custodian would not appear 
to violate section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933. It noted that 
traditionally the Board had followed the policy of not expressing 
views, in connection with particular cases, as to the meaning of 
section 21 of the Act (a criminal statute). Nevertheless, the Legal 
Division found two proposed practices questionable, one having to do 
with the supplying by Morgan Guaranty of names and addresses of 
persons, including customers, who had requested information regarding 
the fund, the other having to do with expression of opinion by Morgan 
Guaranty personnel as to the advisability of purchases of shares of 
the fund. Accordingly, the Legal Division suggested that Morgan 
Guaranty be advised that a modification of the proposal in these 
regards might be appropriate. A proposed letter to Morgan Guaranty 
was attached to the distributed memorandum. 

I 
O iT* g-> ^ 
10/14/68 
-3-
There was some discussion, in response to questions from 
members of the Board, regarding the extent to which reference should 
be made to section 21, and in what terms, in light of the procedural 
modifications that the Legal Division had proposed be brought to the 
member bank's attention. Governor Robertson then suggested a rearrange-
ment of the structure of the pertinent paragraph of the letter, and 
there was general agreement with his suggestion. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to Morgan 
Guaranty in the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Application of Marine Midland. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated October 2, 1968, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with the application of 
Marine Midland Trust Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New York, to 
merge Lafayette Bank and Trust Company of Suffern, Suffern, New York. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
Following comments by Mr. Egertson in supplementation of the 
material that had been distributed, the application was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that an appropriate order and statement 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Central Bancorporation. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated October 3, 1968, from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation and other pertinent papers relating to the 
application of The Central Bancorporation, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio, to 

10/14/68 
-4-
become a bank holding company by acquiring 80 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of The Central Trust Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, and The 
Citizens National Bank of Marietta, Marietta, Ohio. The recommenda-
tions were favorable. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon, the application was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement 
reflecting this decision would be drafted for the Board's considera-
tion. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of State Bank of Rahway, Rahway, New Jersey, into Commu-
nity Bank of Linden, Linden, New Jersey, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There would appear to be some competition existing 
between Community Bank of Linden and State Bank of 
Rahway and upon consummation of this transaction the 
resulting bank would hold approximately 30 per cent of 
the area deposits. Overall, the competitive effects of 
the proposal would be adverse. 
Discount mechanism (Item No. 2). In connection with the recent 
hearings before the Joint Economic Committee, at which Governor Mitchell 
testified, on the proposals currently under consideration for redesign 
of the Federal Reserve discount mechanism, Professor Milton Friedman 
had addressed a letter to Chairman Proxmire setting forth certain views. 
There had now been distributed a draft of letter that it was 
suggested be sent by Governor Mitchell to Senator Proxmire so that Pro-
fessor Friedman's allegations would not stand in the record unanswered. 

10/14/68 
-5-
In discussion, members of the Board expressed the view that 
the proposed letter could develop certain arguments more effectively, 
and suggestions were made as to how the letter might be strengthened. 
It being understood that the draft would be revised to take 
account of these suggestions, unanimous approval was given to the 
sending of the letter to Senator Proxmire. A copy of the letter, as 
transmitted, is attached as Item No. 2. 
Travel accident insurance (Item No. 3). A memorandum from the 
Division of Personnel Administration dated October 10, 1968, recom-
mended approval, pursuant to a request from the Conference of Presi-
dents, of a Reserve Bank program of travel accident insurance that 
would cover Bank personnel traveling outside Bank premises on official 
business. 
The Division also requested authority to explore the feasibil-
ity of extending the travel accident coverage to Board members and 
Board employees. 
Mr. Johnson responded to several questions by members of the 
Board relating to various aspects of the matter, following which the 
travel accident insurance program for the Federal Reserve Banks was 
approved unanimously. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the 
Chairman of the Presidents' Conference is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board also authorized the Division of Personnel Administra-
tion to pursue further the question of extension of the travel accident 
insurance coverage to members and employees of the Board. 

3 6 8 7 
10/14/68 
-6-
Truth in lending press release (Item No. 4). Governor 
Robertson described the further work that had been done, pursuant 
to Board discussion last week, on the proposed Regulation Z (Truth 
in Lending), including the insertion of a prefatory note (copy of 
which had been distributed), and the changes made in the press release 
relating thereto. 
Following discussion, it was agreed that the draft regulation 
would be released to the press today for publication in the morning 
papers of Wednesday, October 16. A copy of the press release, as 
issued, is attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
O O 
Item No. 1 
10/14/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 15, 1968 
Mr. John M. Meyer, Jr., President, 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
of New York, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Dear Mr. Meyer: 
Reference is made to your letters of May 10, 1968, and 
June 10, 1968, in which you advised that Morgan Guaranty Trust 
Company of New York intends to furnish investment advisory and 
dustodial services to Halcyon Fund, Inc. ("Fund"), a newly organized 
open-end investment company, currently in registration with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission. Further reference is made to 
a memorandum dated September 17, 1968, entitled "Halcyon Fund, Inc. -
Limitations on Activities of Morgan Guaranty Personnel", transmitted 
by your counsel, Davis, Polk & Wardwell, and to counsel's letter 
dated September 30, 1968, in which it advised that the organization 
of Fund and proposed relationship of Morgan Guaranty was conceived 
by counsel who sought a structure within which a bank could lawfully 
(in its opinion) perform services relating to the portfolio manage-
ment of a mutual fund. 
It appears that Fund's shares will be distributed by its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Halcyon Fund Distributing Company, Inc. 
("Distributing Company"), the expenses of which are to be reimbursed 
by Fund. No sales or redemption fees are to be charged; the minimum 
initial subscription is to be $10,000 and minimum additional sub-
scriptions are to be $2,500. You state that no directors, officers, 
or employees of Fund or of Distributing Company are or will be 
directors, officers, or employees or otherwise "affiliated" with 
Morgan Guaranty. You further state that Morgan Guaranty will not own 
directly or indirectly any of the shares of Fund, that it has no 
power as a matter of law to control the election of directors of Fund 

Hr. John M. Meyer, Jr. 
-2-
and will not, in fact, in any manner attempt to control such election 
and that there is no understanding of any kind between Morgan Guaranty 
and the present directors or officers of Fund regarding the election 
of directors. 
You also indicate that Morgan Guaranty will not perform any 
functions connected with the sale of shares of Fund, that no sales 
literature will be available for distribution by officers or employees 
of Morgan Guaranty and instructions will be given to such officers 
and employees that they should not engage in any way in soliciting or 
discussing sales of Fund's shares (in this connection, see below). It 
is further understood that offices of Fund and the Distributing Company 
are separate and apart from the bank, in a building in which the bank 
maintains no branch or other office. 
On the basis of the information submitted, it would not appear 
that the proposal of Morgan Guaranty to act as investment adviser and 
custodian to Fund, involves an affiliation of a type specified in section 
2(b) of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 221a) and, therefore, pro-
hibited by section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 377). Of 
course, should there be a change in circumstances from the information 
presently before the Board, a different conclusion might be required. 
You should note, however, that section 21 of the Banking Act 
of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 378), in brief, forbids a firm engaged in the business 
of issuing, underwriting, selling, or distributing securities, subject 
to certain exceptions, from engaging in the business of receiving 
deposits, and vice versa. Although the following comments should not 
be viewed as an interpretation of section 21, it is suggested you con-
sider appropriate modification of two proposed practices outlined in 
paragraphs four and seven of counsel's Memorandum dated September 17, 
1968, since they could conceivably be viewed as "selling or distributing" 
by Morgan Guaranty of Fund's securities. In view of the other relation-
ships of Morgan Guaranty to Fund, the Board believes that Morgan 
Guaranty should not supply the Distributing Company with the names and 
addresses of persons, including customers, who have requested infor-
mation regarding Fund and that Morgan Guaranty should express no opinion 
whatever with respect to advisability of purchases of shares of Fund. 
Since section 21 is a criminal statute, the Board has followed the policy 
of not expressing views as to its meaning (1965 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
1410). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 2 
10/14/68 
G E O R G E W. MITCHELL 
member of the board 
October 15, 1968 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
I would like to take this opportunity to respond to the 
issues raised in the September 13 letter sent to you by Professor 
Milton Friedman with regard to the proposals currently under 
consideration for redesign of the Federal Reserve discount 
mechanism. 
As you know, the System, presently as in the past, sees 
the role of the discount mechanism in a different light than does 
Professor Friedman. We agree that the advent of Federal deposit 
insurance substantially lessened the possibility of "runs" on 
the banking system and view this insurance as a vital part of a 
dependable and effectively operating financial system. However 
the prevention of runs is not and never was the sole or even the 
most important function of the discount window. In a highly frag-
mented banking system such as that existing in the United States, 
it is important that there be some method whereby individual mem-
ber banks can obtain Reserve Bank credit quickly and efficiently 
to meet their individual reserve needs. 
The net reserve needs of the banking system as a whole 
can be and are promptly and effectively met by open market opera-
tions. However, there are at least two factors that can combine 
to prevent these operations from adequately responding to the 
needs of individual banks. First, the size and timing of short-
term reserve pressures often varies widely from bank to bank. 
Thus, individual banks may be experiencing outflows of funds far 
in excess of reasonable expectations given current monetary conditions, 
whether of ease or restraint. Their problems in meeting those needs 
cannot be allowed to dilute the effectiveness of general policy, 
but neither should these institutions be excessively penalized 

o o 
Honorable William Proxmire 
-2-
b°ZTh°fn
 
S p e c i a l n e e d S f 0 r f u n d s> 
be quite apart 
ket^operations"3 
C ° n d l t i ° n S 
d e a l t 
by'open Z -
system relative to the opportunities for profitable employment 
exist' W n f T ? " ' 
d 6 8 r e e ° f m o b l U * 
does not 
with suffictent3 ^ 
h ^ 
m e c h a n i s m s ""en do not function 
With sufficient speed and elasticity to guarantee that a hanW 
can always effect its needed adjustments^hrough the^e means 
not Z l l 
f 8 e n u m b e r s ° £ m e m b e r b a n k s ' Poetically spelking' do 
cLartv llr e q U a, t e- a C Cr S t 0 S U C h m a r k e t S " 
T h e s e - ^ e t s hafe 
so 
But for n 
m 
k Pf S t' 3 n d d o u b t l e " " " I continue to do 
expeditiously 
h3"*?' t h 6 a b U l t y t 0 taP t h e s e m a ^ e t s 
expeditiously has not developed commensurately with local credit 
r " 8 ' T V ^ P r i v i l e 8 e <* borrowing from time to tim from 
the Federal Reserve can make such banks more efficient in sew-
ing their communities by giving them the needed flex l 
t 
" r 
an orderly working out of balance-sheet adjustments. 
.. 
I n addition, it is important to recognize that the 
discount mechanism also serves, in effect, as a "safety vaJve" 
for open market operations, without such a mechanism, open mar-
ket operations would have to be limited by the need to avoid 
impact on individual institutions. However, because individual 
banks do have the ability through borrowing^ from the cental bank 
to offset temporarily what at times may be a particularly harsh 
impact of open market operations, such operations can Reconducted 
n e e d s ' o f T " " " 
a « o r d a n c e 
the credit and monetary 
the e x i s t e n c e ^ r r 
" 
T h U S ' 1 C i S m y J u dS m e"' ^hat 
he task of over 
? 
T " ' W i n d ° W 
° n l y d° e S n o t complicate 
the task of over-all monetary management, but in fact eases it. 
effp,, 
Furthermore, I believe that this latter beneficial 
effect would be increased with the adoption of the proposal for 
be tolhi f a 
01,6 h V T ° V e r - a 1 1 e f f 6 C t S ° f t h e ^ 
- ^ d 
be to shift a somewhat larger part of the reserve adjustment 
initiative to the individual member bank. In all probability this 
can relieve open „*rket operations of a portion of the responsi-
bility for accommodating these short-run reserve needs, thus 
allowing such operations to be undertaken with increased atten-
tion to longer-run concerns. 

Honorable William Proxmire 
-3-
I recognize that one other effect of the proposed new 
discount mechanism would probably be some lowering of the levels 
of liquidity maintained by certain groups of banks as they are 
able to rely on the Federal Reserve for increased credit to meet 
temporary unforeseen or recurring needs. However, this effect is 
expected to be concentrated in smaller rural banks which, because 
of anticipated need and lack of access to the central money mar-
ket, presently maintain an unnecessarily high portion of their 
resources in highly liquid but low-yielding assets such as U.S. Gov 
ernment securities, or, in a surprising number of cases, in non-
earning excess reserves. This tendency on the part of some coun-
try banks can, of course, result in the credit needs of the 
communities they serve being less than fully met. 
On the other hand, the proposed redesign is not likely 
to have any significant impact on the liquidity of the larger 
city banks which already have convenient access to market sources 
of funds. In any case, the supervisory function of the Federal 
Reserve and that of the Comptroller of the Currency will continue 
to operate to ensure that individual member banks maintain 
adequate liquidity. 
Professor Friedman's characterization of the discount 
window as conveying a subsidy to member banks must be based on 
some misreading of the proposal. The rate charged on borrowing 
under the new discount arrangements would not, as Professor 
Friedman speculates, average two percentage points below market 
rates, but on the contrary would be kept in reasonably close 
alignment with market rates. This is a clearly stated aspect 
of the proposal, and it assures that there will be no signifi-
cant subsidy to banks or cost to the U.S. taxpayer. Moreover, 
access to the window is normally limited to member banks, and 
the value of this privilege ought to be weighed in light of the 
requirement that these banks maintain a portion of their deposits 
in a nonearning capacity as reserves. 
I am grateful for this opportunity to express my views 
on Professor Friedman's comments. As you know, the Board is 
actively seeking reactions from all sources on the proposals for 
redesign of the discount mechanism and is endeavoring to give 
full and open consideration to all comments received. I feel 
that this process should include stating opposing views when, 
as in the present case, it is felt that important misconceptions 
are involved in those comments. I would appreciate it if you 
would include this letter in the record of your hearings on the 
discount mechanism. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
• f
t
h
e 
10/14/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 15, 1968 
Mr. George H. Clay, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors approves the travel 
accident insurance program for the employees and Directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks as requested by the Conference 
of Presidents on September 9, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
f^LRE^V 
For release in morning papers, 
Wednesday, October 16, 1968 
Item No. 4 
10/14/68 
October 14, 19G8 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
published for public comment a proposed new regulation to implement the 
Truth in Lending Act -- Title I of the Consumer Credit Protection Act 
which was signed into law last May 29 by President Johnson. Congress 
directed the Board to write the regulation for the Truth in Lending 
provisions which go into effect next July 1. 
The principal purpose of the law, and the regulation imple-
menting it, io to provide a mechanism for improving customer knowledge 
of credit terms and thus to increase his ability to compare the terms 
available from various sources of credit. 
Provisions of the law and the proposed regulation will apply 
to banks, savings and loan associations, department stores, credit 
card issuers, automobile dealers, credit unions, finance companies, 
residential mortgage brokers, and others who extend or arrange for the 
extension of consumer credit. 
In general, the proposed regulation covers: 
-- Disclosures which must be made by creditors, 
including a statement of the dollar amount of the finance 
charge and the annual percentage rate. It also spells 
out the items to be included in the finance charge and 
the method for determining the annual percentage rate. 
-- The right of a customer to cancel some types of 
credit arrangements within three business days after a 
credit transaction is made if the customer's residence is 
used as collateral. This right may be waived by the 
customer in a bona fide personal financial emergency. 
-- Standards for the advertising of credit terms in any 
newspaper, magazine, leaflet, flyer, or catalog, on radio, 
television or a public address system, in direct mail 
literature, window display, billboard or any other manner. 
Written comments from interested persons will be received 
over the next 30 days through the 12 Federal Reserve Banks at Boston, 
New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas and San Francisco. 

O O ^ f O 
-2-
Work on the proposed regulation began even before the Truth 
in Lending measure was signed into law last May. A Federal Reserve 
task force drafted the language of the proposed regulation aided by 
outside consultants and an Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending 
composed of 20 men and women active in the consumer credit field and 
in consumer groups. The proposed regulation incorporates provisions 
of law and is designed as a complete handbook on Truth in Lending 
that consumers and creditors can use without need to shuffle back 
and forth between the Act and the regulation. 
Vice Chairman J. L. Robertson, to whom the Board has assigned 
special responsibility for this activity, said the proposed regula-
tion will be reviewed in the light of comments received and revised 
where appropriate. He added that the Advisory Committee on Truth in 
Lending will meet again on December 12 and 13 to advise on the final 
regulation to be formally published early in 1969. 
Governor Robertson said the Board, hopefully with the 
cooperation of consumer and lender groups, will soon launch an educa-
tional campaign to acquaint both creditors and consumers with provisions 
of the Truth in Lending regulation. 
Although Congress directed the Board to write the Truth in 
Lending regulation, actual enforcement of the regulation and the law 
will be carried out by nine federal agencies — The Comptroller of the 
Currency for national banks; the Federal Reserve Board for State banks 
which are members of the Federal Reserve System; the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, for State insured nonmember banks; the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board, for insured savings and loan associations; the 
Bureau of Federal Credit Unions, the Interstate Commerce Commission, 
the Civil Aeronautics Board, and Agriculture Department and the Federal 
Trade Commission. 
Compliance will be enforced by the Federal Trade Commission 
except where administrative enforcement is specifically committed by the 
statute to another federal agency. 
Consumer credit is defined in the proposed regulation as 
credit offered or extended to a natural person primarily for personal, 
family, household, or agricultural purposes and for which a finance 
charge is or may be imposed or which is repayable in more than four 
instalments. 

o o f l G 
-3-
The proposed regulation would also bar a merchant or other 
creditor from advertising only a portion of his credit terms -- such 
as so much money down and so much a week -- unless he also included 
the total price, number of payments, and other specific term3. 
Exemptions 
As required by law, the regulation exempts business and 
commercial credit (except agricultural credit) as well as credit to 
governments, governmental agencies and instrumentalities, and organiza-
tions such as corporations, estates, cooperatives and partnerships. 
Also exempt are consumer credit transactions other than real property 
transactions in which the amount financed exceeds $25,000. Real 
property transactions are covered by the regulation no matter how 
large the amount financed. 
Specific Disclosures 
The proposed regulation spells out the specific disclosures 
which must be made by creditors under each type of credit arrangement --
open end, which includes the many revolving charge accounts offered by 
department stores; and credit other than open end, which includes all 
other types of consumer loans and instalment type credit. 
Under the proposed regulation, a person opening a new open 
end credit account must first be advised in writing by the creditor of 
these provisions: 
-- The conditions under which a finance charge may 
be imposed and the time in which any outstanding credit 
may be repaid without incurring a finance charge. 
-- The method for determining the balance upon 
which a finance charge may be imposed, and the method 
for determining the amount of the finance charge. 
— Where one or more periodic rates may be used to 
compute the finance charge, each rate must be stated as 
well as the range of balances to which it applies and 
the corresponding annual percentage rate. 
-- The conditions under which any other charges may 
be imposed and the method by which they will be determined. 
-- The conditions under which the creditor may 
retain or acquire any security interest in any property 
under a credit arrangement. 

— The minimum periodic payment required. 
In the case of any open end credit accounts existing on 
July 1, 1969, the creditor must send a notice to the customer not later 
than July 31, 1969, listing the same provisions he is required to dis-
close to new credit customers. 
For all open end accounts having a debit balance of more than 
one dollar or on which a finance charge is imposed, the regulation 
would require the creditor to send the customer a periodic statement 
listing somewhat similar disclosures. 
The regulation also details the disclosures which a creditor 
would be required to make in the case of a credit sale, loan, or other 
extension of credit other than open end. In this case, the regulation 
spells out when such terminology as CASH PRICE, TOTAL DOWNPAYMENT, 
UNPAID BALANCE OF CASH PRICE, OTHER-CHARGES, AMOUNT FINANCED and TOTAL 
FINANCE CHARGE must be used. 
A creditor would not be required to send a periodic billing 
statement to customers in connection with an extension of credit other 
than open end. But if he decided to do so, the regulation specifies 
the disclosures which must be included in such a statement. 
Right to Rescind 
The Truth in Lending Act gives a customer the right to cancel 
a credit transaction within three business days in cases where the 
creditor retains a security interest in any real property used by the 
customer as his residence or is expected to be used by him for this 
purpose. A first mortgage used to purchase a residence, however, 
carries no such cancellation right. The cancellation right, for 
example, does apply when a residence is used as collateral for a 
consumer loan or is subjected to a mechanic's lien as a result of a 
credit transaction. 
Under the proposed regulation, a creditor would be required 
to give a customer a printed notification of his right to rescind. The 
notice would include this language: "YOU HAVE A LEGAL RIGHT TO CANCEL 
THIS TRANSACTION FOR ANY REASON WITHOUT ANY PENALTY OR OBLIGATION AND 
VOID ANY LIEN, MORTGAGE OR OTHER SECURITY INTEREST TO WHICH YOUR HOME 
IS SUBJECTED BY REASON OF THIS TRANSACTION. . . IF YOU DECIDE TO 
CAKCEL. YOU MAY USE THIS NOTICE FOR THAT PURPOSE BY DATING AND 
SIGNING BELOWf" 

The customer would have three business days following the 
date of the transaction to exercise his right of cancellation. The 
regulation would define a business day as any calendar day except 
Sunday and New Year's Day, Washington's Birthday, Memorial Day, 
Independence Day, Labor Day, Veterans Day, Thanksgiving and Christmas. 
Advertising 
In general, no advertisement may state that a specific instal 
ment, downpayment, or amount of credit can be arranged unless the 
creditor customarily arranges terms of this type. Equal emphasis must 
be given to all credit terms. 
No advertisement for credit may set forth a specific credit 
term unless all other terras are also stated clearly and conspicuously. 
Attachments 
Attached is a copy of the proposed regulation -- entitled 
Regulation Z -- and the first page of a table worked out by the Board 
and the Treasury Department to help creditors determine the annual 
percentage rates to be disclosed in connection with instalment and 
other types of credit other than open end. It is included only as an 
example of the type table which may be used. Creditors may, of 
course, use other tables adapted to their particular needs. 
The technical aspects of the section beginning on page 43 
(Calculation of Annual Percentage Rate) are essential to the regula-
tion but are not needed by many lenders and consequently the Board is 
considering transforming this section, in its final regulation, into 
a supplement. 
Also under consideration is the possibility of breaking the 
final regulation into parts which can be used by consumers and lenders 
interested in only one type of credit. The section on open end 
credit, for example, might be made available separately to persons 
interested only in this type transaction. 
