FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
TnnP ^ 1Q71 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
•Mi 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

138 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 3, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The following letters regarding investments 
by Edge corporations were approved unanimously. Copies of the letters 
are attached as indicated. 

2 
6/3/71 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to United States Trust Company International 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to purchase shares of US Trust-Spey Ltd., London, 
England. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Investment 
2 
Corporation, New York, New York, modifying reporting 
requirements with respect to temporary acquisitions 
of stock by its affiliate, First National City 
Flaminia Holding di Servizi Finanziari S.p.A., 
Milan, Italy. 
The consent calendar included a proposed report to the 
Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive effect of the proposed 
merger of Newport National Bank, Newport Beach, California, with 
Southern California First National Bank, San Diego, California. However, 
questions having been raised, it was agreed that the report would be 
docketed for discussion at another meeting. 
Unanimous approval was given to a report, for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of Bank of Rocky Mount, Rocky Mount, North 
Carolina, and First Union National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, 
North Carolina. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between Bank 
of Rocky Mount and First Union National Bank of North Carolina, 
Charlotte, and there is potential for increased competition between 
them through de novo branching. Consummation of the proposal would 
increase slightly the concentration of banking resources in a few 
large banks in the State. Overall, the effect of the proposal on 
competition would be adverse. 

1394 
6/3/71 
-3-
The application of First American National Corporation, Nashville, 
Tennessee, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
shares of the sucessor by merger to First American National Bank of 
Nashville, Nashville, Tennessee, was approved unanimously and issuance 
of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to Arkansas Bank & 
Trust Company, Hot Springs, Arkansas, approving a proposed issuance 
of capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Legal Division in a 
memorandum dated June 2, 1971, the Board authorized the issuance of 
an order remanding to the hearing examiner for recommended decision 
the applications of The Citizens and Southern National Bank and The 
Citizens and Southern Holding Company, Savannah, Georgia, for a deter-
mination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as 
amended, relating to the planned activities of a nonbanking subsidiary, 
The Citizens and Southern Credit Service Corporation. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 5. 
Hearing examiners. By memorandum dated May 26, 1971, the 
Office of the Secretary had transmitted the recommendation of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation, in which the Controller, the 
Secretary of the Board, and the Board's General Counsel concurred, 

1395 
6/3/71 
-3-
that an Office of Hearing Examiners be established, with the head of 
that Office reporting directly to the Board or to the Chairman's 
designee in charge of internal administrative affairs. Related recom-
mendations involved staff and budget arrangements. 
The Division of Personnel Administration, which did not concur 
in the recommendation that the Office be established at this time, cited 
a number of administrative problems that would be involved in an 
attached memorandum. 
Discussion included comments on whether a hearing examiner 
could also conduct less formal proceedings, the scope of hearings that 
could be conducted by a staff member designated by the Board, the 
probable volume of formal hearings in prospect, the likelihood that 
this might require more than the one hearing examiner contemplated 
initially for the proposed Office, and the rules under which hearing 
examiners were made available through the Civil Service Commission. 
While willingness to approve the staff recommendation was 
expressed by several Board members, others expressed reservations 
with respect to establishing a separate office of the Board, at least 
at this time, and noted the uncertainties involved in the selection of 
any particular individual. Suggestions were made for other organiza-
tional arrangements, including assignment of a hearing examiner to the 
staff of the Board Members1 Offices. Also suggested was an alternative 
in which a hearing examiner or examiners on the roster maintained by 

13 96 
6/3/71 
-5-
the Civil Service Commission would be sought for use repeatedly on 
hearings ordered by the Board, in order that performance might be 
observed, without prejudice to action at a later date. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that for 
the time being the Board would continue the present arrangement under 
which hearing examiners were borrowed through the Civil Service 
Commission, but that a search would go forward for a qualified person 
or persons who might be recommended for employment by the Board in 
the light of developments. 
Committee on Employee Benefits. Governors Maisel and Brimmer, 
in a memorandum dated June 1, 1971, recommended that the Board indicate 
to the Conference of Presidents that it favored establishment of a 
System Committee on Employee Benefits to perform on a continuing basis 
the functions that had been performed by the Ad Hoc Joint Committee on 
the Retirement System, as well as to maintain management oversight of 
the entire employee benefit program, including its costs and funding. 
They recommended that the Board appoint the members of its Committee 
on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans to represent the 
Board on the proposed System Committee; it was anticipated that the 
Conference of Presidents would name the members of its Committee on 
Management and Personnel. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be communicated to the Conference 
of Presidents. 

1397 
6/3/71 
-3-
Travel Regulations. Upon recommendation by Governor Sherrill, 
unanimous approval was given to the following amendment to the Board's 
Travel Regulations, effective June 3, 1971, as recommended in a 
memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated May 27, 1971: 
When members of the Field Examining Staff receiving 
per diem while in a continuous travel status are 
required to be on special assignment away from their 
examination site for periods of one week or less, and 
they incur additional hotel and incidental expenses, 
they may be reimbursed for these expenses upon approval 
of the Chief Federal Reserve Examiner or the Director 
of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 
It was understood that in the future proposed changes in the 
Board's Travel Regulations would be subject to approval under delegated 
authority by the Board member in charge of internal administrative 
affairs. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon. 
New York director appointment. Governor Robertson referred to 
the possible appointment of Mr. Douglas Dillon as a Class C director 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to fill the vacancy created by 
the death of Mr. Whitney Young. He read a letter in which Mr. Dillon 
placed the Board on notice of arrangements in process under which he 
would become in effect an executive officer and principal stockholder 
of Dillon Read & Co., an investment banking firm. 
Although the circumstances described by Mr. Dillon did not 
appear to create a legal impediment to his appointment as Class C director, 

1398 
6/3/71 
-7-
there was a general view that they raised questions from a policy 
standpoint. Accordingly, although no final decision was reached, 
it was understood that Governor Robertson would attempt to bring 
forward, in consultation with President Hayes, the names of other 
well-qualified men who might be considered for the post. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1399 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/3/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRHEHPOMDENCt 
TO THE HOAR D 
June 3, 1971 
United States Trust Company 
Int erna t iona1 Corporation 
45 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 16, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("USTCIC") to 
purchase and hold 50 per cent of the outstanding shares of 
US Trust-Spey Ltd. ("UST Spey")5 London, England, at a cost of 
approximately $120,000, provided such shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of UST Spey by USTCIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That USTCIC .shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in UST Spey if UST Spey at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if UST Spey establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in England or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to USTCIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
USTCIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of UST Spey as it may 
require from time to time; and 

1400 
United Slates Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by UST Spey 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if UST Spey were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by UST Spey in England 
in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines now in effect as they apply to United States Trust Company 
of New York and its subsidiary and that due consideration will be 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1401 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
f.rn 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS nrriCIAL Cn«»ESPUNDENCE 
1 • THE BDANU 
6/3/71 
June 3, 1971 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 14, 
1971, regarding the reporting of acquisitions and disposi-
tions of shares under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K by 
your affiliattr, First National City Flaminia Holding di 
Servizi Finanziari S.p.A. ("FNCF"), Milan, Italy. 
The Board of Governors grants permission for 
your Corporation, on behalf of FNCF, to report in connec-
tion with temporary acquisitions of shares within the 
limitations of Section 211.8(a) of Regulation K, and dis-
positions of such shares, only the name of the company, 
number of shares acquired and percentage of ownership, 
par value per share, cost of investment, and dates of pur 
chase and sale. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

Item No 
6/3/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST AMERICAN NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
Nashville, Tennessee, 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First American National 
Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee ("Applicant"), for the Board's 
prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor 
by merger to First American National Bank of Nashville, Nashville, 
Tennessee ("Bank"), and a nonoperating bank* 
The nonoperating bank 
has significance only as a means of acquiring all of the shares of 
the bank to be merged into it; the proposal is therefore treated 
herein as one to acquire shares of Bank. 

1403 
- 2 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
of the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on April 20, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7487), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light 
of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including 
the effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
and the bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
purpose of acquiring Bank ($565,9 million deposits), (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company approvals 
and acquisitions to date.) Upon consummation of the proposal, 
Applicant will assume Bank's present position as the State's 
third largest banking organization with 8.5 per cent of total 

1404 
- 2 -
deposits in the State, As Applicant has no present operations 
or subsidiaries, consummation of the proposal would eliminate 
neither existing nor potential competition. Neither does it 
appear that there would be adverse effects on any bank in the 
area involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Bank are generally satisfactory, as would be those of Applicant 
upon approval. Consummation of the proposal would have no 
immediate effect 
on the convenience and needs of the community 
involved. Considerations under these factors are consistent 
with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposal would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
It is hereby orderd, For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 

4' 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 3, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

jflRi psp 
1406 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• r THE 
Item No . 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6/3/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE DOARD 
June 3, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Arkansas Bank 6c Trust Company 
Hot Springs, Arkansas 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f) (3) (i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $1,000,000 in subordinated notes by Arkansas Bank &. Trust 
Company, Hot Springs, Arkansas, as proposed in President Cupp1s 
letter of May 14, 1971, with enclosures to the Board of 
Governors. It is understood that any advertising with respect 
to the obligations will, in addition to being in compliance 
with the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly 
distinguish the nature of the obligation from a deposit, 
including by setting forth in bold face type that the 
obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1407 
Item No. 5 
6/3/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Applications of 
THE CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN NATIONAL BANK and 
THE CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN HOLDING COMPANY, 
Savannah, Georgia, 
v '.•„'<' 
I'•. ; v :'.. 
< 
. .. 
for a determination under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
relating to the planned activities of their 
nonbanking subsidiary, The Citizens & 
Southern Credit Service Corporation. 
' •> 
' ' ' 
i ' ' • 
' ' 
* - 1 ' 
'' '* 
. 
L 
' •*"'.• 
V 
• C-.'. VJC'.'I 
' I. L 
' 
On November 20, 1969, pursuant to an Order of the Board of 
Governors, a hearing was held in the captioned matter before a hearing 
examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to sec-
tion 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code. The record made at 
said hearing has been duly filed with the Board, 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
°f 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) was substantively amended on December 31, 
^970, by the passage of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970, 
and section 4(c)(8), as amended, is controlling with respect to the 
issues to be determined in this matter, on April 29, 1971, the Board 
issued a Notice of Opportunity for Hearing in this matter pursuant to 
Section 4(c)(8), as amended. No request for hearing has been received 
and the time for filing any such request has elapsed. 
ORDER FOR RECOMMENDED 
DECISION OF HEARING 
EXAMINER 
DOCKET NO. - BHC-99 

-2-
1408 
Because the Hearing Examiner before whom the record was 
made has become unavailable, the Civil Service Commission has appointed 
Philip J. LaMacchia (whose address is U. S. Civil Service Commission, 
1900 E Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.) as the Hearing Examiner herein, 
pursuant to section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code. Therefore, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, That this matter be and hereby is 
referred to Hearing Examiner LaMacchia for his Recommended Decision 
pursuant to section 4(c)(8), as amended. In accordance with the Board's 
Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR 263), Applicants are hereby 
given an opportunity to file with the Examiner within 15 days of receipt 
of this Order proposed findings and conclusions and supporting briefs. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 9, 1971. 
' 
I 
, 
, .T 
JJ 
, 
. I . ' 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
