MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 22, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, January 22, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Advis er, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

i 5 7 
1/22/70 
-2-
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions. 
Policy record entries. A memorandum from Mr. Broida dated 
January 19, 1970, submitted for final review the policy record entry 
for the Federal Open Market Committee meeting on October 28, 1969. 
The entry had been approved by the Board on December 29, 1969, and 
, ' ' 
', 
" i : 
subsequently distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, who had offered 
no further suggestions. 
It was proposed to release the entry on Monday, 
January 26. 
The release of the entry was approved unanimously. 
A memorandum from Mr. Broida dated January 20, 1970, submitted 
a revised draft of policy record entry for the meeting of the Federal 
Op 
en Market Committee on November 25, 1969, that took account of 
comments received from Committee members and staff following distribu-
tion of a preliminary draft. The entry was now presented for approval 
for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1969. A specific publi-
cation date would be recommended later. 
The policy record entry was approved unanimously for inclusion 
in the Board's Annual Report. 

Z58 
1/22/70 
-3-
Bank holding company applications. The following bank holding 
company applications were approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that orders and statements reflecting these decisions would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration: 
Society Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares 
of The Xenia National Bank, Xenia, Ohio; 
buildf 
!.,-. | - . , , . . . 
, •. , 
...... . 
, 
... ; . 
First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, Florida, to 
acquire shares of The Orlando Bank and Trust Company, 
Orlando, Florida; 
First Financial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire 
shares of The First National Bank in Punta Gorda, Punta 
Gorda, Florida, and The First National Bank in Plant 
City, Plant City, Florida. 
It was understood that the letter informing First Financial 
Corporation of approval of its applications would indicate that the 
Board had given considerable weight to the corporation's assurances 
regarding improvement in the capital accounts of its present and pro-
Posed subsidiary banks. 
Philadelphia building program. In a memorandum dated January 16, 
1^70, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed a request 
by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, which had submitted sche-
matic plans for a new building to be constructed on the site purchased 
Pursuant to authorization by the Board in December 1968, that the Board 
approve proceeding sufficiently into the design development stage to 
obtain definitive cost estimates. 

1/22/70 
-4-
The memorandum described features of the proposed structure and 
adjustments in design that had been adopted pursuant to questions raised 
Mtm, 
Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
Plans. The present estimate of the cost of the building was $51.2 
million, which would be the largest single outlay for any Federal Reserve 
building in the history of the System. Moreover, it was recognized that 
Prices could rise before the start of construction, anticipated in early 
1972. 
The Division recommended that the Bank be authorized to proceed 
with the preparation of preliminary plans, but that the Board express 
concern regarding the cost of the structure and request the Bank to 
take steps to reduce both the total and unit cost of the program. 
Members of the Board raised questions regarding the space being 
Provided for expansion, especially since automated operations might 
eventually reduce both personnel and space requirements. 
In the opinion 
°f the staff, however, projected space needs were not excessive. As to 
the design of the building, it was noted that the style would be in 
harmony with the City of Philadelphia's plans for developing Independence 
Mail, in which the building site was located. Comments were made also 
regarding the 
relationship of particular design features, such as light 
Wells, to the cost of the building. 
It was brought out that arrangements were almost completed for 
e retention by the Board of a consulting architect, and there was 

260 
1/22/70 
-5-
general agreement that it would be beneficial to have his appraisal of 
the building plans. Although the Philadelphia Reserve Bank had a 
relatively firm view of the kind of building it wanted, it probably 
could be persuaded to modify its plans if such a request was supported 
by professional evaluation. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was agreement that 
the Reserve Bank should be permitted to proceed with planning, but that 
it should be made aware that the Board expected to request its consult-
ing architect, when he became available, to review the plans. 
It was 
understood that Governor Mitchell would so inform the Reserve Bank by 
telephone. 
i.. Li-:;- vvy-••«!»•,x- 
• 
• i 
Chairman Martin joined the meeting at this point. 
Security New York State Corporation. The Board unanimously 
ii£Rroved the applications of Security New York State Corporation, 
Rochester, New York, to acquire shares of The Bank of Le Roy, Le Roy, 
New York, and The Citizens Bank, Attica, New York, with the understand-
l n8 that implementing documents would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
In the discussion of these cases, it was noted that the staff, 
l n Recommending favorably, had given considerable weight to applicant's 
assurances regarding improvement of the capital of its lead bank and 
also the Attica bank. 

260 
1/22/70 
-6-
Governor Robertson commented that he voted with reluctance to 
approve both of the applications, since the result would be to eliminate 
t^o of the three existing independent banks in a highly concentrated 
market, the capital of applicant's lead bank was already low, and it 
did not appear to him that there was much to be said for the acquisi-
tions in terms of convenience and needs. 
Long Island Trust Company. 
Staff documentation regarding the 
application of Long Island Trust Company, Garden City, New York, to 
S e r 8 e Bank of Westbury Trust Company, Westbury, New York, included 
memoranda dated January 12, 1970, from the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation and the Banking Markets Section recommending approval, and 
a memorandum of January 16 in which the Legal Division expressed reser-
vations regarding the weight given by the Banking Markets Section to 
Sve "cross-elasticity of demand" approach. 
Staff comments stressed the closeness of the case, but noted 
^ at approval would remove Westbury from home office protection. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that considerations 
W e r e almost evenly balanced. 
Governor Mitchell found a small net 
negative weight because he did not believe the Westbury bank would 
aVe trouble merging with some other institution and there would be 
an advantage in having another competitor in the area. Governor Daane 
found a slightly greater weight on the plus side because of the advantage 
o f opening Westbury to competition. 
Governor Maisel was swayed by the 

1/22/70 
-7-
fact that a certain amount of acknowledged competition would be removed 
if the merger were approved. The Westbury bank had grown and was not 
insignificant, and he thought it could find another merger that would 
be less anticompetitive. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, which included references 
to questions regarding proper definition of the relevant market area, 
the proposal was denied by unanimous vote, it being understood that an 
order and statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
r } i j 
r 
_ 
Open Market Committee minutes. A memorandum dated January 21, 
l970y from the Office of the Secretary advised that in accordance with 
the recentidecision of the Federal Open Market Committee the official 
signed copies of the Committee's minutes for the years 1962-1965 were 
being prepared for transfer to National Archives. 
In the past a number 
of months had elapsed between announcement of transfer of such minutes 
and the time when copies were available for inspection, since time was 
required for Archives to make microfilms and for the System's volumes 
to be printed and bound. 
In the staff's judgment, however, it would 
b e preferable to have copies of the 1962-65 minutes available for 
inspection when their transfer was announced. 
Several "work copies" 
had therefore been prepared, which it was proposed to make available 
for inspection at the Board's offices and at the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York. Attached were drafts of a letter to the Archivist of the 
United States and a press release. 

Zt>3 
• V 
M l 
1/22/70 
-8-
Discussion developed agreement upon changes in passages of the 
letter and press release regarding deletion from the minutes of certain 
material involving relationships with other countries. 
The letter and press release were then approved unanimously in 
the form attached under Item No. 1. 
Discount rates. 
It was noted that two Reserve Banks had estab-
L c 
; y 
.'.';_» 
lished rates of 7-1/2 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
ajid corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of 
'.section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, looking forward to the possibility 
"at loans might be requested under that paragraph. 
However, the Board 
decided to defer action on those rates temporarily, pending further 
consideration of an adjustment in ceiling rates payable under Regula-
tion Q. 
y 
The meeting then adjourned 
Secretary 

Item No. 1 
1/22/70 
"HE 
C H A I R M A N 
22, 1970. 
Mr. Janes B. Rhoads, 
Archivist of the United States, 
National Archives Building, 
Washington,. D. C. 
20408 
fear Mr. Rhoads: 
In 1964 the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
-System and the Federal Open Market Committee authorized the 
transfer fron the Board to the custody of the Archivist of the 
United State;; of the original minutes of meetings of the Federal 
Open Market Committee from the date of i n organization in March 
^ 3 6 to the end of the year 1960. 
In 196 7 transfer of the 
minutes of Committee meetings in the year 1961 was authorized. 
Those transfers were completed, and the records in question have 
since been available to interested persons. 
The: Board and the Committee have now authorized the 
transfer to (he custody of the Archivist of the United States of 
the minutes of meetings of the Committee for the years 1962-65, 
inclusive. 
These minutes, comprising approximately 4900 pages 
°f typed material, are being transferred on the same understand-
ing as that applicable to the earlier minutes, that is, that the 
Rational Archives will make them available for inspection by 
interested persons under its usual rules and procedures. 
As you will observe from the prefatory note attached 
to the. volumes for each year in the 1962-65 period, a few pages 
the original minutes have been replaced by substitute pages 
which particular passages contained in the original minutes 
are deleted. 
In each such case, the point at which the deletion 
as been made is noted and the general nature or subject of the 
omitted passage is indicated by footnote. 
Reasons for which 
eletions have been made are given in the prefatory note. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wrn. McC. Martin, Jr. 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C 
5 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E OF 
January 

-.mm. 
it 
••• ". ! » ^ 
i t 
k 
j? 
m i i i i ^ / E ^ M M 
W 
• v
:.:' ji 
.. 
^ 
. 
. 
^ 
„ 
^ 
f^Eif:-
For immediate release. 
January 22, 1970. 
'ihe Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and 
the Feder al Open Market Committee announced today that minutes of 
discussions and actions at the Committee's meetings during the years 
!962 through 1965 are being transferred to the National Archives. 
These minutes are contained in approximately 4900 pages of 
typed material. 
Their transfer has been arranged on the understanding 
that the National Archives will make them available for inspection by 
interested persons under its usual rules and procedures. 
Similar records for earlier years are already available at 
the National Archives on the same basis; minutes of the Committee for 
tlu- years 1936 through 1960 were transferred in 1964, and those for 
were transferred in 1967. 
The National Archives will furnish 
complete microfilm copies of these earlier minutes at cost, and will 
he prepared later to furnish similar copies c£ the 1962-65 minutes. 
Copies of the records for the years 1962 through 1965 also 
will be made available later for public inspection at the Board's 
offices in Washington and at each Federal Reserve Bank and Branch, 
the same procedure followed with respect to earlier records. 
Mean-
while, a work copy will be available for inspection at the Board's 
°£fices, and another at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Release of the minutes for 1962 through 1965 presented special 
Problems involving international financial relationships, an area in 
which Federal Reserve activity has increased considerably in recent 
Voars. 
Consequently, a few sentences or paragraphs have been deleted, 
With a footnote in each case indicating the general nature or subject 
o f the deleted matter. 
-0-
