67) 
Minutes for 
February 9, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
/*) yi 
-try 
Mm 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 9, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
• 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Eckert, Keir, Baker, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and 
Kichline of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Bradshaw, Gekker, 
Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Today's review included comments by Mr. 
Bernard on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit 
projections, and by Mr. Ruckdeschel on gold and foreign exchange market 
developments. Copies of the tables and charts distributed in connec-
tion with today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research staff except Messrs. Brill and Partee 
then withdrew and the following entered: 

2/9/68 
-2-
Messrs. Shull, Greenspun, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on February 8, 1968, 
of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Request for deposit data (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Department of Justice in response to its 
request for deposit data for individual banking offices in the United 
States as of June 30, 1966. A copy of the approved letter is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
Application of Mid-Wis Bankshares. There had been distributed 
under date of January 29, 1968, staff memoranda and other pertinent 
papers relating to the application of Mid-Wis Bankshares, Inc., 
Madison, Wisconsin, for approval of action to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of Madison Bank & Trust 
Company and The Westgate Bank, both of Madison, Wisconsin. The rec-
ommendations were favorable. 
After consideration, the application was approved unanimously 
with the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the 
decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2/9/68 
-3-
Secretary's Notes: At its meeting on 
January 17, 1968, the Board approved a 
revision of the Loss Sharing Agreement 
of the Federal Reserve Banks with the 
understanding that the revision would 
become effective when a duly executed 
counterpart original had been received 
from each Reserve Bank. Such counter-
parts having been received, the Reserve 
Banks were notified today by telegram 
that the revised Agreement became effec-
tive February 9, 1968. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memoranda from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
February 8 and 9, 1968, recommending, respectively, that G. Howland 
Chase and Chapman C. Fleming be appointed as consultants on a tempo-
rary contractual basis until December 31, 1968, with compensation at 
the rate of $80 per day for each day worked for the Board and, when 
in travel status, transportation expenses and per diem to be paid in 
accordance with the Board's travel regulations. 
(Messrs. Chase and 
Fleming would serve as consultants in connection with the truth-in-
lending program.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
February 8, 1968, recommending that arrangements be made for a sub-
stitute nurse to be on duty in the Board's Health Room at the Water-
gate Office Building each Tuesday and Thursday afternoon for about 
four hours, the additional cost in nurses' fees being approximately 
$1,500 for the balance of the year. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
February 2, 1968, recommending that an economist position in the 
National Income, Labor Force, and Trade Section be transferred to 
the Banking Section. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
February 8, 1968, recommending that four undergraduate university 
students be retained on a temporary contractual basis with compensa-
tion at the rate of $2 an hour, to collect certain data with respect 
to the portfolios of investment companies in connection with the new 
margin regulations. 

2/9/68 
-4-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Rudolph P. Michaud as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
John Samuel Cartledge as Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,776, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective February 11, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Office of the Secretary 
Rosalie Dulin, Records Clerk 
$ 4,995 
$ 5,161 
Research and Statistics 
Julia G. Back, Library Assistant 
5,937 
6,734 
Linda L. Cochran, Secretary 
5,751 
6,137 
Paul Schweitzer, Economist 
12,607 
13,507 
Mary Ellen Stroupe, Research Assistant 
7,409 
8,054 
Neva G. Van Peski, Economist 
11,461 
11,843 
International Finance 
Suzanne C. Swenson, Senior Clerk 
5,565 
5,751 
Examinations 
Carolyn Marie Nesbit, Stenographer 
4,995 
5,161 
Personnel Administration 
Jeannie Chipouras, Personnel Clerk 
4,995 
5,161 

2/9/68 
-5-
Salary increases, effective February 11, 1968 (continued) 
Name and title 
Division 
Data Processing 
Robert J. Freeman, Sr., Production Control 
Clerk 
Ethel M. Hummel, Statistical Assistant 
Constance M. Johnson, Keypunch Supervisor 
Leave without pay 
Clifford V. Glover, Messenger, Division of Administrative Ser-
vices, for a period of approximately three months beginning January 29, 
1968. 
Basic annual salary 
From 
To 
$5,751 
$5,937 
5,751 
5,937 
5,565 
5,751 

368 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
2/9/68 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 9, 1968. 
Mr. Donald F. Turner, 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Antitrust Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 20530. 
Dear Mr. Turner: 
In response to your request of January 22, 1968, booklets 
containing computer printouts of deposit data for individual banking 
offices by counties in the United States as of June 30, 1966 are 
being prepared and will be sent to your office within the next few 
days. 
The data in these booklets were collected by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation in the course of obtaining data for 
estimating its deposit insurance liability. Although surveys of this 
nature have been made at irregular intervals since 1934, it was not 
until 1966 that the Corporation endeavored to collect comprehensive 
information regarding the number of accounts and the amount of deposits 
for individual banking offices. While this information is very useful 
for an understanding of institutional structure and markets, it never-
theless has shortcomings which limit its usefulness for some types of 
comparative and analytical purposes. 
Some of the problems associated with the use of these data 
have been discussed with members of your staff. As the originator of 
the series, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is, of course, 
fully informed about the construction and limitations of the series. 
Accordingly, your staff may also wish to discuss specific detailed 
data concerning individual banks or cities with Mrs. Mary T . Mitchell 
or Mr. Theodore G. Flechsig of the FDIC before substantial reliance 
is placed upon them in any analysis. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
