FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
February 27, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
h/ 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes 

647 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, February 27, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Messrs. Broida and Bernard, 
Assistant Secretaries 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance, and other officers and staff 
of the Division 
Messrs. Hackley, Molony, and Cardon, 
Assistants to the Board 
Messrs. Coyne and Nichols, Special 
Assistants to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics, and other officers 
and staff of the Division 
A summary of current nonfinancial economic data was presented, 
followed by the usual weekly money market review. Copies of the statis-
tical charts and tables prepared for today's review have been placed in 
the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the review, members of the staff who 
had attended for that purpose left the meeting and Messrs. Hexter, 
General Counsel, O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel, and Mertz, Senior 
Attorney, entered. 

618 
2/27/70 
-2-
Report on H.R. 2. Unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to the Bureau of the Budget (copy attached as Item No. 1) regarding 
H.R. 2, an enrolled bill "To amend the Federal Credit Union Act so as 
to provide for an independent Federal Agency for the supervision of 
federally chartered credit unions, and for other purposes." 
Bank subordinated notes. Governor Robertson, who had caused 
to be distributed yesterday afternoon a revised draft of notice of 
proposed rule making entitled "Certain Subordinated Obligations as 
Deposits" that would be published for comment, said he had obtained 
general interagency agreement on this form of notice. The principal 
change from the draft discussed by the Board yesterday was to provide 
that the term "deposit," as used in Regulations D and Q, would not 
include an obligation designated as a capital note or debenture that, 
among other things, was in an amount of not less than $20,000 (except 
any such notes or debentures offered to shareholders of the issuing 
bank on a pro rata basis). 
The revised draft of notice also indicated that the term 
"deposit" would not include an obligation that was designated as a 
capital note or debenture and, among other things, had an original 
maturity of more than two years. However, Governor Robertson now 
recommended changing this to "more than five years," adding that it 
would be easier to relax following consideration of comments from 

618 
2/27/70 
-2-
iriterested parties, if such relaxation was considered desirable, than 
to tighten the terms of the published proposal. 
The revised draft also indicated that the terms of the proposal 
would not affect any instrument that was issued before March 10, 1970, 
and met specified requirements. It was now suggested that this be 
changed to "before March 9, 1970." 
Governor Robertson further suggested that the restrictive termi-
nology of the proposal, as to minimum amount, be modified to exclude 
capital notes or debentures that are "part of an issue of securities 
sold by means of a pre-emptive rights offering, an underwriting, or 
other securities marketing channel not connected with the issuing 
bank's regular banking operations and personnel." 
Additionally, Governor Robertson explained other less signif-
icant differences between the draft now before the Board and the draft 
considered by the Board yesterday. The minimum five-year provision, he 
said, was strongly urged by the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. The provision of a short 
period of grace to March 9 was apparently warranted because it was 
known that in some cases plans for the issuance of securities that 
would not conform to the proposed definitions were already well ad-
vanced. On the other hand, it appeared necessary to limit the grace 
period to insure against a large number of offerings being made quickly 
to "beat the gun." 

618 
2/27/70 
-2-
After discussion of the terms of the revised proposal, including 
the changes now suggested by Governor Robertson, and the effect of 
various provisions, it was agreed unanimously to release the proposal 
next Monday, with subsequent publication in the Federal Register. 
Lati-
tude was granted to Governor Robertson to make minor technical changes 
in the proposal if they were found necessary or desirable upon final 
review. 
Attached under Item No. 2 are copies of the press statement and 
attachment issued on Monday, March 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

651 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 1 
2/27/70 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
February 27, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Attention: 
Mrs. Garziglia 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in reply to your letter of February 25, 1970, 
requesting the Board's views on H.R. 2, an enrolled bill, "To amend 
the Federal Credit: Union Act so as to provide for an independent 
Federal Agency for the supervision of federally chartered credit 
unions, and for other purposes." 
The Board understands that the major purpose of this 
bill is to spin off the Bureau of Federal Credit Unions from the 
Department of Health, Education and Welfare. This reorganizational 
proposal does not relate to the Board's area of responsibility, and 
the Board has no comments to offer for your consideration. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 2 
2/27/70 
For immediate release 
March 2, 1970 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today it is considering establishing a new minimum denomination and 
maturity on subordinated notes and debentures that are presently outside 
the definition of "deposit" and are being sold by member banks without 
regard to reserve requirements and interest rate ceilings. 
Comments 
on the proposal should be submitted to the Board by April 2, 
The intent of the proposed amendments is to distinguish between 
deposit-type funds and true capital funds. 
The proposal would establish a minimum maturity of more than 
five years and a minimum denomination of $20,000 on such capital notes 
and debentures. Present regulations specify a minimum maturity of more 
than two years but do not specify a minimum denomination for capital 
notes or debentures. 
Under the proposal a capital note or debenture would be exempt 
from reserve requirements (Regulation D) and interest rate ceilings 
(Regulation Q) if it (1) has an original maturity of more than five 
years, (2) is expressly subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
is unsecured, (3) expressly states that it will not be eligible as 
collateral for a loan by the issuing bank, and (4) is issued in 
denominations not less than $20,000, with certain exceptions. 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
-0-

653 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 204, 217] 
RESERVED OF UEIIBER BANKS; INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Certain Subordinated Obligations as Deposits 
The Board of Governors is considering changing present 
requirements for an obligation issued by a member bank subordinated 
to the claims of depositors to be classified by the bank as a non-
deposit borrowing for the purposes of member bank reserve requirements 
(Regulation D) and interest rate controls (Regulation Q). 
This would be accomplished by amending the relevant 
portions of ยง 204.1(f) and ยง 217.1(f) to read as follows: 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and 
other obligations. 
[The term "deposit" does not include an obliga-
tion that] 
(3) is designated as a capital note or capital debenture 
and possesses the following characteristics: 
(i) has an original maturity of more than five years; 
(ii) is subordinated expressly to the claims of de-
positors and is unsecured; 
(iii) expressly provides that it will not be eligible 
as collateral for a loan by the issuing bank; and 
(iv) is of a denomination not less than $20,000, unless 
part of an issue of securities sold by means of a pre-emptive rights 
offering, an underwriting, or other securities marketing channel 

-2-
{>54 
not connected with the issuing bank's regular banking operations and 
personnel or those of its affiliates; 
but this subparagraph (3) shall not affect (A) any instrument issued 
before March 9, 1970, that has an original maturity of more than two 
years, is unsecured, and states expressly that it is subordinated to 
the claims of depositors, or (B) capital notes or debentures issued, 
other than to the general public, by a national bank with the specific 
approval of the Comptroller of the Currency or by a State member bank 
with the specific approval of its State supervisor and the Board of 
Governors, upon a determination in each case that exigent circumstances 
require the issuance of such capital notes or debentures without regard 
to the provisions of this Part. 
* 
* 
* 
-k 
* 
Recent evidence indicates that member banks are marketing 
certain types of subordinated obligations to acquire deposit-type 
funds, with results that the Board considers as impairing the effective 
application of regulations with respect to deposit interest rates and 
reserve requirements. The intent of the amendment is to distinguish 
between deposit-type funds and true capital funds. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than April 2, 1970. 

655 
-3-
Under the Board's rules regarding availability of information 
(12 CFR Part 261), such materials will be made available for in-
spection and copying upon request unless the person submitting the 
material asks that it be considered confidential. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 27, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
