MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 21, 1971 

2450 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 21, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 4:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Prior to the convening of today's meeting, the research staff 
had presented briefings regarding the housing study. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously, for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, a report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Chester National Bank, 
Chester, New York, and Bankers Trust Hudson Valley, N.A., Poughkeepsie, 
New York. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is some competition existing between The Chester 
National Bank and Bankers Trust Hudson Valley, N.A., Poughkeepsie, 
a subsidiary of Bankers Trust New York Corporation, and there is 
potential for increased competition between the two banks. The 
proposal would permit a subsidiary of the largest multi-bank 
holding company in the State to expand its operations through mer-
ger in a market in which the subsidiary already has received per-
mission to enter de novo. The overall competitive effect of the 
proposed merger would be adverse. 

2451 
9/21/71 
-2-
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on September 10, 1971, of the application of Banks 
of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, to acquire shares of Union Bank and 
Trust Company, Ottumwa, Iowa. Copies of the documents are attached 
under Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Plaza Bancshares, 
Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to Plaza Bank of 
Commerce, Kansas City, Missouri, and authorized the issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by American Bancorpo-
ration, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Linwood State Bank, Kansas City, 
Missouri, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously an application by Empire Shares 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire additional shares of 
Community State Bank, Albany, New York, and authorized the issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
The Board denied unanimously an application by Fidelity American 
Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, to acquire shares of Peoples Bank 
of Gretna, Gretna, Virginia, and authorized the issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting that decision. Copies of the documents are attached 
under Item No. 5. 

245^ 
9/21/71 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously applications by Galbank, Inc., 
and its wholly-owned subsidiary, United States National Bancshares, 
Inc., both of Galveston, Texas, to acquire shares of Sugar Land State 
Bank, Sugar Land, Texas, and authorized the issuance of an order reflect-
ing that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas interposing no objection to the purchase of additional 
property adjoining the present head office building. A copy of the let-
ter is attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
BANKS OF IOWA, INC.,
 
1 
c
edar Rapids, Iowa,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per ' 
c
ent or more of the voting shares of
 
1 
Union Bank and Trust Company,
 
1 
°ttumwa, Iowa. 
» 
i 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e
ction 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
•^42(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids 
Iowa, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 30 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Union Bank and Trust Company, Ottumwa, 
("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Department of 
inking of the State of Iowa and requested its views and recommenda-
The Superintendent of Banking of the State of Iowa recommended 
approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 15, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11538), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered. 
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
a
PPlication be and hereby is approved for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, provided that the action so approved 
s
hall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
following the date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after 
fc
he date of this Orc]tp,r, unless such period is extended for good cause 
h
y the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2455 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BANKS OF IOWA, INC., 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
UNION BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, OTTUMWA, IOWA 
STATEMENT 
Banks of Iowa, Inc., Cedar Rapids, Iowa, ("Applicant"), a 
b
ank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842 (a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m
°
re o f 
t h
e voting shares of Union Bank and Trust Company, Ottumwa, 
Iowa ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Department 
o f
 Banking of the State of Iowa of receipt of the application and re-
quested its views and recommendation thereon. The Superintendent of 
inking of the State of Iowa recommended approval of the proposed 
a c
quisition. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
th 
a t
 the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
^nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
^ o p o l i z e or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
p a r
t of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 

acquisition the effect of Xsrtvich, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
Posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
Squired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
b
anks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
fi
-fth largest banking organization and fourth largest bank holding 
c
°mpany in Iowa, controls one bank, The Merchants National Bank of 
Ce
<*ar Rapids ("Merchants"), with deposits of approximately $161 million, 
Representing 2.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
Sfc
ate. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect 
h
°lding company formations and acquisitions approved through August 31, 
l 9 7 1
- > 
Applicant's acquisition of Union Bank (about $44 million in 
Posits) would increase Applicant's share of deposits in Iowa by .7 
Percentage points and result in Applicant's becoming the fourth largest 
k
Qri
king organization and bank holding company in Iowa. 
Union Bank is the largest of four banks located in Wapello 
Co n
t y , the relevant market area, with 54.4 per cent of deposits in 

245' 
-3-
the market. The closest office of Merchants to Union Bank is approxi-
mately 63 miles away and neither bank obtains a significant amount of 
deposits or loans from the other's market. On the facts of record, 
notably, the distance involved, the large number of banks in the inter-
vening area, and the State's restrictive branching law, there appears to 
be little likelihood that significant competition between the two banks 
w
ould develop in the future. 
The Board has considered a report of the Department of Justice 
which concluded that "The overall effect of this transaction on compe-
tition would, therefore, be adverse." The Department advised that no 
e
ffect on existing competition between Merchants and Union Bank could 
be anticipated from consummation of the proposal herein but that 
Potential competition between Applicant and Bank would be eliminated 
because Applicant could enter the Ottumwa area market <ie novo or by 
a c
quiring a smaller bank, or Union Bank could organize a bank holding 
company and enter the Cedar Rapids market to become a competitor of 
Applicant's. 
Entry into the Wapello County market on a de novo basis does 
n
°t appear to be attractive. The evidence shows that the population 
Wapello County declined by 8.6 per cent over the past decade, and 
*t is expected that the county will not experience more than moderate 
G c
onomic growth in the near future. Additionally, the present popula-
tion per banking office, and the ratio of deposits to banking offices, 
itl
 the market area are not attractive for new entry. 

245' 
-4-
There appears to be little likelihood of Applicant's acquiring 
a smaller bank in the Wapello market than Union Bank. Applicant has 
stated that, of the three banks in Ottumwa, the second largest bank 
** » 
(26 .8 per cent of market deposits) in the market area is not available 
because of that bank's long-existing ties with a large Des Moines bank, 
a
nd the apparent disinterest of the controlling shareholders to affiliate 
w
ith Applicant; and that the third largest bank (15.9 per cent of 
Market deposits) which is family-owned and controlled appears to have 
n o
 interest in selling to or in joining with Applicant or any other 
bank holding company. 
Consummation of the proposal would eliminate Bank as a 
Potential lead bank in a regional bank holding company; however, Union 
bank's top management is near retirement age and the bank at present 
d
°es not appear to have the management depth to become the lead bank 
a holding company. 
Although Union Bank is the largest in the relevant market 
area, its rate of growth during the last five years has been consider-
ably 
less than that of any of the other banks in Wapello County, and 
B a
nk's share of the market has declined from 60 to 54 per cent. Thus, 
other banks in the area have been successful in competing with Bank, 
and it is believed that consummation of the proposal would not have any 
si
8nificant adverse effect on any of the competing banks. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
^ a t consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly, n C r 

2459 
-5-
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States and 
would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Appl icant, its subsidiary bank and Bank are satisfactory. However, 
Bank's top management is near retirement age and management depth is 
lacking. It will be necessary for Bank to have an available source of 
qualified management personnel if it is to continue to assist in the 
development of the Ottumwa area. Applicant's ability to provide for 
management as required lends weight in favor of approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - As 
s t
ated above, Wapello County's economy has experienced difficulties 
i n
 recent years and prospects for the near future are uncertain. 
However, efforts are being made to revitalize the area's lagging economy 
through an extensive urban renewal program approved for Ottumwa and 
t o
 be implemented during the next several years. Affiliation with 
A
PPlicant would expand Bank's effective lending limit which should 
Assist the community in acquiring and servicing new industrial and 
c
°nuiiercial enterprises. Applicant proposes to ensure capable manage-
^ftt and to make available to Bank the investment knowledge of 
applicant's present subsidiary bank. Considerations related to the 
c
°nvenience and needs of the communities lend weight fcr approval of the 
Application. 

2460 
- 6 -
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 21, 1971 

Item N o . ^ ^ 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
PLAZA BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of 
successor by merger to the Plaza 
Sank of Commerce, Kansas City, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e
ction 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
42(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Plaza Bancshares, Inc., Kansas 
City, 
Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
o f
 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
Spares) of the successor by merger to the Plaza Bank of Commerce, 
Kansas City, Missouri ("Bank"). (Bank is to be merged into a nonoperating 
hank that has significance only as a vehicle to accomplish the acquisition 
o f
 all the shares of Bank; accordingly, acquisition of the shares of the 
Accessor bank is treated as an acquisition of the shares of Bank.) 

2462 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
of Finance of the State of Missouri, and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner did not object to approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 28, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13951), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
a
nd the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
finds that: 
Applicant is a recently organized corporation, formed for 
the purpose of becoming a bank holding company. Bank (deposits of 
$46.4 million) is the eighth largest of 40 banks in the Kansas City 
a r
ea and the eleventh largest of 125 banks in the Kansas City SMSA, 
controlling 1.4 per cent of the deposits in that SMSA and only .4 
P
e
r cent of the total commercial bank deposits in Missouri. 
(Banking 
d a
ta are as of December 31, 1970.) 

24.62 
• 
-3-
The proposal constitutes a corporate reorganization and 
reflects no expansion of the corporate interests or significant change 
in the character of banking facilities involved; consummation of the 
Proposal would not alter existing banking competition nor significantly 
a
ffect potential competition. The financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant and Bank are satisfactory and consis-
tent with approval of the application. Consummation of the proposal 
^ould not have any immediate effects on the convenience and needs of 
the community, but improved services may be provided in the future under 
the more flexible corporate structure of the holding company system. 
ij f 4 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be 
the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that said 
a
Pplication be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
^ e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
lah 
c e
r than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
P
e
riod is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal 
fop. 
e s
erve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
i 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[s
EAL] 

2464 
Item No. 3 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C« 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERICAN BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 90 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Linwood State Bank, Kansas City, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by American Bancorporation, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action 
^hereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Linwood 
State Bank, Kansas City, Missouri ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Missouri Com-
missioner of Finance, and requested his views and recommendation. 
^•he Commissioner responded that his office had no objection to 
i 
approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 24, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13820), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal• A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
an all those received have been considered,, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant 
and the bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant, a nonoperating corporation, was formed for 
the express purpose of acquiring Bank ($18.9 million deposits). 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1970.) Members of the 
^ i c e family directly or indirectly own approximately 95 per cent 
°f the voting shares of Bank. The proposed transaction is essentially 
a corporate reorganization in which the ownership of Bank will be 
realigned among its major stockholders. Inasmuch as Applicant 
has no present operations or subsidiaries, consummation of the 
Proposal would not alter existing banking competition nor signifi-
cantly affect potential competition. Nor does it appear that there 
w
°uld be any adverse effects on any bank in the area. 

2466 
-3* 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval of the applica-
Cl
°n. In acquiring Bank) Applicant will incur a substantial debt 
1
n relation to its net worth, which will require an extended repay-
m e
nt tperiod. Although long term acquisition debt is a matter of 
concern to the Board, the particular facts of this case do not 
indicate the financial stability of the holding company or the 
b
ank will be weakened as a result thereof. Bank is well capitalized 
a
nd its past earnings indicate that Applicant will be able to 
r e
adily service the debt from future earnings without adversely 
affecting the condition of Bank. Furthermore, Applicant indicates 
that it will not pay any dividends as long as the debt is outstanding 
an(
l that the dividends of Bank will be limited to the amount necessary 
to service the debt. In light of these considerations, the Board 
d o e s n
°t consider the acquisition debt in this case to be such as 
t o
 require denial of the application. 
Consummation of the proposal would have no immediate effect 
°
n
 the convenience and needs of the community involved, but improved 
Se
^vices may be provided in the future because of the more flexible 
c
°*porate structure of the holding company. It is the Board's 
judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest, 
that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that 
^id application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized 
°
Ve
> provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 

2467 
-4-
m 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, ?Iaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
[SEAL] 

2468 
Item No. 4 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE TIIE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
* 
•» 
the Matter of the Application of 
' 
EMPIRE SHARES CORPORATION, 
« 
New York, New York, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 39.9627
 
1 
P
e
r cent of the voting shares of
 
1 
Community State Bank, Albany, New York. ' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l G
^2(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Empire Shares Corporation, 
York, New York, a registered bank holding company, which presently 
°
V;tls 4 2
• 7 per cent of the voting shares of Community State Bank ("Bank"), 
Alh 
*Dany, New York, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
additional 39.9627 per cent of the voting shares of Bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of 
of the State of New York, and requested his views and recommendation. 
Th 
G
 Superintendent has offered no objection to approval of the application. 

-2-
2469 
Notice of receipt of the application yt^ published in the 
Federal Register on August 19, 1971 (36 Federal Register 16144), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its considera-
tion. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds 
that: 
Applicant is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Horris Plan 
Corporation, New York, New York, a registered bank holding company that 
i s
 a wholly-owned subsidiary of Financial General Bankshares, Inc., 
Washington, D. C., also a registered bank holding company. The shares 
o f
 Bank which Applicant in this application- proposes to acquire are 
Presently owned in varying amounts by four other wholly-owned subsidiaries 
o f
 The Morris Plan Corporation each of which is a registered bank hold-
i n
S company. Under Applicant's proposal, each of these four bank hold-
i n
8 companies would issue its shares of Bank as a dividend to The Morris 
pi 
an Corporation which would then contribute said Bank shares to Appli-
cant. 

2470 
-3-
Applicant, presently the twelfth largest of fourteen existing 
or proposed multi-bank holding companies in the State of New York, has 
three subsidiary banks with $314 million in aggregate deposits, repre-
senting 0.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All banking data, except where othend.se indicated, are as of December 31, 
1970, and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board to August 31, 1971.) Bank, presently the ninth largest of 
fifteen banking organizations competing in the Albany banking market, 
which is approximated by Albany, Schenectady, and Rensselaer Counties, 
had $34.2 million in deposits as of June 30, 1970, representing 1.6 per 
cent of total commercial bank deposits in the area and 0.04 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in the State, 
Inasmuch as the proposal merely constitutes a strengthening 
of Applicant's already substantial control over Bank and projects no 
change in the character of the banking facilities involved, consumma-
tion of the proposal would neither increase the amount of deposits 
which Applicant controls, nor alter its present ranking. Similarly, 
consummation of the proposal would not alter existing banking competi-
tion nor foreclose potential competition, nor have any adverse effects 
°n other banks in the Albany market. The financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and Bank are regarded as 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. It appears 
that the convenience and needs of the communities involved will not be 
affected by consummation of this proposal. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 

2471 
-4-
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons summarized above, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action; Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
^SEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

Item No. 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC,, 
Lynchburg, Virginia, 
f
°r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Peoples Bank of Gretna, Gretna, Virginia. 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8 4 2
(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(l o CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Fidelity American Bankshares, 
*
U c
'> Lynchburg, Virginia, a registered bank holding company, for 
tVi 
G
 Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
o f
 the voting shares of Peoples Bank of Gretna, Gretna, Virginia 
("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
W r
itten notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia 
CQ 
^issioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation. 
e
 Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

2473 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 20, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13350), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered. 
It Is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and 
hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 21, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2474 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSHARES, INC., 
LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
PEOPLES BANK OF GRETNA, GRETNA, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, 
a
 registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
G
°vernors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c
t of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Peoples 
B a
nk of Gretna, Gretna, Virginia ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
r e
quired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the 
V l
*ginia Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application 
a n c l
 requested his views and recommendation thereon. The 
Co 
ttniissioner recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
Provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that 
w
°uld result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any 
^iblnation or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize 

2475 
-2-
the business of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may 
the Board approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in 
a
ny section of the country, may be substantially to lessen competi-
tion, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner 
would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o
 be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and 
e convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction, - Applicant 
c
°ntrols five banks with aggregate deposits approximating $310.7 
m i
U i o n and is the eighth largest banking organization in Virginia. 
Th 
G
 acquisition of Bank (deposits of $10.5 million) would increase 
applicant's share of commercial bank deposits in the State from 
3.9 
Per cent to 4.0 per cent and would not change its present 
r a
nkin s <- 
( A H banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and 
ref i 
^Aect hold ing company formations and acquisitions approved by 
th Sfoard through August 15, 1971.) 
c 0 n?
n
 separate Orders dated September 16, 1971, the Board has approved 
r^Q
 C u r r e
n t applications filed by Applicant to acquire 80 per cent or 
G
.°
f t h e v o t i n
S shares of The Culpeper National Bank, Culpeper, 
and Metompkin Bank and Trust Company, Parks ley, Virginia. 
Vi,.
 
t i o n 
b
°th banks will increase Applicant's share of the total 
p0 ?
i n i a
 deposits to 4.3 per cent, while its State-wide competitive 
ition will remain unaltered. 

2476 
-3-
Bank operates but one office, located in Gretna, Virginia, 
a town with an approximate population of 950 and situated in the north-
2/ 
central part of Pittsylvania County. Its principal competitors" are 
two banking organizations located 13 miles to the north in Altavista, 
a town on the southern edge of Campbell County. One of the Altavista 
banks is a branch office of Applicant's lead bank. 
The primary service area of Bank includes the town of Gretna 
and that portion of Pittsylvania County within an approximate radius 
of 10 miles. However, considering the importance of Altavista as a 
trade and employment center for an area that includes Gretna, and the 
fact that Bank is situated on the same arterial highway as the Altavista 
office of The Fidelity National Bank, Applicant's lead bank, with no 
intervening banks between the two, there would appear to be a definite 
overlap between the service area of Bank and that of Applicant's 
Altavista branch. This is confirmed by the extent of loan and deposit 
business which each derives from the service area of the other. 
Almost 14 per cent of the total deposits and 10 per cent of 
the loans of the Altavista branch of Fidelity National originate in 
the service area of Bank. A further indication of Fidelity National's 
2/ Two Chatham banks, located approximately 10 miles south of Gretna, 
are excluded from our analysis, since they are much less competitive 
in the Altavista-Gretna market than mere proximity would indicate. 
This is primarily due to the fact that the town of Chatham is more 
oriented to the city of Danville (population 46,400) in terms of both 
employment and trade. 

247? 
-4-
entrenchment in Bank's service area is observed from the fact that 
almost 14 per cent of its instalment loans and over 12 per cent of 
its time loans originate in the Gretna area. Thus, within the 
Altavista-Gretna market, there is a substantial amount of present 
competition between Fidelity National and Bank. Both banks actively 
compete for this banking business, among other ways, through their 
advertisements in the Altavista Journal, the area's only newspaper. 
Of the three banks located in the Altavista-Gretna banking 
market, The First National Bank of Altavista holds the largest, or 
per cent, of area deposits. Bank ranks second, with 30.7 per 
cent of market deposits, while the branch office of The Fidelity 
National Bank, Applicant's lead bank, ranks third in size with 25.4 
Per cent. Affiliation of Bank with Applicant would thus increase 
applicant
1
s share of market deposits to 56.1 per cent, and enable it 
t o
 control the dominant share in this market. Banking customers 
W l
thin the Altavista-Gretna market are, for the most part, almost 
Wholly dependent upon the three present banking institutions for the 
Pri
-ce and quality of their banking needs. Should the number of bank-
alternatives in the market be reduced from three to two, the 
v i
3or of competition is likely to diminish. These alternatives bring 
S u b
stantial weight against approval of the present proposal. 
There are apparently several banking organizations in 
ginia who are desirous of entering the Altavista-Gretna market 
thr °ugh acquisition of Bank. One such potential entrant made a firm 

-5-
offer of affiliation with Bank, while negotiations with another were 
terminated when Bank made a decision to seek affiliation with the 
Applicant. Neither of these alternative proposals would have the 
anticompetitive consequences as are to be found in the present 
application. 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in further-
ance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the busi-
ness of banking in any area. However, the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposal are sufficiently serious as to provide significant weight 
against approval of the application. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
satisfactory, their management is capable, and prospects of the 
group are favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are generally 
S a
tisfactory, and its prospects, whether operating independently or 
a s a
 subsidiary of Applicant, are favorable. 
These considerations, while consistent with approval of 
the application, provide no significant weight in support of such 
a c
tion. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - As 
' .PPlicant concedes, Bank's loan limit of $90,000 has thus far not 
IProved detrimental to its customers. Affiliation with Applicant 

2479 
-6-
would not provide any additional services not presently available 
in the area through the AltaVista branch of Applicant's lead bank. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are little more than consistent with approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained 
in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
.• fi 
transaction would not be in the public interest, and the application 
should be denied. 
September 21, 1971 

Item No. 
9/21/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Applications of 
GALBANK, INC,, and its wholly-owned 
subsidiary, UNITED STATES NATIONAL 
BANCSHARES, INC., both of Galveston, 
Texas 9 
for approval of acquisition of 61.15 
per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Sugar Land State Bank, Sugar Land, 
Texas. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), applications by Galbank, Inc. ("Galbank"), and 
its wholly-owned subsidiary, United States National Bancshares, Inc. 
("National"), for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
6
1.15 per cent or more of the voting shares of Sugar Land State Bank, 
s
«gar Land / Texas, ("Bank"). The acquisition will be made by National 
a n d 
a s a
 result Galbank will indirectly acquire voting shares of the 
Bank. 

-2-
2481 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
writte n notice of receipt of the applications to the Texas Commissioner 
of Banking and requeoted his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the applications was published in the 
Federal Register on August 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 14284 and 14286), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of each application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered. 
The Board has considered the applications in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and finds 
that: 
Galbank, through National, controls one bank with deposits of 
$44.8 million representing approximately .2 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in Texas. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, 
adj usted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
b
y the Board through August 31, 1971,) Acquisition of Bank (deposits 
$10.0 million) would not materially affect Applicants' share of 
deposits in the State. 

Bank is the second largest of eight banks serving the 
eastern portion of Fort Bond County and the southwestern edge of 
Houston, V7ith control of approximately 18 per cent of the area 
deposits. Applicants' bank is located 50 miles southeast of Bank 
in Galveston and there is little existing competition between the 
too. Due to the distances involved, the presence of intervening 
banks, and the Texas prohibition against branching, there is also 
little probability of future competition developing between the 
subsidiary and Bank. Considering these factors and others of record, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
^ould not adversely affect competition in any relevant area. In 
fact, acquisition of Bank by Applicants may serve to enhance corn-
Petition since it would result in the first ownership of a Houston 
area bank by a holding company located outside of Houston. 
On the record before the Board, considerations relating 
t(
> the financial condition, management and prospects of Applicants, 
their subsidiaries, and Bank are consistent with approval of the 
applications. Convenience and needs of banking customers in the 
area will be advanced through consummation of the proposed acqui-
sition since Applicants will be able to provide more extensive ser-
vices such as increased commercial loan capabilities, interim con-
struction financing, and greater consumer credit and trust services, 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be 
the public interest and that the applications should be approved. 

2482 
-4-
It is hereby ordered. On the basis of the record, that said 
applications be and hereby are approved for the reasons summarized above, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,September 21, 1971 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
(SEAL) 

OfGOV^-. _ 
2484 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
9/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 22, 1971 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
This is in response to your request in your letter of 
August 25, 1971, for approval to enter a bid co acquire additional 
property that adjoins the present Head Office building to alleviate 
difficulties in operating the security court, secure needed parking 
and storage facilities, and for future expansion of the Bank's 
office space. The Board will interpose no objection to the Bank's 
purchase of the proposed property, as described in your letter, at 
a cost of approximately $3.5 million. 
It is understood that plans for future development of 
subsurface and surface structures will be coordinated by means of 
a master plan to delineate the sequence of immediate and long-
range space and service needs of the Bank's facilities and will be 
presented, to the Board for consideration. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
