Minutes for 
January 20, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chm. Martin 
Gov. Robertson 
Gov. Shepardson 
Gov. Mitchell 
Gov. Daane 
Gov. Maisel 
Gov. Brimmer 

20 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 20, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Shepardson 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sherman, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
M r . Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
M r . Holland, Adviser to the Board 
M r . Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
M r . Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
M r . Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
M r . Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, 
Eckert, Keir, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, and Kelty 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, 
Bryant, Gemmill, Baker, and Ruckdeschel of 
the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. M r . Bernard reviewed developments in the 
G
°vernment securities market, M r . Fry discussed bank credit projections, 
a n d
 Mr. Gemmill summarized recent currency swap transactions, foreign 
C h a n g e market conditions, and developments in the Euro-dollar market. 

204 
1/20/67 
-10-
Copies of tables and charts referred to in the course of the foregoing 
Presentations have been placed in the Board's files. 
At the conclusion of this review all members of the staff except 
Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Bakke, Young, Brill, Holland, Cardon, Solomon, 
Molony, Fauver, Sammons, Leavitt, and Dahl withdrew from the room and 
the following entered: 
M r . Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on January 16 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on January 19, 1967, of the 
r a
t e s on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
S e n t
 to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
a t
tached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had been 
m a
d e available to the Board: 
Item No. 
L e
tter to The First Pennsylvania Banking and
 
1 
T r
u s t Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
a
Pproving the establishment of a branch on 
F r
ankford Avenue. 

205 
1/20/67 
-10-
Item No. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
2 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Lakewood. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
3 
Corporation regarding the application of 
Bank of Silvis, Silvis, Illinois, for 
continuation of deposit insurance after 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to Chase International Investment 
4-
Corporation, New York, New York, consenting 
to the acquisition of shares of Corporacion 
Financiera, Bogota, Colombia. 
Letter to The Company for Investing Abroad, 
5 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, consenting to 
the acquisition of shares of United Nylon 
Corporation, Taiwan. 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of First National 
Bank, Bristol, Vermont, with Chittenden Trust Company, Burlington, 
Vermont. 
At Governor Maisel's request, this matter was deferred pending 
development of additional information concerning alternate banking 
facilities in the general area of Bristol. 
Mr. Egertson then withdrew from the meeting. 
Activities of foreign banks in the U.S. 
There had been distrib-
uted memoranda from Governor Robertson, Governor Brimmer, and the Legal 
Division, respective ly dated January 19, 18, and 17, 1967, concerning 

2 n H 
1/20/67 
-4-
S. 3765 of the 89th Congress, the so-called "Javits bill" to provide 
for Federal control of activities of foreign banks in the United States. 
Governor Robertson stated that the Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation was scheduled to meet this afternoon and the proposal 
embodied in S. 3765 was on the agenda for discussion at the request of 
Under Secretary of the Treasury Barr. Accordingly, he was soliciting 
the views of the other Board members on various aspects of the matter 
in preparation for the meeting. 
In opening the discussion, Governor Robertson stated that in 
his opinion it was difficult to make a persuasive case that Federal 
legislation was needed in this area. Since establishment of a subsi-
diary bank in the United States by a foreign banking institution must 
be accomplished under either national or State charter, the subsidiary 
bank was subject to regulatory and supervisory control. 
Furthermore, 
no difficulty had been encountered in obtaining information from such 
subsidiaries already doing business in the United States concerning 
their activities, either for balance of payments reasons or otherwise. 
With regard to the establishment of branches in the United States by 
foreign banks, the laws of the host State were now applicable. 
Federal 
supervision would enable the establishment of a uniform policy for the 
U.S. as a whole. However, there would be a problem in terms of the 
Federal Government's position with respect to the ability of foreign 
banks to have branches in several States. 

2o7 
1/20/67 
-5-
On the question whether branches of foreign banks should be made 
eligible for Federal deposit insurance, Governor Robertson noted that 
such a provision would extend the benefits of deposit insurance to inter-
national customers whose deposits could be transferred into or out of the 
U.S. branches easily. 
In sum, the only real basis that he saw for Federal legislation 
was political in nature; namely, that it would be helpful in securing 
reciprocity of treatment for U.S. banks that desired to operate abroad 
through subsidiaries or branches. 
If this factor was felt to be compel-
ling, it could be accommodated by requiring authorization at the threshold 
from the Department of State or the Board of Governors before a foreign 
bank could seek approval of the appropriate bank supervisory agency to 
commence operations in the United States, either by way of a branch or 
subsidiary. 
In conclusion, Governor Robertson commented that if the Congress 
wished to place regulatory authority over branches or subsidiaries of 
foreign banks in one of the Federal bank supervisory agencies, it seemed 
logical that the Board be given this responsibility because entry of 
domestic banks into foreign operations through branches or Edge and 
"agreement" corporations already required Board approval, as did the 
expansion of foreign bank holding companies, and he felt it would be 
inadvisable to proliferate jurisdiction over foreign banking matters. 
Governor Shepardson stated that the only real problem he saw was 
the present inconsistency between the interstate branching available to 

2 o 8 
1/20/67 
-6-
foreign banks and the inability of domestic banks to do likewise. 
On 
the other hand, that was only a nominal problem at the present time, and 
so long as this state of affairs continued he was of the view that it 
might be better to live with the status quo. He was inclined to favor 
Governor Robertson's suggestion for control of initial entry from the 
foreign policy standpoint, but he was concerned about extending insurance 
to deposits in U.S. branches of foreign banks. It would be difficult to 
know what funds were being insured because of the ease with which funds 
could be transferred. 
Governor Maisel commented that he was inclined to feel a proper 
posture on the question might be to favor continuation of the present 
dual banking structure with respect to the U.S. operations of foreign 
banking institutions. 
If on foreign policy grounds, however, something 
additional was felt to be needed, there could be a law to provide that 
entry into the U.S., either through a branch or subsidiary, would be 
regulated at the Federal level. If that was done, he felt consideration 
should be given to an exemption under the Bank Holding Company Act, par-
ticularly from the "Douglas amendment" that prohibits expansion of bank 
holding companies across State lines in the absence of affirmative 
Permissive legislation in the State into which the expansion is contem-
plated. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the opinion that passage of legislation 
such as S. 3765 would be desirable on foreign policy grounds, and he hoped 

2n9 
1/20/67 
-7-
the Board would adopt a positive attitude toward such legislation for that 
reason. Other supporting arguments that had been put forward seemed less 
well founded or essentially irrelevant. 
The basic issue was, to his mind, 
the question of uniformity of supervision and regulation over activities 
of foreign banks in the U.S. By this he did not mean that foreign banks 
should not continue to have a choice between national and State charters 
for subsidiaries; rather, the principal virtue would be that standards 
such as a reasonable degree of reciprocity of privileges on the part of 
foreign governments could be laid down as conditions precedent to entry. 
He felt the Federal regulatory authority should be vested in the Board. 
The other issues were secondary, in Governor Brimmer's view, and 
could be resolved if there was agreement on the basic issue. On the ques-
tion of deposit insurance, he agreed that the principal problem arose with 
respect to branch operations of foreign banks. In this connection, he 
commented that the Lebanese Intrabank that recently failed had conducted 
operations in New York and in Switzerland, and Swiss law apparently gave 
its depositors more protection than the New York State law. If Federal 
deposit insurance was not feasible, perhaps something comparable, such as 
a reserve of assets, could be required. 
In any event, for purposes of 
flexibility the possibility of deposit insurance should not be ruled out 
of consideration at this time; instead, the question should be left open 
for further study. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the question should be kept open, 
at least pending receipt of views of the Federal Deposit Insurance 

2 1 0 
1/20/67 
-10-
Corporation. He added that such opinions as he might express at the 
meeting of the Coordinating Committee on the whole issue of the proposed 
legislation would clearly be tentative views, not binding upon the Board. 
Federal chartering of mutual savings banks. Governor Robertson 
next turned to a discussion of legislation that had been introduced to 
provide for the Federal chartering of mutual savings banks. In this 
connection, there had been distributed a memorandum dated January 17, 
1967, from M r . Hackley that dealt in part with this subject, wherein it 
was pointed out that in letters to the Senate and House Banking and Cur-
rency Committees dated January 25 and February 21, 1966, respectively, 
the Board had taken the position that it had no objection in principle 
to such legislation. However, the following views were advanced: 
(1) 
branching powers of Federally-chartered savings banks should be no broader 
than those applicable to other banks; (2) the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
should be authorized to limit interest rates paid by such banks; and (3) 
mergers involving insured mutual savings banks should be subject to the 
same standards as those applicable to insured commercial banks. 
The 
question with respect to regulation of interest rates had now been met 
by the temporary grant of such authority by Public Law 89-597, enacted 
on September 21, 1966. 
Governor Robertson commented that he had not yet had an opportu-
nity to study the most recently introduced bill (H.R. 15) and did not 
propose to take a position on it at today's Coordinating Committee meeting. 
He had been told that the provisions were about the same as those contained 

211 
1/20/67 
-10-
in the previous bill. However, he understood that the enforcement pro-
visions had been eliminated because of the cease and desist powers given 
to the Home Loan Bank Board by the Financial Institutions Supervisory 
Act of 1966, signed by the President on October 16, 1966. 
Continuing, Governor Robertson noted that the proposed legisla-
tion would broaden the lending powers heretofore available to mutual 
savings banks. While those provisions might appear unobjectionable in 
themselves, he questioned the desirability of a proliferation of banking 
systems. Also, particularly if the powers of the mutuals were broadened, 
consideration should be given to the requirements concerning such matters 
as reserves, mergers, and taxation so that the mutuals would not enjoy a 
competitive advantage over commercial banks. It appeared to him that 
the soundest approach would be to set up a commission similar to the 
Pujo Commission to review the whole financial structure of the country. 
In the absence of such a study, however, someone other than the Federal 
Reserve should have the job of showing whether the proposed legislation 
was essential or not. 
In further discussion Governor Maisel expressed support for the 
proposed legislation, stating that mutual savings banks were a useful 
part of the financial structure and that their establishment in more 
States would be helpful. 
Governor Brimmer agreed, adding that the regulatory provisions 
applicable to the Federally-chartered savings banks should provide enough 
flexibility to permit effective competition. 

212 
1/20/67 
-10-
Extension of interest rate legislation. A third topic on the 
agenda for discussion at the Coordinating Committee meeting was consid-
eration of extending the broad temporary authority given under Public 
Law 89-597 to the Federal agencies charged with supervision of financial 
institutions to regulate interest rates on deposit-type funds. In this 
connection, Mr. Hackley's January 17 memorandum commented as follows: 
The interest rate provisions of the temporary legis-
lation approved September 21, 1966, are identical with 
legislation proposed by the Board in a letter to Senator 
Robertson dated August 2, 1966, except that the Board of 
course urged that the legislation be enacted on a perma-
nent basis. In testifying on the legislation last fall, 
Governor Robertson on behalf of the Board objected to the 
provision limiting the effectiveness of the legislation 
to a one-year period. 
Governor Robertson stated that while he regarded the legislation 
as adequate and favored making it permanent, he felt it wise to accumu-
late as much experience as possible under the legislation before making 
a recommendation, in order to be able to make the strongest supporting 
case. Also, he believed it would be preferable that the recommendation 
on the legislation come from the regulatory agencies. 
Other members of the Board either expressed agreement with the 
last statement or indicated that they had no strong feeling. 
M r . Brill observed that he understood the forthcoming report of 
the Council of Economic Advisers might contain a recommendation that the 
legislation be extended for a temporary period only, and during a dis-
cussion of the reasoning apparently underlying such a recommendation 
Governor Robertson pointed out that the language of the present law was 

213 
1/20/67 
-10-
permissive rather than mandatory, which meant that the authority to fix 
rate ceilings could be placed on a standby basis if conditions warranted. 
Some members of the Board then raised the question why, if the 
present legislation was considered satisfactory, a recommendation that 
it be made permanent should not go forward promptly. 
Governor Robertson said he would have no particular objection. 
However, up to now at least, the view of the other supervisory agencies 
had been that experience should be gained in order that the agencies 
would be able to answer as effectively as possible the questions likely 
to be asked at Congressional hearings. 
Governor Robertson then said that he would report back to the 
Board in the light of developments at the meeting of the Coordinating 
Committee. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Sherman and Leavitt then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Service to the public. Governor Shepardson proposed that respon-
sibility for coordinating the System's participation in the President's 
program to improve the quality of service to the public be turned over 
to Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board, who would be responsible for 
maintaining liaison with the general Governmental program and ordinarily 
would attend interagency meetings as the Board's representative. 
The assignment was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that Governor Shepardson would continue to exercise general supervision 
°f the System's participation in the program. 

214 
1/20/67 
-10-
In this connection it was suggested that the quarterly reports 
to the Civil Service Commission concerning the program be circulated to 
the members of the Board for their information. 
Bank of Pine Apple. At the request of Governor Brimmer, Governor 
Robertson reported on the most recent developments in the matter of the 
Bank of Pine Apple, Pine Apple, Alabama, and gave assurance that the 
problem was continuing to receive the close attention of the Federal 
Reserve. 
Dinner for Federal Advisory Council. The Board authorized pay- -
ment of the cost of a dinner at the Federal Reserve Building on Monday, 
February 20, 1967, for the members of the Federal Advisory Council, with 
the understanding that the dinner would be attended by the members of 
the Board and a few members of the Board's staff. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Marguerite Hudgins as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,664, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Bette Robinson as Statistical Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, for a period of approximately 30 days, with basic annual salary 
a
t the rate of $6,461, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Ethel M . H. Hummel as Statistical Assistant, Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,507, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

2 1 5 
1/20/67 
-10-
Reemployment following maternity leave 
Linda Kay Goukler, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,936, effective January 30, 1967. 
Transfers 
Barbara Ann Kemp, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
of Research and Statistics to the position of Stenographer in the Office 
of the Controller, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
$4,776, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Linda Mae Maney, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Division 
of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in the Divi-
sion of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $4,269, effective January 16, 1967. 

216 
•1 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
1/20/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 20, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by The First Pennsylvania 
Banking and Trust Company, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, of 
a branch at 4643-45 Frankford Avenue, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E . Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

217 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
1/20/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 20, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by United California 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, of a branch in the vicinity 
of the intersection of Lakewood and Del Amo Boulevards, 
Lakewood, California, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E . Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

218 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/20/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O £ N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 20, 1967 
The Honorable K. A . Randall, Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C . 
20429 
Dear Mr. Randall: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 
concerning the application of Bank of Silvis, Silvis, 
for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The bank has been on the Board of Governors' problem 
bank list since the 1964 examination. The basis for its problem 
status at this time is the remaining volume of loans, classified 
substandard and doubtful, predicated directly and indirectly on 
the financial responsibility of two small and fairly new 
insurance companies. The bank has generally been cooperative in 
securing reductions in these loans in accordance with the request 
of examiners. 
There have been no other corrective programs urged upon 
the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consum-
mated, and there are no programs that the Board would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in 
the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System; 
nevertheless, you may wish to consider the information in the 
above paragraph in reviewing this application. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E . Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
5, 1967, 
Illinois, 
from 

219 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/20/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N O t N C I 
TO T H C 
B O A R D 
January 20, 1967. 
Chase International 
Investment Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 22, 1966, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
Purchase and hold either directly or through your wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Arcturus Investment and Development, Limited, Montreal, 
Canada, approximately 850 shares of the capital stock of Corporacion 
Financiera, Bogota, Colombia, at a cost of approximately US$650,000 
Provided such stock is acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The foregoing consent is being given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined with 
other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation, The Chase 
Manhattan Bank (National Association), and Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, will not cause the total of such loans and 
investments to exceed the guidelines established under the voluntary 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and that due considera-
tion is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

220 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F THE 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/20/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADORES* OrriCIAl C O R R C a P O N O C N C C 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 20t 1967. 
The Company for Investing Abroad, 
Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 8, 1966, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold 101,500 preference shares of United Nylon 
Corporation, Taiwan, at a cost of approximately US$350,175, 
provided such stock is acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves 
the purchase and holding of such shares in excess of 10 per 
cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved, combined with 
other foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and Fidelity-
Philadelphia Trust Company, will not cause the total of such 
loans and investments to exceed the guidelines established under 
the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in effect and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
