67) 
Minutes for 
July 11, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertso 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, July 11, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank, 
1 
Flint, Michigan, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Grand Blanc and urging that 
action be taken to strengthen the bank's 
capital position. 

2758 
7/11/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to The Fidelity International Corpora- 
2 
tion, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting 
consent to acquire common shares of United 
Nylon Corporation, Taiwan, at a cost of 
approximately $250,000, thus amending the 
Board's consent of January 20, 1967, to 
acquire preference shares at a cost of 
approximately $350,175. 
Messrs. Sammons, Leavitt, Egertson, and Poundstone then with-
drew from the meeting. 
Cincinnati Branch Building. There had been circulated a memo-
randum from Mr. Farrell dated June 29, 1967, in which reference was 
made to a letter dated June 22, 1967, from the Cashier of the Cincinnati 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, submitting informally 
photographs showing the original and revised designs for the proposed 
new Branch building. The letter indicated that the revised design had 
been approved by the directors of the Cincinnati Branch. The memorandum 
stated that it would be considered by the directors of the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank on July 13, 1967. 
Mr. Witherell, the Board's Consulting Architect, had reviewed 
the revised design and stated that "While the revised design provides 
a stronger visual impact than the original, I feel that it lacks the 
simplicity which characterizes Federal Reserve Banks. There appears 
to be no functional reason for the heavy projecting treatment of the 
upper two floors in contrast to the simple treatment of the two floors 

42 « > j 
7/11/67 
-3-
below. A unified treatment of the four fenestrated stories would seem 
more logical and might result in a less complicated design. I suggest 
that a study be made which combines the strength of the revised design 
and the simplicity of the original." 
In discussion Mr. Farrell noted that indications were that the 
reaction of the Cleveland Board of Directors would be favorable to the 
revised design. The question to be decided by the Board of Governors 
was whether it also approved the revised design. If the Board was not 
inclined to approve the revised design, there was then the further ques-
tion whether objections were strong enough to warrant overruling the 
Reserve Bank and Branch directors. 
The views of the members of the Board were then expressed. It 
developed that, as between the original and revised designs, there was 
a unanimous preference for the original, but it was the consensus that 
the issue involved would not warrant overruling a decision of the 
Cleveland Bank's Board of Directors if it strongly favored the revised 
design. However, there was agreement with Governor Maisel's suggestion 
that Mr. Witherell's comments be sent promptly to the Cleveland Bank so 
that the Bank would have an opportunity to consider them prior to the 
meeting of the directors on July 13. 
Open Market Committee policy record. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated July 7, 1967, submitting drafts of 
entries for the record of policy actions of the Federal Open Market 

2758 
7/11/67 
-4-
Committee covering the meetings of May 2 and May 23, 1967, as revised 
to take account of comments received following distribution of pre-
liminary draft entries for the respective meetings. There had also 
been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Holland dated July 10, 1967, 
relating to suggestions of Governors Robertson and Maisel for addi-
tional changes in the May 23 entry. The entries, revised to reflect 
the additional changes suggested by Governors Robertson and Maisel, 
would be in a form for approval by the Board for inclusion in the 
Board's Annual Report for 1967 if the Board was prepared at this time 
to approve the entries for that purpose. If approved, the entries 
would then be distributed to the members of the Open Market Committee 
and other Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for information but with 
an indication of the date by which any further comments should be sub-
mitted. Under the procedure agreed upon in June, the entries would be 
released to the press about August 2 and August 23 and published in the 
Le;; > o 
I iy 
\o Haax. '•).•:. ii 
uic ' 
August and September Federal Reserve Bulletins, respectively. 
i •• h : o 
f. . h to 
. >C-iiU:U 
- 1 ;:.c» c-J , 
After brief discussion during which certain editorial changes 
were agreed upon, the entries for the May 2 and May 23 meetings were 
approved unanimously for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report, and 
with the understanding that they would be released to the press at the 
approximate times indicated in August, pursuant to the procedure agreed 
upon in June. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2759 
7/11/67 
-5-
Secretary's Notes: Acting in the absence 
of Governor Robertson, Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the appointment of Elizabeth Crawford as 
Stenographer in the Division of Personnel 
Administration, with basic annual salary 
at the rate of $4,776, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
On July 11, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to Central Bank, Grand Rapids, Michigan, 
3 
approving an extension of time within which to 
establish a branch at 161 Ottawa Avenue, N. W. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to Community Bank, Steelville, Missouri, 
4 
approving an investment in bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
5 
California, approving an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Concord, 
Contra Costa County. 

27m 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
7/11/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O t N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 11, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens Commercial & 
Savings Bank, 
Flint, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Citizens Commercial & 
Savings Bank, Flint, Michigan, of a branch at 12741 South 
Saginaw Road, Grand Blanc, Michigan, provided the branch 
is established within one year from the date of this letter. 
In order that the growth of your bank will con-
tinue on a sound basis, the Board again urges that action 
be taken in the near future to strengthen the bank's capital 
position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

27H1 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/11/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C a R R E 3 P a N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 11, 1967. 
The Fidelity International Corporation, 
123 South Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19109 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with your letter of June 20, 1967, addressed 
to Mr. Joseph M. Case, Assistant Vice President, Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia, the Board amends its consent of January 20, 1967, 
regarding the United Nylon Corporation, Taiwan, and grants consent 
for your Corporation to purchase and hold 100,000 common shares of 
United Nylon Corporation at a cost of approximately US$250,000 
provided such stock is acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The foregoing amended consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved combined with other 
loans and investments of your Corporation and The Fidelity Bank will 
not cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
lines established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

; 
' 2782 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
ITEM NO. 3 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
7 / 1 1 / 6 7 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60600 
(312) HA 7-2320 
July 11, 1967 
Mr. Robert H. Becker 
Vice President 
Central Bank 
65 Monroe Avenue 
Grand Rapids, Michigan ^9pC2 
Boar lir. Becker: 
Cn behalf of the B^ard of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this' Bank has approved an extension of 
ninety days from August 22, 1967, of the tine in which your 
"ban!; nay establish a branch at lol Ottawa Avenue, II, W., 
Grand lipids, Michigan. 
Very truly yours, 
Iceland Boss 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
c c - Mr. Msrritt Sherman -
S
.
^
f
1 
Institutions Bureau 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ST. LOUIS 
P. O, BOX 442 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 
63166 
27 63 
Item No. 1 
7/11/67 
July 11, 3.967 
Board of Directors 
Conwunity Bank 
Steelville, Missouri 
Gentlemen: 
Oil behalf of the Uoar^'of Governors, actingubider 
delegated authority, this Iknik/ha^api^ovV:d, under the pro-
visions of Section 24A of the Federal AesArve Act, an addi-
tional investment in bank px^niiSs^s b/ yoyt bank of $32,000 
for the purpose of renovatin^reWrbislung, altering and 
expanding the present banking q W t e * ^ . 
It is understood 
that you also plan 
appr^iniiyely $13,000 for addi-
tional furniture aim fixtufc^s and th<it ail fixed assets will 
be annually depr^iaj^id\t 
iuaximu\ryies permitted for 
Federal Income /ax/purposed. 
Very truly yours, 
OPSL 
0. C. Wyrick 
Vice President 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA 
G4120 
July 11, 1967 
Item No. 1 
7/11/67 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
On behalf of the Board of Governor^ of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting urVuer delected authority, 
this Bank hes approved-fin extension tcytfuly 19, 1963, of 
the time within 
yourNbank ciay^stabiish a branch 
office in the vicinity of tin* intersection of Clayton and 
Bailey Roads, Concord, Contra\Costa Canity, California. 
^ 
This Extension is granted in connection with 
tb£ request contained in a letter dated July 3, 1967, 
:eceived from Patricia E B a n k i n g Services Officer. 
Very truly yours. 
feigned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
