Minutes for January 17 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
i 
•; f " 
i 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the tninutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Roberts 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

153 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Freedman, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Amendments to Loss Sharing Agreement (Items 1 and 2). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated January 8, 1968, from Messrs. 
Daniels and Hackley with respect to proposed amendments to sections 1, 
3, and 7 of the Loss Sharing Agreement of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The amendments, recommended by the Insurance Committee and approved by 
the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks on December 11, 
1967, would (1) change the definition of "securities" to include U. S. 
Treasury securities in book-entry form, (2) clarify language relating 
to losses covered, and (3) give the Insurance Committee discretion to 
extend to $10 million in special circumstances any lower limits speci-
fied on shipments of currency to or from commercial banks. It was 

1/17/68 
-2-
noted that the limits were now $5 million on outgoing shipments and 
$2 million on incoming shipments. 
The amendment relating to the definition of "securities" was 
necessitated by the adoption by the Federal Reserve Banks, as fiscal 
agents of the United States, of procedures to give effect to issuance 
of book-entry Treasury securities deposited in certain collateral and 
safekeeping accounts. The need for the other two amendments developed 
as a result of a request by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
for coverage under the Loss Sharing Agreement of currency shipments to 
and from a commercial bank in Hawaii up to a limit of $10 million. 
These shipments were being made by armored car (ground and air courier) 
service, for which the carrier provided insurance up to $10 million. 
Coverage under the Loss Sharing Agreement was secondary. 
Under the terms of the Agreement, the approval of the Board was 
required before the proposed amendments could become effective. Attached 
to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
that would indicate Board approval of the revised Loss Sharing Agree-
ment and state that when executed counterparts had been received from 
all Federal Reserve Banks the Board would advise the Banks of the effec-
tive date of the revised Agreement. 
At today's meeting Mr. Daniels outlined the purpose and develop-
ment of the Loss Sharing Agreement, following which he and Mr. Hackley 
responded to a number of questions posed by members of the Board 

1/17/68 
-3-
concerning the proposed amendments. Questions also were raised regard-
ing (1) whether it was necessary for the Federal Reserve Banks to pur-
chase insurance indirectly through their contracts with armored car 
companies for transportation of money and securities, and (2) whether 
the Reserve Banks should assume the function of supplying currency and 
coin to U. S. possessions (e.g., the Virgin Islands) and to the Common-
wealth of Puerto Rico. A consensus emerged that these questions 
warranted exploration by appropriate committees of the Presidents' 
Conference. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the proposed letter to 
the Federal Reserve Banks relating to the Loss Sharing Agreement, and 
to the transmittal of a letter to the Chairman of the Conference of 
Presidents that would refer to the Conference for consideration the 
two questions referred to above. Copies of the letters subsequently 
transmitted are attached as Items 1 and 2, respectively. 
Survey of mortgage credit commitments (Item No. 3). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Brill dated January 16, 1968, 
in which it was proposed that a survey be undertaken by the Federal 
Reserve Banks shortly after February 7 to ascertain current and pro-
spective mortgage commitment volume at leading representative commer-
cial banks, mortgage companies, savings banks, and life insurance 
companies. In an attached draft of letter were set forth the questions 
that would be asked of the parties interviewed. The questions repre-
sented a condensation of those tested in surveys made in February and 

1 ^ ^ 
x o o 
1/17/68 
-4-
September of last year. They paralleled for the most part questions 
to be used in connection with a survey to be made by the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board with respect to savings and loan associations. 
•k-) • 
Following discussion, the proposed survey was authorized. 
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the letter sent to the Reserve 
Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Theodore Walter as Special Assistant, Division of Bank Operations, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $17,425, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Alton C. James, Statistical Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, from $6,309 to $6,752 per annum, effective January 28, 1968. 
Kenneth Aaronson, Computer Operator (Trainee), Division of Data 
Processing, from $5,327 to $5,751 per annum, with a change in title 
to Computer Operator, effective February 11, 1968. 
Patricia Connolly, Production Control Clerk (Trainee), Division 
of Data Processing, from $5,493 to $5,937 per annum, with a change in 
title to Production Control Clerk, effective February 11, 1968. 
Charles E. Ficklin, Jr., Computer Operator (Trainee), Division of 
Data Processing, from $5,327 to $5,751 per annum, with a change in title 
to Computer Operator, effective February 25, 1968. 
Transfer 
Gloria Jean Windsor, from the position of Secretary in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Secretary in the 
Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual salary at 
the rate of $5,565, effective upon assuming her new duties. 

1/17/68 
-5-
On January 17, 1968, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached 
under the item number indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Letter to Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, 
Providence, Rhode Island, approving an exten-
sion of time within which to establish a branch 
at the U. S. Naval Base, Newport. 
Item No, 
Secretary 
.ISiaUi-'Ji.C:? 
:: 
or : 
5 ; ' - : , " ! < o r .. -J , - . 
Vrofc. t'icsit.'v or. n^ufcec i i 
be r0 Lj<: 1 Los 3 *>t.> 
• ' • 
O : I*.. 
' 
:.;• 
, 
1 lv>i lv iirwr zh'j „ -";c < 
; •:..->» i -j 
< w ' 
. -j; - 
'i y v •<• r 
„ 
c^.tcue 
U 
;,!> 
o • c J.'-ai, 
IteddrVfc ll-JiVl-i , di-- 
i 
1. : • i 7 
' • I 
.. J 
J 
J . ,; A 
ill 
I ,* 
• ; _ I 

158 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
1/17/68 
'-f*4L 
RE**. 
a d d r e s s 
o f f i c i a l 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 17, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed are two copies of the Loss Sharing Agreement 
revised to give effect to the amendments proposed by the 
Insurance Committee of the Federal Reserve Banks in its report 
dated November 20, 1967, and approved by the Conference of 
Presidents on December 11, 1967. 
The revised Loss Sharing Agreement also contains the 
amendments to Section 7 thereof made by the separately printed 
Amendment, effective January 1, 1965. 
The Board of Governors has approved the Agreement as 
revised. After the enclosed copies of the revised Agreement 
have been executed by your Bank, one of the duly executed 
counterpart originals should be forwarded to the Board. When 
executed counterparts have been received from all Federal 
Reserve Banks, the Board will notify your Bank by telegram, 
and as provided in Section 17 the revised Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of such notice. 
Very truly yours, 
(/I 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

153 
B C 3 A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 2 
• f 
T H E 
1 / 1 7 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P Q N O C N C I 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 26, 1968 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 
94120. 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
During the consideration by the Board of the proposed 
Amendments to the Loss Sharing Agreement, which were approved 
by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on December 11, 
1967, a question was raised regarding the extent to which the 
Federal Reserve Banks were purchasing insurance indirectly 
through their contracts with armored car companies for trans-
portation of money and securities. 
It was noted that the principal reason behind the 
adoption of the Loss Sharing Agreement was the belief that the 
Federal Reserve System was large enough to assume its own risks 
of loss and that the purchase of insurance was largely unjusti-
fied. The Board suggested that the matter be studied in order 
to determine whether it might not be feasible to obtain contracts 
from armored car companies under which the Reserve Banks would 
assume the risk of all or major losses on money shipments, with 
appropriate reduction in the cost of armored car services. 
" The Board also suggested that the method by which 
currency and coin are presently supplied to possessions of the 
United States (e.g., the Virgin Islands) and to the Commonwealth 
of Puerto Rico be examined with a view to considering the possi-
bility of having this function assumed by the Reserve Banks. 
The Board would appreciate it, therefore, if you will 
assign these subjects to the appropriate committees of the 
Pre sidents1 Conference for study and report. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

ISO 
Ojop^. 
HreS^.' 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 17, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board would appreciate having a capsule report of your 
impressions concerning the current situation and near-term outlook in 
the residential mortgage market in your District, to be forwarded to 
reach the Board not later than Wednesday, February 21. 
In order to parallel a similar Federal Home Loan Bank survey 
Proposed for savings and loan associations, your report should reflect 
Informal interviews with some (perhaps 15 to 25) representative bank 
and nonbank lenders in your District other than savings and loan asso-
ciations--!.e. , commercial banks, mutual savings banks, life insurance 
companies, and mortgage companies. These interviews should elicit 
responses to the following questions which, in the interest of easing 
the burden of interviewing and response, are abbreviated versions of 
those asked in last September's survey. Interviews may be conducted 
at any time after February 6, so long as summaries of the findings reach 
the Board by no later than February 21. 
Several of the questions ask the respondent to compare present, 
and prospective conditions with "normal" conditions. Recognizing that 
this terra involves a difficult and ambiguous concept, for the purposes 
°f this survey the word "normal" should apply (as in last September's 
survey) to average conditions during the year 1965, if any respondents 
should inquire specifically about the term. 
The questions to be asked are as follows: 
1. (For all respondents.) How would you best characterize 
your present volume of new commitments on residential (home and 
raulti-family) mortgage loans? 

(a) substantially above normal for this time of year; 
(b) moderately above normal for this time of year; (c) about 
normal for this time of year; (d) moderately below normal for 
this time of year; (e) substantially below normal for this 
time of year. 
2. (For commercial banks and savings banks.) What do 
you expect your net savings inflow (i.e., new savings minus 
withdrawals) to be over the next three months? 
(a) substantially above normal for the period ahead; 
(b) moderately above normal for the period ahead; (c) about 
normal for the period ahead; (d) moderately below normal for 
the period ahead; (e) substantially below normal for the 
period ahead. 
3. (For life insurance companies.) What do you expect 
your cash flow (adjusted for expected net changes in policy 
loans) will be over the next three months? 
(a) substantially above normal for the period ahead; 
(b) moderately above normal for the period ahead; (c) about 
normal for the period ahead; (d) moderately below normal for 
the period ahead; (e) substantially below normal for the period 
ahead. 
4. (For all respondents.) Taking into account your 
expectations about the availability of funds, what do you 
expect your volume of new residential (home and multi-family) 
mortgage loan commitments will be over the next three months? 
(a) substantially above normal for the period ahead; 
(b) moderately above normal for the period ahead; (c) about 
normal for the period ahead; (d) moderately below normal for 
the period ahead; (e) substantially below normal for the period 
ahead. 
5. (For all respondents.) How would you evaluate the 
present demand by prospective home buyers and home builders 
for mortgage loans at current interest rates and terms? 
(a) demand substantially exceeds mortgage funds avail-
able; (b) demand moderately exceeds mortgage funds available; 

-O/o 
-3-
(c) demand is just about in balance with mortgage funds avail-
able; (d) demand falls moderately short of mortgage funds 
available; (e) demand falls substantially short of mortgage 
funds available. 
After surveying all respondents, please sumarize your impres-
sions of typical District conditions in brief narrative form, indicating 
any marked differences among types of lenders or properties and any 
other unusual features of interest. Also, please take each question in 
turn and indicate, where appropriate, the total number of respondents 
of each type that chose each of the various multiple-choice answers. 
The reports for all Districts will be tabulated and summarized by the 
Board's staff, along with the findings of the Federal Home Loan Banks, 
for di stribution in the Green Book of February 28. (For your reference 
Purposes, the survey made last September was summarized in the Green 
Book Supplement of September 29.) Heads of Research will meet briefly 
in Washington following the February 6 Federal Open Market Committee 
meeting to discuss survey contents and procedures. Survey replies 
should be sent to the Secretary's Office; meanwhile, questions regarding 
the survey should be addressed to Mr. Partee. 
Very truly yours, 
^ Z c J ^ - s t z 
C P 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

163 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
BANK OF 
BOSTON 
30 PEARL STREET 
Item No. 1 
1/17/68 
.Vt) 
C. Culvtr Tovli, Secretar 
Rhode Island Hospital Trust cfspsny 
IS Utitalnitir Street 
Providence, Rhode Island 
January 17. 1968 
Daar Mr. Tovle: 
Reference is made to your letter of January 10, 1968 in which 
you request an extension of tias for the eetabllshnsnt of a branch office 
•t the 0. S. Maval Base, Hevport^^RtRRfe^Island. 
Your requeat has beah considered >snd the Board of Oovernore of 
the Federal Reserve Systets ha* approved a six-®onth extension of tiae 
February 9, 1968 in vhlc^ the branch office nay be established. 
Very truly yours, 
v 
Lee J. Aubrey 
7 — 
Assistant flee Freaident 
Pef 
Note: The Reserve Bank advised the trust company 
on January 22 that the extension of time 
was approved by the Reserve Bank under 
delegated authority. 
