Minutes for 
May 26, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

1630 
r. 
Hill 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 26, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:35 p.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hubert White of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Miss Greene and Messrs. Burton and Kline of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 

5/26/70 
-2-
Federal Reserve offices in Florida. 
On the basis of a recently 
completed study of the need for additional Federal Reserve offices in 
Florida, the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta requested authorization to 
(1) retain the Jacksonville Branch; (2) open an additional branch in 
Miami to serve the banks in southern Florida, with interim installation 
of check collection and currency and coin service facilities; and (3) 
establish a currency and coin facility in the Tampa Bay area to serve 
the needs of central Florida. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum 
dated April 22, 1970, recommended that the Board agree in principle to 
the establishment of a cash and check facility in the Miami area, but 
suggested that additional information was required to establish the need 
for a full branch at Miami and a facility in the Tampa Bay area. 
The Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Build-
ing Plans met with President Kimbrel of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta on May 15 and in a memorandum of May 18 recommended that the 
Board agree in principle to the Bank's first two proposals but not approve 
the establishment of a facility in the Tampa Bay area, since the need 
for such a facility was not sufficiently clear. 
Governor Mitchell began today's discussion by citing figures 
from a compilation that was handed to members of the Board showing, for 
standard metropolitan statistical areas with population of over 250,000, 
the number of banks, their total deposits, reserve city status, and 

maz 
5/26/10 
-3-
distance to the servicing Federal Reserve office. 
In the continental 
United States, only two of the areas listed were more remote from their 
Federal Reserve offices than Miami, which was 330 miles from the Jack-
sonville Branch. 
The tabulation also listed cities that had been the 
subject of previous efforts to obtain a Federal Reserve office. 
A draft of press release was then distributed that would state 
that the Board had authorized the establishment of a check collection 
and currency and coin depot at Miami and that it had approved in prin-
ciple a plan by the Atlanta Reserve Bank to establish a branch at Miami 
but had fixed no time schedule, since future construction of branch bank 
buildings would require authorization from Congress increasing the 
$60 million limit on investments in Federal Reserve branch buildings. 
Mr. Cardon noted that this was not an auspicious time to request 
an increase in the $60 million limitation, and that announcement of 
approval of the establishment of a branch in Miami might reactivate cer-
tain earlier campaigns for additional branches in other cities. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the wording of the 
draft press release did not accurately reflect the view of the Board's 
Committee. 
As he understood it, the Committee had concluded that the 
Board should at this time approve the eventual establishment of a branch 
in Miami. 
Therefore, he favored removal of the words "in principle". 
Governor Robertson suggested that only a currency and check 
facility be approved at this time, on the theory that the actual operation 

5/26/70 
-4-
of the facility would in due course demonstrate the need, or lack of it, 
for a full branch. 
Governor Brimmer then commented on attitudes in the Miami area, 
noting in particular that First National Bank of Miami, which had been 
acting as a clearing bank, now proposed to charge a fee for such services 
and that the Miami Chamber of Commerce had expressed itself in favor of 
a Federal Reserve branch in Miami. 
Governor Brimmer also reported a 
view by Atlanta Reserve Bank officials that Miami area bankers would con-
strue the providing of a facility rather than a branch as second-class 
treatment, and difficult bank relations problems would be likely to ensue. 
He cited information from a letter just received from President Kimbrel 
summarizing the major points in favor of a full branch and the estimated 
comparative operating costs of a branch and a facility, along with related 
reductions in the cost of operating the Jacksonville Branch. 
It was 
understood that, as requested by Governor Brimmer, the letter would be 
placed in the record of today's meeting. 
Further discussion emphasized that it would be undesirable to imply 
that the need for action by Congress was the immediate obstacle to estab-
lishment of a Miami branch. 
Even if the branch were approved, the devel-
opment of plans would take some time. 
Comments were made on the possibility 
of leasing branch quarters, or otherwise operating the office without con-
structing a building, and it was noted that a branch initially might not 
offer all of the usual services. 

1634 
5/26/70 
-5-
The possibility of discussing the proposed action with the Chair-
men of the Banking and Currency Committees and with members of the Con-
gress from Florida was also mentioned. 
However, Mr. Cardon recommended 
against that procedure, and the reasons he gave were found persuasive. 
A general view developed in favor of announcing authorization 
for the establishment of a check and currency facility, and for adopting 
a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that the announcement indicate approval 
of a proposal by the Atlanta Reserve Bank to plan the establishment of 
a branch in Miami, it being understood that some time would be required 
for the development of such plans. 
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was given 
to a press statement in the form attached as Item No. 1, with the under-
standing that its release would be coordinated with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta. A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Atlanta 
Bank is attached as Item No. 2, and a copy of the letter from President 
Kimbrel that had been referred to by Governor Brimmer is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Report on competitive factors. 
Unanimous approval was given 
to a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
The Exchange Bank and Trust Company, Franklin, Pennsylvania, with The 
Pennsylvania Bank and Trust Company, Titusville, Pennsylvania. 
The con-
clusion read as follows: 

1635 
5/26/70 
-6-
There is little existing competition between The Exchange 
Bank and Trust Company, Franklin, and The Pennsylvania Bank 
and Trust Company, Titusville, although there is some potential 
for increased competition through de novo branching. 
The over-
all competitive effect of the proposed merger would be slightly 
adverse. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. 
On May 6, 1970, the Board denied 
the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of First West Towne National Bank of 
Madison, Madison, Wisconsin, a proposed new bank. 
It was agreed, in 
view of the 3-2 vote, that a request for reconsideration might appropri-
ately be made by a member of the Board to permit all Board members to 
participate. 
Such a motion was subsequently made by Governor Robertson 
and approved. 
Governor Mitchell now displayed maps and photographs relating 
to the locations of the banking offices in the area. 
Reference to these 
documents, he said, had not changed his view that the application should 
be approved. 
The point at issue was whether a well-established banking 
organization should be permitted to establish a subsidiary in this devel-
oping area, or whether the site should be reserved for another bank. 
In his view, the prospective growth of the area would support not only 
the bank now proposed but other entrants. 
Governor Daane supported the application for the reasons Governor 
Mitchell had outlined and also on the grounds of convenience and needs. 
He did not think it proper to deny the application simply against the 

5/26/70 
-7-
possibility that another new bank would be chartered for the location 
when there were no charters pending, although a new bank under different 
auspices might have been preferable in the first instance. 
Governor Maisel was persuaded by the adverse positions taken 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and by the State Commissioner of 
Banking. 
In his view, the Bank Holding Company Act was directed toward 
giving States a strong voice on what kind of banking structure they 
wanted. 
The State Commissioner had referred to the fact that here the 
applicant controlled 39 per cent of deposits in the Madison area, and 
had indicated an expectation that other applicants would seek entry. 
The Commissioner preferred the entry of a different new bank both for 
improvement of competition and for reduction of concentration. 
Governor Brimmer shared Governor Maisel's view. 
He recalled 
that the Board had in 1968 denied an application by this same holding 
company in somewhat similar circumstances, and it also seemed to him 
that in this instance the degree of market concentration was already high 
enough to justify denial. 
It appeared to Governor Sherrill that the principal reason for 
denial was the hope that another organization would seek entry, yet the 
Madison area already had a large number of banks. 
The competition seemed 
quite viable. 
It had been contended that there were no needs now unserved 
however, that was a point of judgment, and he thought it was a marginal 
decision. 

1 6 3 7 
5/26/70 
-8-
Governor Robertson thought it was obvious here that a large 
organization was trying to pre-empt an attractive site. 
He agreed 
with the analyses by the Commissioner of Banking and the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago. 
Chairman Burns, having reviewed the conflicting recommendations, 
expressed himself in favor of the application. 
The application was thereupon approved, Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that an order and 
statement reflecting this decision would be prepared for the Board's con-
sideration and that a dissenting statement also would be prepared. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon. 
Officer appointments. 
On recommendation by Governor Sherrill, 
the Board approved the appointment of Levon Garabedian as Assistant 
Director of the Division of Research and Statistics effective July 1, 
1970, with salary at the rate of $21,500 per annum. 
The Board also approved the appointment of John T. McClintock as 
Assistant Director of the Division of Supervision and Regulation effec-
tive June 1, 1970, with salary at the rate of $28,100 per annum. 
Governor Sherrill noted that it was planned to transfer Tynan 
Smith from his position as Adviser in the Division of Research and Statis-
tics to the position of Assistant Director in the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation effective July 1, 1970, in view of the resignation of 

L T > 3 8 
5/26/70 
-9-
Milton W . Schober as Assistant Director of the latter Division effective 
at the end of this month. 
President's Commission. 
M r . Holland reported information he 
had received concerning the contemplated staff organization of the Presi-
dent's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation and his under-
standing of what might be requested in terms of assistance from the Board's 
staff. 
He indicated that several Board staff papers were available con-
taining information or analyses that might be helpful to the staff of 
the Commission and that the contents apparently would not preclude their 
being furnished for that purpose. 
Chairman Burns commented that in light of objections seen by 
Congressman Patman it had not appeared advisable to respond favorably to 
the request for financial assistance to the Commission. 
It was his view, 
however, that staff research assistance should be provided quite liberally. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1639 
CONFIDENTIAL (F.R.) 
Proposed press release 
'Item No. 1 
6/1/70 
5/26/70 
For immediate release 
June 
1970 
In a move to improve banking services in the rapidly expanding 
southern Florida area, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System announced today it has authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta to establish a check collection and currency and coin facility 
at Miami. 
At the same time, the Board approved a proposal by the Atlanta 
Reserve Bank to plan the establishment of a branch bank at Miami. 
The check collection and currency and coin facility is expected 
to begin operations by the end of the year. 
It will provide services in 
13 southern Florida counties as follows: 
Broward, Charlotte, Collier, Dade, 
Glades, Hendry, Indian River, Lee, Martin, Monroe, Okeechobee, Palm Beach 
and St. Lucie. 
Growth in Florida's economy has been concentrated in the southern 
part of the State which has growing trade and other economic relationships 
with Central and South America. 
There are now about 150 commercial banks, 
including 86 member banks, in the 13 counties that will be served by a 
Miami facility. 
These banks account for 44 per cent of the total bank 
deposits in the State and receive about 52 per cent of the dollar value of 
currency shipped by the Jacksonville Branch of the Fed eral Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta, which now serves southern Florida. 
Estimates indicate that the proposed Miami facility will handle 
about 14 million checks monthly, a volume that would be exceeded to any 

-2-
1610 
substantial degree only by 2 of the 24 Federal Reserve branch banks. 
The 
establishment of a Miami office would lead to substantial improvement in 
Federal Reserve services in that area and would also relieve pressures on 
the Jacksonville Branch where space problems could become so severe within 
three to five years that construction of a new building would be required 
if that Branch were to continue serving the entire State. 
The 330 miles from Jacksonville to Miami represents the greatest 
distance by far between a Federal Reserve, office and a metropolitan area of 
more than one million persons. 
The 1968 population of the Miami metropolitan 
area was an estimated 1.12 million persons. 
-0-

1641 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
5/26/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F K I C I A L 
C D H R E S P O N O E N C E 
T C 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 3, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
This refers to your letter of March 24, 1970, transmitting 
to the Board a report entitled "The Florida Project" and requesting 
that the Board grant approval to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
to implement the recommendations in the report as soon as practicable. 
The recommendations referred to were that your Bank be permitted to :' 
"Retain its Jacksonville Branch; 
"Open an additional Branch in the City of Miami to 
serve the banks in southern Florida; and until this 
can be accomplished, install in Miami check collec-
tion and currency and coin service facilities to 
serve this area for the interim period; 
"Establish a currency and coin facility in the 
Tampa Bay area to serve the needs of banks in 
Central Florida." 
In the light of this report and of further discussions of 
the matter between representatives of your Bank and the Board's 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, the 
Board hereby authorizes the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (a) to 
establish a check collection and currency and coin facility in the 
Miami area, and (b) to plan the establishment of a Branch Bank at 
Miami. 
Underlying this action was an understanding that the 
Jacksonville Branch would continue to serve the northern and central 
parts of Florida, and that the proposal for a facility in the Tampa 
Bay area would be held in abeyance. 

1MZ 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel 
-2-
Enclosed is a draft of a press release which the Board 
approved, with the further understanding that no public announcement 
would be made in this regard until a date therefor had been agreed 
upon with your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed). Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

1643 
orricE or 
P R E S I D E N T 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 3 0 3 0 3 
Item No. 3 
5/26/70 
May 25, 1970 
Mr. Andrew F. Brimmer 
Member 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Dear Governor Brimmer: 
We understand that consideration of the Florida proposal has 
been deferred until a future meeting of the full Board. 
This being the 
case, wa have taken advantage of the additional time to restate the case 
for a full branch vis-a-vis a check-money facility. 
The following major 
points are pertinent: 
1. 
In view of vault requirements, provision of space 
for currency and coin is very expensive relative 
to the rest of the building. 
In addition, a check-
money facility would require many of the support 
functions that a full branch would entail. 
The 
cost of personnel and of space involved in adding 
the necessary functions for a full branch, therefore, 
would be considerably below the average cost of 
personnel and space for a check-money facility alone. 
2. 
The additional functions (accounting and fiscal), 
however, would allow us to expand materially the 
services offered banks and the general public. 
A 
considerable saving would be realized through a 
reduction in cost of some operations at Jacksonville. 
On balance, we believe that the value of such 
additional services will more than offset the extra 
cost. As noted on the enclosed schedule, we estimate 
the additional annual cost of operations to be 
approximately $700,000. 
3. 
It would be very difficult to explain to the Miami-
area banks the reasons for providing a check-money 

F ^ D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F A T L A N T A 
1614 
Mr. Andrew F . Brimmer 
-2- 
May 25, 1970 
facility rather than a branch. We believe that such 
action would be construed as second class treatment 
and would pose continual bank relation problems for 
us. 
Yours very truly, 
Monroe 'Kimbrel 
/ P r e s i d e n t 
Enclosure 

1645 
ESTIMATED COSTS 
Total Annual Op erating Cost for 
Full Branch* 
Total Annual Op erating Cost for 
Facility* 
Reduction in Cost from Jacksonville 
if a Full Branch is Established 
Reduction in Cost from Jacksonville 
if a Facility is Established 
Actual Annual Differential in Cost 
Between Full Branch and Facility 
$3.32 million 
$2.46 million 
$ .43 million 
$ .28 million 
($3.32 - .43) - ($2.46 - .28) 
$ .71 million 
*Cost estimates include the following for each area: 
1. 
Check Collection 
a. 
Salaries 
b . 
Retirement and other benefits 
c. 
Postage and expressage 
d. 
Printing and supplies 
e. 
Furniture and equipment rentals 
2. 
Currency and Coin 
a. 
Salaries 
b. 
Retirement and other benefits 
c. 
Printing and supplies 
d. Armored car 
3. 
Data Processing 
a. 
Salaries 
b. 
Related 
c. 
Furniture and Equipment rentals 
4. All Other Areas 
a. 
Salaries 
b. 
Related 

mm 
MIAMI BRANCH PROPOSAL 
It is estimated that the following number of employees 
by department would be required to staff a Branch in Miami or a 
currency and coin ancl check facility. 
Also, estimated annual 
operating costs for the first year are presented. 
Currency & Coin 
and Check 
Department 
Full Branch 
Facility 
Accounting 
18 
3 
Administrative 
2 
1 
Auditing 
3 
1 
Check Collection 
122 
122 
Currency & Coin 
32 
32 
Data Processing 
10 
0 
Fiscal Agency 
20 
0 
Officers 
4 
2 
Personnel 
15 
6 
Protection 
32 
19 
Service 
47 
17 
305 
203 
