Minutes for 
February 8, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Shepardson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 8, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

2 
2/8/67 
-10-
Item No. 
Letters to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
1-2 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, approving the 
establishment of branches (1) at Cornwallis 
Road and Chapel Hill Boulevard, Durham, and 
(2) in Alamance County. 
Letter to The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, 
3 
Ohio, granting an extension of time to estab-
lish two branches in a shopping center in 
Richmond Heights, Cuyahoga County. 
Letter to First State Bank, Bangs, Texas, waiv- 
4 
ing the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
Letter to State Bank of Morton, Morton, Washington, 
5 
waiving the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
In connection with Items 4 and 5, Governor Brimmer noted that 
First State Bank and State Bank of Morton had cited as a reason for 
withdrawal the need to maintain adequate balances with correspondent 
banks to compensate for services rendered to them. He raised the ques-
tion whether, when such a reason was given for withdrawal from System 
membership, the letter waiving the requirement for six months' notice 
should contain special language. Governor Brimmer indicated that he 
would discuss his question further with the Division of Examinations. 
Report on competitive factors. A revision of the conclusion 
having been agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to the transmit-
tal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Citizens Bank 

<140 
2/8/67 
-3-
and Emerald National Bank, both of Eugene, Oregon. In the form in which 
approved, the conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Citizens Bank, 
Eugene, and Emerald National Bank, Eugene, would eliminate 
a small amount of existing competition between the two 
banks. However, there are several other alternative bank-
ing facilities in the community, and the overall effect of 
the transaction on competition is not viewed as signifi-
cantly adverse. 
Record of Board policy actions. Discussion of draft entries 
for the Annual Report regarding Board policy actions during 1966, as 
distributed with a memorandum from Mr. Sherman dated February 3, 1967, 
continued at this meeting. 
Mr. Sherman indicated that suggestions made during initial con-
sideration on February 6, 1967, had been taken into account in revising 
several of the proposed entries. The discussion at today's meeting 
therefore centered on the content of the July 15 entry relating to dis-
approval by the Board of increased rates on discounts and advances 
established by the directors of certain Federal Reserve Banks. Alter-
native or additional paragraphs proposed by Governors Daane, Maisel, 
and Brimmer had now been distributed. 
Governor Daane stated that, as he had indicated at the July 14 
and 15, 1966, meetings, he favored the proposed discount rate increase 
on economic grounds. However, he had been aware that such action might 
strain Governmental relationships, and had concluded that the net gain 
from a rate increase would not be sufficient to risk such a development. 

441 
2/8/67 
-10-
In addition, a split vote within the Board might have had detrimental 
effects had it become known. Accordingly, he had been willing to join 
in the disapproval of the proposed rate increase. However, the policy 
record entry as drafted did not reflect his position, and the inclusion 
of a paragraph along the lines he now suggested would help to clarify 
the situation. 
Question was raised about the general desirability of separate 
statements in the policy record on behalf of identified Board members 
who voted with the majority on a policy action. The consensus that 
emerged was that it seemed preferable, to the extent possible, for such 
statements to be avoided. In addition, Governor Robertson suggested to 
Governor Daane that the latter might not want, upon further reflection, 
to incorporate in the record a paragraph intimating that he had voted 
against his best judgment simply for the sake of unanimity. Governor 
Daane then indicated that he would give the matter further thought. 
Governor Brimmer said that his suggested additional paragraph 
was directed toward bringing out in the policy record one aspect of the 
thinking involved in the Board's decision. His paragraph would endorse 
the discount rate as a useful instrument of credit policy and emphasize 
that disapproval of the propos.ed rate increase at the particular time 
did not preclude an increase later if conditions warranted. Certain 
modifications in language were suggested that were agreeable to Governor 
Brimmer, and the paragraph was then accepted on the revised basis for 
inclusion in the entry. 

442 
2/8/67 
-10-
Governor Maisel had presented paragraphs for consideration 
dealing with two points, namely, the advantage of having banks resort 
more to the discount window under conditions such as prevailed in the 
summer of 1966; and the doubtful validity of a theory that the discount 
rate should customarily be changed in conformity with market expecta-
tions . 
After a question was raised by Governor Robertson regarding 
the desirability of including the first paragraph in view of the impli-
cations that might be read into it, Governor Maisel withdrew that 
suggestion, noting that the point seemed implicit in other parts of 
the policy record entry. There was agreement, however, that the second 
paragraph should be included in the policy record. 
Following further discussion, the record of Board policy actions 
during 1966 was approved for inclusion in the Annual Report in a form 
reflecting the changes referred to earlier by Mr. Sherman and the 
changes in the discount rate entry agreed upon at this meeting. It was 
understood that copies of the Board and Federal Open Market Committee 
policy record entries for 1966 would be sent this afternoon to the 
Chairman of the Joint Economic Committee, pursuant to a request that 
had been made in anticipation of Chairman Martin's testimony before the 
Committee tomorrow, and that copies also would be sent to the Chairmen 
of the Senate and House Banking and Currency Committees. 

443 
2/8/67 
-10-
Secretary's Note: Governor Daane decided 
subsequent to the meeting against includ-
ing in the entry on the proposed discount 
rate increase a separate expression of his 
views. However, an editorial change was 
made in the entry at his suggestion to 
clarify that not all of the Board members 
subscribed in full to the reasons given 
for disapproval of the rate increase. 
Messrs. Brill, Holland, Solomon (Adviser), and Egertson with-
drew from the meeting at this point. 
Proposed Welfare and Pension Plans Act (Item No. 6). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated February 7, 1967, from the Legal 
Division relating to a Bureau of the Budget request for the Board's 
views with respect to a proposed "Welfare and Pension Plans Act," pre-
pared by the Department of Labor. The draft legislation was the result 
of extensive study by Presidential and interagency committees. As 
drafted, the bill would impose fiduciary responsibility on persons 
handling welfare and pension funds and would require the disclosure of 
additional information concerning the financial operations of retire-
ment plans. 
Of particular interest to the Board was the section relating 
to the responsibility of a co-trustee for management and control of an 
"employee benefit fund." It appeared probable that banks would act in 
this capacity, but there were certain ambiguities in language with 
respect thereto. Attached to the memorandum was a draft reply to the 
Bureau of the Budget that would express a sympathetic view on the part 

444 
2/8/67 
-10-
of the Board toward the proposed legislation but would call attention 
to the need for clarification of certain provisions of the draft bill. 
Following remarks by Mr. Hooff based principally on the distrib-
uted material, Governor Brimmer noted that under the proposed legisla-
tion certain investigatory responsibilities were vested in the Secretary 
of Labor that would appear to duplicate functions of the Federal bank 
supervisory agencies, in instances where a bank was acting as trustee 
or had control of pension trust funds. He suggested that a paragraph 
be added to the proposed reply that would express the hope that such 
duplication would be avoided and that the Secretary of Labor would 
utilize so far as possible the facilities and personnel of the Federal 
bank supervisory agencies in investigating any apparent violations of 
the Act. 
There was agreement with that suggestion. Accordingly, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Bureau of the Budget in the form 
attached as Item No. 6. 
Military leave policy (Item No. 7). A suggested revision of 
the Board's statement of policy with respect to the treatment of em-
ployees entering service in the Armed Forces of the United States (last 
revised in 1950) was discussed at the meeting on December 5, 1966, at 
which time several questions were raised. It was agreed that any ques-
tions that could not be resolved satisfactorily through further discus-
sion between interested members of the Board and the Division of 
Personnel Administration would be brought back to the Board for consid-
eration. 

9 
2/8/67 
-10-
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated January 18, 
1967, from the Division of Personnel Administration presenting the 
principal difference still unresolved, namely, a suggestion of Governor 
Brimmer that the word "normally" be inserted in the basic statement 
that the Board would not request a deferment of any of its employees 
subject to the draft. 
That policy, in effect since World War II, had 
most recently been reaffirmed by the Board at its meeting on October 24, 
1966. 
Following summary remarks by Messrs. Johnson and Hart, Governor 
Brimmer said he subscribed to the general principle that the Board 
should not seek deferment of its employees; however, it was his view 
that reasonable flexibility should be maintained. 
He could conceive 
of instances where it would be useful to request a postponement of entry 
into military service in order to permit completion of a project, partic-
ularly one requiring scarce technical skills. 
During the ensuing discussion, other members of the Board agreed 
that extraordinary situations might arise that would merit special con-
sideration. 
From the standpoint of personnel relations, however, 
Governor Daane suggested that any indication of a more flexible policy 
in a distributed document might generate false hopes among employees 
that could in turn present administrative difficulties. 
Chairman 
Martin's concern centered on the problem that might be involved in an 
appearance of deviation by the Board from the practices of other agen-
cies. 
Messrs. Johnson and Hart pointed out that perhaps the question 

446 
2/8/67 
-10-
turned principally on whether the Board had in mind merely preserving 
sufficient latitude to seek a postponement of the date on which an 
employee would enter military duty in extraordinary circumstances where 
the Board's interests would be served by such a postponement. 
Mr. Koch then said that, speaking for the Division of Research 
and Statistics, the administrative job would be easier if the stated 
policy of the Board remained unchanged, subject to an understanding 
that in exceptional cases the Division administration might request, at 
its own initiative, Board consideration of an effort to obtain a rela-
tively brief postponement of the date of entry into military service. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that such an understanding would 
meet his point and that he would not, under those circumstances, press 
his suggestion regarding the language of the policy statement. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that the stated policy of the Board 
not to request a deferment for any of its employees subject to the draft 
would remain unchanged, with the understanding, however, that in extraor-
dinary circumstances a request by a Division for Board consideration of 
an effort to obtain a postponement of the date of entry of an employee 
into military service would be appropriate. 
Mr. Hart pointed out that the policy statement would contain 
language satisfactory to Governor Brimmer on the matter of consideration 
to be given to experience gained in military service in placing employees 
upon their return from service. No question was raised regarding the 
proposed revised language on that point. 

447 
2/8/67 
-10-
On the subject of retirement credit, Mr. Johnson pointed out 
that the statement, as now revised, contained a paragraph stating that 
for employees under the Bank Plan of the Retirement System of the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks, creditable service and reinstatement rights of 
members on military service leave were protected pursuant to the Rules 
and Regulations of the Retirement System. This language had been 
included pursuant to a suggestion by Governor Daane at the December 5 
meeting. Mr. Johnson said that the Retirement System office had sug-
gested that the Board might wish to drop the option now available to 
persons from the Reserve Banks who joined the Board's staff to remain 
in the Bank Plan. However, he was not sure the Board would want to go 
that far. On the other hand, he doubted the need to include any refer-
ence to employees under the Bank Plan in the military leave policy 
statement; at present there were no members of the Board's staff who 
were under the Bank Plan. 
Governor Daane then said that in the circumstances he would 
withdraw his suggestion. 
After further discussion, unanimous approval was given to a 
statement of military leave policy in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Adjustments in economic policies after Vietnam. Chairman 
Martin referred to the Economic Report of the President, transmitted to 
the Congress in January 1967, wherein the President stressed the need 
for plans to be made looking toward economic policy adjustments in the 

448 
2/8/67 
-10-
event of peace in Vietnam. Among other things, the President said he 
had asked the heads of the relevant agencies in the Executive Branch, 
under the leadership of the Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, 
to prepare various plans, including plans, in collaboration with the 
Federal Reserve Board, for quick adjustments of monetary and financial 
policies. 
There was agreement with the Chairman's suggestion that the Vice 
Chairman be requested to begin work with Mr. Brill on this matter. It 
was understood that the Vice Chairman would keep the members of the 
Board advised of developments from time to time. 
Foreign travel. Chairman Martin reported that President Galusha 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had received an invitation to 
attend a conference at the Vatican on tourism, the main emphasis of which 
would be on promoting human relations throughout the world. It was Chair-
man Martin's suggestion that Mr. Galusha also be requested to call on 
the central banks of several countries, including Jordan, Israel, and 
Greece. 
No objection was indicated. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: On February 7, 1967, 
Governor Shepardson approved on behalf 
of the Board acceptance of the resigna-
tion of Barbara W. Parker, Stenographer, 
Division of International Finance, effec-
tive the close of business February 10, 
1967. 
Or< > 
Secretary 

449 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
Item No. 5 
2/8/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O I N C C 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approves the establishment by 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, 
North Carolina, of a branch at the intersection of 
Cornwallis Road and Chapel Hill Boulevard in 
Durham, North Carolina, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

450 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, ti. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/8/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Wachovia Bank and 
Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, of a branch 
on Huffman Mill Road near the intersection of South 
Church Street in Alamance County, North Carolina, provided 
the branch is established within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

451 
• • « • * 
BOARD D F GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
2/8/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Union Commerce Bank, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to. August 24, 1967, the time within which 
The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, Ohio, may establish 
two branches, one a drive-in facility, in a shopping 
center at the northeast corner of the intersection of 
Wilson Mills and Richmond Roads, Richmond Heights, 
Cuyahoga County, Ohio. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
2/8/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A O D R E B S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February'8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
First State Bank, 
Bangs, Texas. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas has forwarded to the 
Board of Governors President HenleyTs letter dated January 20, 1967, 
together with the accompanying resolution dated January 17, 1967, 
signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accom-
plish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, such stock 
will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Very truly yours 
: 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

453 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/8/67 
A O O R C S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
State Bank of Morton, 
Morton, Washington. 
Gentlemen: 
The Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco has forwarded to 
the Board of Governors President Hagen's letter dated January 13, 1967, 
together with the accompanying resolution dated January 12, 1967, 
signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the Federal 
Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
The Board of Governors waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. 
Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may accom-
plish termination of its membership at any time within eight months 
from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. 
Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your institution, 
such stock will be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made 
thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
A 
} 

454 
OIGOWV. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
2/8/67 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C O R R E S P D N D I NC E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
February 8, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr, Rommel: 
This refers to your letter of February 1, 1967, requesting 
the Board's views with respect to the enclosed draft of a proposed 
bill, and supporting material, prepared by the Department of Labor 
for a "Welfare and Pension Plans Act". 
The Board is sympathetic to legislation which would impose 
fiduciary responsibility on persons handling welfare and pension funds, 
and which would require the disclosure of additional information con-
cerning the financial operations of retirement plans. 
The Board is especially interested in the provisions of 
section 14(i) of the proposed bill which deals with the responsibility 
of a co-trustee for management and control of an "employee benefit fund . 
It is probable that banks will act in this capacity and there appear to 
be certain ambiguities in the language of this paragraph. For example, 
it is provided that where such management and control is held by two 
or more trustees each shall use "reasonable care" to prevent the 
co-trustee from committing a breach of trust or to "compel" a co-trustee 
to redress a breach of trust. Reasonable care to prevent such a breach 
by a co-trustee is understandable, but it is not clear how a trustee 
may compel a co-trustee to redress a breach of trust that has been 
committed. It is also provided that when there are more than two 
trustees any power vested in such trustees may be exercised by a 
but no trustee who has not joined in exercising a power shall be liable 
for the consequences of such exercise, provided, however, that the 
co-trustee shall not be excused from liability for inactivity nor for 
"failure to prevent a breach of trust". Again, it is pot understood 

455 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
-2-
how the co-trustee having been outvoted by the majority could have 
prevented the breach of trust. It is believed that the language of 
this paragraph should be amplified and clarified so that the co-trustee 
will be fully aware of his responsibility. 
It is assumed that, in accordance with the objective stated 
in section 9(j) of avoiding unnecessary expense and duplication of 
functions, the Secretary of Labor will utilize the facilities and 
personnel of the Federal banking regulatory agencies in investigating 
any violation of this Act insofar as possible rather than using 
personnel of the Labor Department for this purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

156 
Policy Relating to Employees of the 
Item No. 7 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
2/8/67 
Entering Service in the Armed Forces of the United States 
under the Universal Training and Service Act 
In accordance with the intent of Congress as expressed in the 
Universal Military Training and Service Act, the Board of Governors has 
approved the following policy with respect to employees (other than tem-
porary employees) who are; 
(a) inducted under the Act; 
(b) called as reservists to active duty in the Armed 
Forces of the United States or in the United States 
Public Health Service, and serving for not more than 
four years after the date of entering upon active 
duty, or as soon after the expiration of the four 
years as he is able to obtain orders releasing him 
from active duty; or 
(c) enlisting in the Armed Forces of the United States 
and serving for not more than four years (plus any 
period of additional service imposed pursuant to 
law), 
Hequest for deferment 
As a matter of policy, the Board of Governors will not request 
a deferment for any of its employees subject to the draft. 
Provision for Employees Entering Military Service 
Employees entering military service will receive all rights to 
^hich entitled under the lawo Board policy with respect to other matters 
are j 
(a) Payment of Unearned Salary 
In conformance with practice of Federal Government 
agencies, no payment for unearned salary will be 
made to employees entering active military service. 
(b) Annual leave 
Such employees will be entitled to payment of salary 
in lieu of earned leave not taken. Annual leave is 
not earned during the period of military service; 
however, service credit toward annual leave is allowed 
for the full period of military service, if reinstated 
in the Board's employ. 

-2-
457 
(c) Retirement Credit 
An employee under the Board Plan or Civil Service 
Retirement System shall not be considered for re-
tirement purposes as separated from his position 
during the period of his military service unless 
he applies for and receives a refund of his retire-
ment contributions at entrance into military ser-
vice, 
(However, see Retirement Benefit for Return-
ing Employee below,) If he chooses to leave his 
contributions in the Board Plan, the Board will 
continue to contribute in his behalf to the Retire-
ment System on a special military service basis. 
(d) Group Hospitalization-Surgical-Medical Program (FEHBA) 
Board coverage under the Federal Employees Health Bene-
fits Act for employees and their dependents will be 
discontinued during military leave, 
(The current 
Dependents Medicare Program provides coverage for 
dependents of servicemen,) 
(e) Federal Employees Group Life Insurance (FEGLI) 
Coverage under the Federal Employees Group Life 
Insurance program ceases effective with entrance into 
military service. If so desired, a person entering 
military service may convert coverage to an individual 
policy at the rate applicable to his attained age, 
Employee Returning from Military Service 
At the expiration of such military service, the employee will be 
reinstated in the position he left, or one of like seniority, status, and 
Pay, provided: 
1. He presents a certificate in evidence of completion of 
training and service under honorable conditions; 
2. (a) Inductee on active duty for not more than four years; 
(plus any period of additional service imposed pursuant 
to law) 
Makes application for re-employment within 90 days after 
he is discharged from training and service, or from hos-
pitalization continuing after discharge for a period of 
not more than one year; 

458 
-3-
(b) Six-month trainee: 
Makes application within 60 days after discharge 
from active duty for training or from such hospi-
talization; 
(c) Reservist undergoing periods of training duty 
shorter than six months: 
Makes application within 30 days, 
3. He is still qualified to perform the duties of such position. 
If the employee meets conditions 1 and 2, but is found to be not 
qualified for the position he left (or one of like seniority, status, and 
pay) because of disability sustained during training and service, he will 
be restored to such other position, the duties of which he is qualified to 
perform, as will provide him like seniority, status, and pay, or the 
nearest approximation thereof, consistent with the circumstances in his 
case. In appraising suitability for reinstatement in a position at the 
Board, consideration will be given to the nature of experience in the 
service as qualification for existing and future vacancies, 
Retirement Benefits 
Upon reinstatement the employee will resume membership in the 
Retirement System and will retain all benefits based on creditable service 
rendered prior to entering military service and, in addition, will receive 
full service credit for the period of time spent in military service, pro-
vided he did not withdraw his contributions or if he did withdraw them, 
Provided he redeposits them. 
Hospital and Surgical Benefits 
) Reinstated by application upon 
Federal Employees Group Life Insurance) return from military service. 
Re -enlistment 
All privileges and benefits terminate if the individual voluntarily 
remains in service longer than required by the law under which he is serving, 
Military Leave During a Calendar Year 
Fifteen calendar days with pay for military leave is granted each 
year to an employee who, because of an active Reserve classification, is 
required to take annual military training. The employee may elect to use 
annual leave or leave of absence without pay for any period of required mili-
tary training in excess of fifteen calendar days per year. 
