PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
February 5. 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. (Meeting with Federal Advisory Council) 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

348 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 10:30 a.m. 
on Friday, February 5, 1971. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Meyer 1/, Dorrance, Fangboner, Barr, 
; • Bassett, Freeman, Reardon, Miller, Gray, 
and Clausen, Members of the Federal 
Advisory Council from the Second, Third, 
Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, Ninth, 
Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth Federal 
Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of 
the Council 
Messrs. Wheeler and Morgan, Members of the Council from the 
First and Eighth Federal Reserve Districts, respectively, were unable 
to be present for today's meeting. 
In Mr. Morgan's absence the Eighth 
District was represented by Mr. Ronald Terry, Executive Vice President, 
The First National Bank of Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee. 
i./ Messrs. Burns and Meyer were delayed in joining the meeting 
because of transportation difficulties. 

348 
2/5/71 
-2-
Also present was Mr. William H. Moore, Chairman of the Board, 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, and a former member of the 
Council. 
Mr. Moore had represented the Second District during the 
Council's meeting yesterday in the absence of Mr. Meyer. 
The following officers had been elected by the Federal Advisory 
Council to serve for the year 1971: 
President 
John M. Meyer, Jr. 
Vice President 
A. W. Clausen 
Secretary 
Herbert V. Prochnow 
Assistant Secretary 
William J. Korsvik 
The following had been elected members of the Executive Commit-
tee to serve with the President (Mr. Meyer) and Vice President (Mr. Clausen) 
Mark C. Wheeler, Allen Morgan, and John E. Gray. 
The following persons, newly elected, were attending their 
first meeting as members of the Council: 
G. Morris Dorrance, Jr., Chairman of the Board and 
President, The Philadelphia National Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
John S. Fangboner, Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer, The National City Bank of 
Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio 
Joseph W. Barr, President, American Security and Trust 
Company, Washington, D.C. 
Harry Hood Bassett, Chairman of the Board, First 
National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida 
Gaylord Freeman, Chairman of the Board, The First 
National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois 
T. M. Reardon, Chairman of the Board, Western State 
Bank, Sioux Falls, South Dakota 

3 5 C 
2/5/71 
-3-
Morris F. Miller, Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer, The Omaha National Bank, 
Omaha, Nebraska 
1. 
Economic and financial developments and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity, prices and costs, 
and resource use in 1971? 
The members of the Council report general agreement that the 
decline in business and economic activity has bottomed out and that a 
period of slowly accelerating growth is under way. 
However, those 
districts where defense industries tend to dominate continue to experi-
ence unemployment higher than the national average with a consequent 
adverse impact on consumer spending. 
The Council's appraisal of the outlook for prices and costs 
is less hopeful. 
Some progress has been achieved in reducing the pace 
of inflation and little if any of the current upward pressure on prices 
is the result of excess demand. 
However, continued cost increases, 
primarily labor costs, will maintain upward pressures on prices through-
out 1971. 
The substantial margin of unused manufacturing capacity and 
the level of unemployment indicate that the economy is not fully using 
its resources or production capabilities. 
Although economic activity 
will increase in 1971, the gain will not be sufficiently large to tax 
our productive capacity. 
This under-utilization of resources should 
be helpful in lessening inflationary pressures in 1971. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the Council had considered 
the question in terms of the target set by the Council of Economic 
Advisers of gross national product of $1,065 billion for 1971. 
Responses 
indicated that Council members were less optimistic; their estimates 
ranged between $1,045 and $1,050 billion. 
B. How do Council members assess the current state 
of expectations with regard to inflation, con-
sumer attitudes toward spending and savings, 
and over-all business confidence? 
To what 
extent are current expectations and attitudes 
being influenced by fiscal or monetary policy 
developments? 

3 S 1 
2/5/71 
-4-
The members of the Council believe that despite some progress 
in curtailing inflation, which progress may continue in the months 
immediately ahead, there is a deep concern that over the longer period 
inflation will continue. 
There are growing indications of moderately improving consumer 
confidence and increased spending. 
The resulting increase in consumer 
spending is likely to be accompanied by some decline in the savings 
rate. 
Over-all business confidence is only showing modest improve-
ment. 
This reflects the persistence of rising wage costs, sluggish 
sales, and narrowing profit margins. 
Current expectations and attitudes, especially in the business 
community, reflect the belief that aggressively expansive fiscal and 
monetary policies will stimulate business activity. 
However, they also suggest to many businessmen that the Admin-
istration's determination to fight inflation and slow the rise in prices 
has weakened. 
In response to a question whether continued narrowing of profit 
0 l M ' • 
' l ' 
' t n 
margins was expected by businessmen, one member of the Council indicated 
that some improvement over 1970 was anticipated while another commented 
that improvement in productivity would be the key to better profits. 
Mr. Clausen said it was the general feeling that although 
business would continue to be sluggish in the coming months, a pick-up 
in the second half should result in a somewhat better result for the 
year as a whole. 
If the consumer regained confidence and began to 
i 
. . ; , 
spend more freely, an upturn would be triggered. 
However, that develop-
ment was not expected until the latter part of the year. 
Governor Mitchell observed that the demand for money had con-
tinued weak in January, which suggested that the economic revival many 

2/5/71 
-5-
expected after settlement of the General Motors strike had not yet 
occurred. 
Mr. Barr agreed that the first quarter was thus far not 
showing the expected strength. 
He had been cautioned neither to be 
unduly discouraged about the last quarter of 1970 nor too optimistic 
about the first quarter of 1971, but the latter admonition so far was 
not meaningful. 
Mr. Clausen commented on a feeling among businessmen that 
current economic priorities were politically motivated. 
They were 
setting their game plan in expectation of a large input through Govern-
ment economic policy, with the fight against inflation deferred or 
prolonged. 
There was increasing talk among businessmen of the need for 
some sort of wage and price guidelines. 
Also, with the present excess 
of plant capacity, capital expenditures were being deferred in many 
cases until a turn-around in business activity was in sight. 
C. How do Council members appraise the current 
and prospective state of business loan demand? 
With the exception of one or two districts, current business 
loan demand is relatively weak. 
While we expect the pace of business 
will improve in 1971 over 1970, it is not anticipated that loan demand 
will expand significantly before the latter half of the year. 
The demand for home mortgage and agriculture loans is compara-
tively strong. 
Consumer loan demand is currently flat, but should improve 
with a return of consumer confidence. 
Discussion brought out that loan demand was showing some strength 
in a few Districts, including the Seventh and the Twelfth. 
In the former 

2/5/71 
-6-
there had been no decline in January from the December level of demand 
for commercial and industrial loans. Many customers had large accounts 
receivable portfolios and heavier inventories, which created a need for 
borrowing. 
Term loans had remained static and money market loans had 
declined slightly. 
In California the seasonal runoff had not been as 
great as usual. 
Corporations with secondary ratings had experienced 
some difficulty in placing capital issues and therefore were clinging 
to their bank credit lines. 
It was hoped that an improved profits 
picture in 1971 would enable them to refinance. 
One member of the Council reported that loan commitments were 
flat; another that unused commitments were increasing. 
• . rl CV J-':O. •.. .' ! 
•• • ! . \ 
• • 
' •>-
A question whether banks were still seeking to improve their 
liquidity brought responses to the effect that restoration of liquidity 
was being given continuing attention. 
Governor Brimmer inquired to what extent banks were sending 
representatives into the field to seek loans, and whether there had 
been any disbanding of the loan review committees that were active a 
year or so ago. 
Responses indicated that banks were aggressively seeking 
loans, but with emphasis on quality. 
There had been no dismantling of 
loan committees, although they were currently less active. 
Smaller banks 
were being received a little more enthusiastically when they approached 
correspondent banks with requests for loan participations. 

2/5/71 
-7-
Governor Maisel inquired whether the Council's comments implied 
that as the long-term market improved and secondary corporations moved 
into it there would be a further decline in bank loans. Mr. Clausen 
expressed the view that such a move by secondary firms might well be 
offset by increased use of short-term bank financing by top-rated 
corporations incident to an upturn of business. 
Mr. Clausen also commented that his bank's strategy at present 
was to concentrate on the consumer. 
With its extensive network of branches 
the bank was in a good position to do that. 
However, although rates on 
consumer loans had been reduced twice recently, a psychological shift 
was needed. 
Mr. Moore reported a feeling at his bank that there would be a 
resurgence of demand for money. 
Historically the tendency of banks had 
been to fill up their portfolios quickly, including some loans that were 
not of the best quality. 
This time many banks probably would hold back 
somewhat in the commercial and industrial category, even at the expense 
of tolerating relatively low loan ratios. 
Mr. Freeman noted that his bank, which could not have branches, 
therefore conducted primarily a wholesale banking business. 
One concern 
related to the narrowing of the spread between the cost of money and the 
rates obtainable on loans. 
He was convinced that a strong loan demand 
would reappear in about 18 months to two years, and that if a bank 

357 
2/5/71 
-8-
stepped up its loans in 1971 it would again be poorly positioned to meet 
the demand in 1972. 
In that event it probably would be necessary again 
to borrow high-cost funds. 
Governor Brimmer observed that inflows of deposits had been 
growing rapidly, especially in time accounts. 
He inquired whether, if 
it were assumed that monetary policy would remain unchanged and the 
inflow continued, banks would continue to pay down their borrowed funds. 
Mr. Freeman expressed doubt that his bank would experience a 
large increase in time deposits, because savings and loan associations 
were in a better position to compete for those funds. 
There might be 
some increase in demand deposits. 
However, if loan programs were deferred 
too long, earnings would suffer, and a bank must account to its share-
holders. 
Other members agreed that pressure from shareholders was an 
important influence. 
2. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
The Council commends the actions followed during the particu-
larly d ifficult economic and financial situations last year. 
The members of the Council are unanimous in their view that 
the Regulation Q ceilings should be suspended on large-denomination money 
market instruments ($100,000 and above), and that this may be an opportune 
time to take such action. 
A majority of the members also favor the sus-
pension of Regulation Q ceilings on passbook savings deposits and smaller 
certificates of deposit. 
The Council recognizes the pressures for expansionary monetary 
and credit policies and approves a moderately expansive policy under 
current circumstances. 
However, there is growing concern that an overly 
aggressive policy of expansion in the months ahead will accelerate infla-
tion, threaten renewed pressure on our gold and international reserve 
assets, and lay the foundations for major dislocations in the economy. 

2/5/71 
-9-
Mr. Clausen stated that those members of the Council who were 
not in favor of suspending rate ceilings on passbook savings and smaller 
CD's argued that the rate limitations on such deposits were in effect a 
4 
subsidy to savings and loan associations. 
Therefore, before the ceilings 
were suspended something would have to be done to make the associations 
more like commercial banks, with the responsibilities as well as the 
benefits. 
The minority had pointed out that in the eyes of many members 
of the public there is no difference between a bank and a savings and 
loan. 
Accordingly the public alarm generated by any failures of savings 
and loan associations would be detrimental also to the banking system. 
In response to a question about the rationale of those who 
recommended suspension of the rate ceilings on thrift deposits, Mr. Freeman 
said they felt that all markets for money should be as free as possible 
and the time to bring about that freedom was when, as at present, there 
t 
! 
was no upward pressure on rates. 
As to the savings and loan associations, 
it was agreed that it would be desirable for them to have the same priv-
ileges and burdens as commercial banks. 
Chairman Burns remarked that he found the question of timing 
difficult. 
The conversion of thrift institutions into commercial banks 
could not be accomplished immediately, yet the majority of the Council 
advocated suspending the ceilings on thrift accounts. Mr. Freeman 
replied that in the opinion of the majority this was an appropriate 

357 
2/5/71 
-10-
time for the action since commercial banks were not likely to raise 
their rates. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the key question was how long 
the economy was expected to be relatively soft. 
If a period of 9 to 18 
months was contemplated during which interest rates would not be very 
strong and profit margins would be meager, banks would be under pressure 
to reduce passbook rates. 
If the savings and loans should follow with 
reductions in their own rates, the ceilings would in effect be suspended 
and the two types of institutions would be competing directly with each 
other. 
Mr. Freeman expressed the view that most banks would be reluctant 
to make reductions if they thought the current thrift deposit rates could 
be supported 9 months from now because small savers had been valuable to 
banks in periods of monetary stringency and probably would be again. 
If 
the prospect was for softness for a year or more, however, the attitude 
might be different. 
Mr. Miller observed that the Council had first considered recom-
mending elimination rather than suspension of the ceilings but had changed 
the wording because of its understanding of the law. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out that if the present law was not 
renewed beyond its expiration date (in March 1971) the Board's authority 
would revert to the previous terms of the statute, under which it could 

358 
2/5/71 
-li-
no t differentiate among deposits according to denomination and could 
not suspend ceilings. 
The Council indicated that it had not considered 
that aspect of the matter. 
Mr. Freeman commented that an alternative to imposing ceilings 
on thrift deposits to protect savings and loan associations might be to 
grant those institutions a subsidy. 
He suggested that such an approach 
might be preferable to penalizing and discouraging savers. 
In further discussion, Mr. Clausen noted that 4-1/2 per cent 
was actually not a bad rate of return on a demand deposit, which pass-
book savings were in practical effect, following which Governor Maisel 
observed that in the view of the Congress one of the functions of the 
regulation of financial institutions should be to cause money to flow 
to certain uses, such as housing, and not necessarily at the market 
rate. 
Chairman Burns noted the Council's reference to growing concern 
that an overly aggressive policy of expansion would accelerate inflation 
and inquired whether this referred to monetary policy or governmental 
policy in general. 
Mr. Clausen replied that it was governmental policy on an over-
all basis, including aspects that reflected political considerations. 
The present unemployment rate was politically unacceptable, so there 
appeared to be less emphasis on the fight against inflation. 
Businessmen, 
however, considered inflation to be the principal cancer in our society 

357 
2/5/71 
-12-
and were disappointed that efforts to combat it were being stretched 
out. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the earlier indication that Council 
members expected 1971 GNP to run in the neighborhood of $1,045 to $1,050 
billion, in contrast with the Administration's target of $1,065 billion. 
In the event of a shortfall, he wondered what policy actions the Council 
would consider appropriate. 
Mr. Clausen responded that it was the feeling of the Council 
that the fires of inflation might be fueled all over again through 
trying to achieve a target of $1,065 billion. 
Chairman Burns inquired whether the Council regarded current 
monetary policy as too expansive, either for the longer run or the 
months immediately ahead. 
Mr. Freeman responded that, on the basis of available evidence, 
he believed monetary policy might be somewhat too expansive. 
Although 
the time span had not been debated at length, the Council felt generally 
that a proper rate of growth of the money supply for both the short and 
the longer term would be about 4 per cent. 
A rate of growth of about 
3 per cent had prevailed from 1959 through 1964, during which period 
there had been only a modest increase in prices. When the rate went 
UP, prices had increased more rapidly. 
It was understood that the GNP 
target set by the Council of Economic Advisers for 1971 would require 
a growth rate of money of 9 per cent or more, and in the view of the 

36t! 
2/5/71 
-13-
Federal Advisory Council, that would be a mistake. 
Board members observed that there might be difficulty in recon-
ciling even a GNP of $1,045-1,050 billion with a 4 per cent growth rate 
in money and that the unemployment rate associated with a GNP at that 
level might be around 6 per cent. 
Mr. Clausen indicated that the Council was in favor of modest 
growth of the economy, which it believed might be achieved with a 4 
per cent growth rate in money. 
It was concerned that the accelerator 
not be pushed too hard. Mr. Moore noted that vigorous measures aimed 
at reducing unemployment in areas where it was above the national 
. . ' ' list 
17* : ' ' 
. • 
.:. ' 
average might have some widespread inflationary consequences. 
Mr. Barr pointed out that the Council was unanimous in commend-
ing generally the actions the System had taken last year. 
However, 
because of the weakness of the demand for funds in the fourth quarter, 
it had become difficult to ascertain from the available statistics the 
precise posture of Federal Reserve policy. 
3. 
Regulatory matters. 
The Board would appreciate the Council's views regarding 
the implementation of the authority granted it by the 
Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970. 
Specific-
ally, what are the Council's views with respect to: 
A. 
The lines of activity for non-banking subsidiaries 
of bank holding companies that the Board has indi-
cated might be permissible. 
B. Any desirable qualifications, limitations, or con-
straints that might be attached to the lines of 
activity referred to in (A) above -- e.g., on the 
kind or geographic scope of operations that might 
be engaged in under any given line of activity. 

357 
2/5/71 
-14-
The members of the Council will be pleased to discuss orally 
the proposed amendments to Regulation Y resulting from the Bank Holding 
Company Act Amendments of 1970, as well as the proposed registration 
statement required under the Act as amended. 
Mr. 
Clausen expressed the Council's appreciation for the oppor-
tunity to discuss this subject with the Board during the formative stage. 
The Council urged that bank holding companies be given considerable 
latitude and flexibility in order to meet the challenges of a changing 
society. 
The Council would have preferred a case law approach in which 
a pattern would be developed through decisions on particular applications. 
However, it recognized that such an approach might not be feasible from 
an administrative standpoint. 
The Council was somewhat concerned that 
the initial "laundry list" might get frozen, and suggested that it be 
4 • i •' 1 " 
1 C" . ! ; i . . > ; . i j 
i 
- 
. 
"-" i' 
made clear that the list was not intended to be all-inclusive. 
An even more important concern, Mr. Clausen continued, was that 
certain items on the proposed list of permissible activities were set 
forth in language that had the effect of reducing the latitude now 
available to national banks to engage in activities incidental to 
banking. 
The proposed treatment of section 4(c)(5) tended to limit 
that area to banking and fiduciary activities. 
Further, it limited 
national banks, acting under their incidental powers,to local activities. 
The Council regarded the new statute as a permissive one and urged that 
lt not be used to remove present privileges. 

357 
2/5/71 
-15-
Chairman Burns observed that the published list was intended 
primarily as a starting point and that hearings would be held with 
respect to the proposed activities to the extent required. 
He inquired 
whether the Council regarded the list as too restrictive when viewed in 
that light, and an affirmative response was made. 
The Council also was apprehensive regarding the proposed regula-
tion from a procedural point of view, Mr. Clausen continued. 
He and 
other members of the Council cited examples, such as where a finance 
company with hundreds of offices was a bank holding company subsidiary. 
Each year a number of offices might be closed and a number of others 
opened, and it appeared that for each such change an application would 
have to be filed. 
Also, if a bank holding company wanted to acquire 
such a subsidiary, publication apparently would be required, and possibly 
hearings held, in all of the communities where units were located. 
Even 
in the case of de novo entry an application apparently would have to be 
filed and consummation delayed for 45 days. 
Chairman Burns pointed out that it could have been held that a 
formal hearing before a hearing examiner in connection with each individ-
ual application was necessary to comply with the statute. 
The Board had 
been probing for a more liberal procedure that would enable it to live 
within the law, and it would appreciate any views Council members might 
have. 

357 
2/5/71 
-16-
Governor Maisel observed that in the event of an order of the 
Board adverse to a competitor, the latter had the right to judicial 
review. 
It was necessary, therefore, that the Board's procedures not be 
subject to challenge as having failed to meet the statutory requirements. 
Mr. Clausen then said the Council believed that the proposed 
regulation was overly restrictive when it came to property leasing, for 
which full pay-out was specified. 
This was not now required in the case 
of national banks, although in practice it was his impression that a full 
pay-out usually did occur. 
It would seem that bank holding companies 
should have the same latitude as national banks. 
»(c} (3). 
i j> jaorus .t 
• 
' • 
i , - 
i. iv 
c. 
i-'i • 
Asked whether banks had done any substantial amount of leasing 
that left some equity remaining at the end of the lease period, and 
whether losses had been incurred, Council members indicated that on the 
aaa „" 
• .i • C" V'.i •.»::!' . 
< 
; • .. 
•. ' • • ' 
basis of limited experience no significant problems had been encountered. 
The Council suggested that the regulation refer only to "leasing personal 
Mir;. C IJ i? 
e.t rc* 
next. ' •: 
i • ••./...•' • - . •: ! 
property," without any limitation regarding pay-out. 
Discussion then turned to the item "Acting as insurance agent or 
broker, principally in connection with extensions of credit by the hold-
s-'i, 
i-ng company or any of its subsidiaries." 
Comments by members of the 
t4»t t (;••.- only to c'ho axt 
VJ a. u'ch 
vx- ' - •• 
outs 
•..'*• 
Council brought out that such language would appear to preclude a rather 
pi"I r,'** | tvi,' [tni't5 ni i 
• • 
: a 
'tii 
..h. a • i. i : f ' ' • - ava?a o 
common arrangement under which an insurance agency was used as the 
vehicle for acquisition of a bank and dividends were fed back through 

3CA 
2/5/71 
-17-
the agency. 
The arrangement had tax advantages and was especially 
useful in unit banking States. 
The Council also found difficulty with the proposed requirement 
that insurance business be "principally" in connection with extensions 
of credit by the holding company system. 
Especially in the interior 
of the country, insurance subsidiaries now wrote policies for a much 
broader clientele. 
After Board members had suggested that the word "principally" 
might be construed liberally, as it had been in the past in some section 
4(c)(8) decisions, Governor Maisel noted that legislative history indi-
it-..j CMi 
, '!!•.. . .. . .• r 
b. ' 
. if 
cated a Congressional intent to prevent banks from taking over the 
insurance business in small communities. 
It was suggested that, if 
members of the Council wanted to propose alternative wording for the 
regulation, they let the Board have their suggestions. 
Mr. Clausen referred next to the question of bookkeeping or 
data processing services, particularly the fact that a bank holding 
company would be allowed to provide such services to customers other 
than the holding company, its subsidiaries, and other financial insti-
tutions only to the extent that such services for outsiders were not 
a principal portion of the total. 
Here again the Council's reservations 
f^Z tco l[V\ 
,fc;ti:* iik:or;:• ca rr.^p-n . At: 
, ^.Jitor^l h,irJi-: 
stemmed from use of "principal." 
After discussion of several suggestions by members of the Council 
alternative wording, Board members again pointed out that the present 

3 G I j 
2/5/71 
-18-
lariguage might be preferable because, as indicated earlier, it could be 
interpreted more flexibly. 
The discussion brought out that bank customers 
frequently requested data processing services, and it was helpful to both 
bank and customer to be able to comply with such requests. 
Comments were 
made by members of the Board on the need to insure that bank holding com-
pany organizations did not expand their activities in the data processing 
field to the extent that they became a barrier to the entry of independent 
data processing companies. 
The intent of Congress regarding such activ-
ities was discussed, and it was pointed out that in the law there was no 
clear-cut answer to the question whether it was intended that a bank 
holding company subsidiary should have powers different from those a 
bank could exercise through an operations subsidiary. 
Governor Mitchell inquired how the Council would feel about a 
limitation based on customer relationships, and members of the Council 
reacted favorably. 
Governor Brimmer pointed out, however, that anyone 
f 
could qualify as a bank customer by opening a minor account. 
Mr. Clausen said one of the remaining points of concern to the 
Council was the question of equity investments, which the proposed 
regulation would limit to community rehabilitation and development 
corporations engaged in providing housing and employment opportunities 
for low and moderate income persons. 
At present, national banks were 
Permitted to make equity investments in companies to which they lent 

3 G G 
2/5/71 
-19-
money if the loan would be credit-worthy even without the equity. 
The discussion then turned to a question regarding which 
the Board had expressed particular interest in the views of the 
Council, namely, the proposed treatment of goodwill in financial 
statements. 
The Board's staff had proposed that goodwill be charged 
off, in accordance with the practice heretofore followed with respect 
to banks but contrary to generally accepted accounting principles as 
applied to businesses generally. 
Members of the Council commented on the problem that would 
be involved in submitting reports to the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission and to shareholders that customarily included goodwill, while 
reporting differently to the Board under the proposed registration 
statement. 
Confusion and lack of confidence could be engendered, 
particularly if the statements submitted to the Board became public, 
which was not outside the realm of possibility. 
There was also the 
question of judgment. 
If the Board required a writeoff of goodwill, 
even though it had approved an acquisition the terms of which included 
a cash payment for goodwill, it would be in effect substituting its 
judgment for that of management. 
As a possible compromise, some members of the Council suggested 
that the financial statements submitted to the Board be in the same 
form as submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission and to 
stockholders, but with a supplement containing adjustments called for 
under the Board's rules. 

3 5 7 
2/5/71 
-20-
After further comments and suggestions regarding various pro-
visions of the proposed regulation, President Meyer referred to a 
possibility, suggested earlier, of selecting a group of three or four 
Council members who could meet with the Board and its staff to consider 
some of the questions involved in more detail. 
The Council expressed 
willingness to follow such a procedure if the Board would find it helpful. 
Chairman Burns expressed the Board's appreciation of the offer. 
In his view the new legislation was tremendously important not only to 
the banking system but to the national economy. 
The powers it granted 
could be used wisely or unwisely. 
If the Board should seem to be 
overly restrictive on some points, that was because it recognized the 
potential hazards of acting too hastily. 
It was again stated that the Board would appreciate any written 
comments members of the Council cared to send in, and it was understood 
that such comments would be forthcoming. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Federal Advisory 
Council would be held on May 6-7, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
