MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 21, 1971 

3 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
Sy stem on Tuesday, December 21, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon,' Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1J 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
^°pies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
• 
• Cac-uab* C . Y)"ii, i i'h*. 
U-tHt m 
: iJtivnul i i3 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual brief-
'iorl * j\ i'.,.:;.. »tWw 
York, 
ru io ;>,cqu.i; 
<.;;uires S
and a memorandum from the Capital Markets Section reviewing stock 
^Wfecdjor by forger Co f;.; yr.au 
;.<«u«U nank, Mvii?:** tt'W Y&rk'. 
"^rket and margin credit developments. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Board 
:n • H 
riuot. s ii 
• 
r- . 
Presently being considered by the Congress, following which those who 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

IW)2 
12/21/71 
-2-
and the following entered: 
had attended the meeting for the purpose of the economic review withdrew 
i 
yf n- 
, 
. • ..... > .,n<« 
' , 
. j 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
v 
i 
Regulation 
Mr. Wood, Assistant to the Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Other appropriate members of the staff 
Consent calendar. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
i 
Gctirig approval on December 7, 1971, of the application of Chemical 
Ne 'wi 
w York Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the 
suca 
Cessor by merger to Tappan Zee National Bank, Nyack, New York. 
Attiii, 
cned under Item No. 1 is a copy of the order, along with a copy 
Of Q vernor Robertson's dissenting statement. 

12/21/71 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved an application by Barnett Banks 
Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of Barnett 
Bank of Brandon, National Association, Brandon, Florida, a proposed 
new bank, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved (1) the application of Harris 
Bankcorp, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, to become a bank holding company 
vhrough the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to Harris 
Trust and Savings Bank, also of Chicago; (2) the application of HTS 
Bank, Chicago, Illinois, an organizing State bank, to merge Harris 
• r u s t and Savings Bank; and (3) the application of HTS Bank for member-
in the Federal Reserve System. The Board also authorized the 
Suance of orders reflecting approval of the holding company and 
J^ger applications. Copies are attached as Items 3 and 4. A copy 
Of J-L 
ne letter approving the membership application is attached as 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Euro-dollars. 
In a memorandum of December 20, 1971, the Division 
of j 
Vv ernational Finance set forth a number of elements the Board might 
Wish tn consider for and against a possible reduction in the present 
reserv 
requirement on Euro-dollar borrowings. 
Discussion indicated a general disposition to defer consideration, 
eSpec• , 
- 
aiJ-y in light of the expectation that in the near future there 
is 

3 4 C 4 
12/21/71 
-4-
w°uld be available a review by the staff, as requested at the meeting 
on December 15, 1971, of the over-all question of the usefulness of 
reserve requirements on Euro-dollar borrowings. 
The Board thereupon deferred consideration of reserve 
requirements on Euro-dollar borrowings until a later meeting. 
Simplified procedures. Pursuant to the discussion at the 
Board meeting on December 10, 1971, the Legal Division had distributed 
to Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer a draft notice 
Proposed rule making regarding the simplified procedures in sec-
225.4(b)(3) of Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies. Governor 
iselchad suggested that the proposal be expanded so that the Board 
Would 
t- u 
n o t be required to grant any request for a hearing in connection 
th a holding company's proposal to engage de novo in activities that 
the 
Board has determined to be permissible under section 4(c)(8) of 
th^'Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum from the Legal Division dated December 15, 1971, 
W a s noted that expanding the proposal along the lines suggested by 
Goyernor m • 
Maisel would eliminate the need for a hearing examiner in de 
cases, and that an incidental effect might be to further encourage 
holdi 
ompaniesito engage in nonbanking activities de novo rather 
^ trough acquisition. . 
overnor Brimmer had indicated that he was inclined to favor 
Maisel1s^suggested revisions, but he recommended that the matter 

3 4 9 5 
- ! M,> i'1 ' | ! 
! 
( »„•• ,/; f • 
:, . 
acquisition of permissible activities. Governor Robertson 
• 
; . J - •:.)•'.:' .T( :. C • L v; : 
• i \ ; ; 
' 
12/21/71 
-5-
be acted upon formally by the Board, because the revision would con-
stitute a change in the substance of the proposal agreed upon by the 
B°ard on December 10. A draft notice of proposed rule making incorpo-
rating Governor Maisel's suggestions was attached to the December 15 
memorandum. With a memorandum from the Legal Division dated Decem-
20, a revised draft notice had been distributed. 
At today's meeting various portions of the revised draft notice 
were di scussed, including Governor Maisel's proposal with respect to 
he 
arings and the type of information that holding companies should be 
Squired to include in public notices and notifications to Reserve 
Banks regarding 
f i 
(that the proposed changes in the "simplified procedures" would not 
°rrect their principal shortcomings. In his judgment, a holding com-
P a n y should not be free to engage in additional activities (such as 
C<^u^sition of existing consumer finance companies in its own State and 
States) without giving prior notice to the affected public and to 
Federal Reserve System, or opportunity to protest and request a 
earing, a s w o y ^ be permitted by these regulations. Other members of 
Board also expressed some reservations and a number of changes in 
Vprdi 
• 
of the notice were agreed upon. 
Thereupon publication of the notice was authorized, Governor 
^ertson dissenting. A copy of the notice published in the Federal 
Repj„. 
C e r is attached under Item No. 6, along with the press release 
iss^ed. 

3 4 8 6 
12/21/71 
-6-
Report on competitive factors. Subsequent to the discussion 
a t the meeting on December 16, 1971, Governor Maisel had suggested 
the incorporation of additional language in the body of a draft report 
to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive factors involved 
l n the proposed merger of Trenton Trust Company, Trenton, New Jersey, 
into The National State Bank, Elizabeth, N. J., Elizabeth, New Jersey. 
It was agreed that the report would be revised as suggested 
and transmitted to the Comptroller in a form in which the conclusion 
r e a d as follows: 
There is little competition presently existing between 
Trenton Trust Company and The National State Bank of Elizabeth, 
although there is some potential for competition between them. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposal is slightly 
-adverse. 
7 °ugh they did not dissent from this action, Governors Robertson 
laisel preferred to describe the competitive effect as adverse. 
Report on Truth in Lending. After a brief discussion, the 
Unanimously approved an Annual Report on Truth in Lending for 
1971 >*fnr. „ 
^^transmittal to the Congress. 
(Note: The report was trans-
mitted t- -
c o the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of 
Presentatives o n J a n u a r y 3, 1972. A copy has been placed in the 
; 
A 1 ' , TV 
discount rat-P procedures. Attached to a memorandum from the 
<;°ffiCe of f-u 
jfche Secretary dated December 20, 1971, was a draft letter 
ffoin Cha1» -
l r m an Burns to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 

3 1 
12/21/71 
-7-
Suggesting a meeting of the Presidents with the members of the Board 
° n the general subject of procedures for setting new discount rates. 
Following a discussion during which several changes in the 
draft letter were suggested, approval was given to the transmittal of 
t h e letter in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Reserve Bank budgets. With a memorandum dated December 16, 
'^H/, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations presented its 
review of the proposed budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks and 
benches for the first half of 1972. Total controllable expenses were 
exPected to decrease by $1.1 million, or 0.6 per cent, with personnel 
C 0 S t s a s the major factor contributing to the leveling off of expendi-
tures. ^.11 Banks were budgeting increases in controllable operating 
exPenses, ranging from 1.1 per cent at New York to 7.7 per cent at 
anta. 
. 
. 
„ • . 
The Board had requested the Banks to forward with the proposed 
ud8ets plans for a 5 per cent reduction in employee positions during 
110 first half of 1972. The base for achieving the reduction was the 
UlUt>Gr o f full-time positions authorized by the Board in the budgets 
for n e second half of 1971. A 5 per cent reduction for all Banks and 
branch^ 
ies combined would result in a decrease of 1,061 positions at an 
ailnUaI Payroll savings of $9.3 million. 
The Division's analysis of the budgets indicated that in most 
cases f-u 
n e Banks had made a concerted effort to comply with the Board s 

3 4 9 8 
12/21/7! 
-8-
- '-t I i :• \ 
c°st control and employee reduction programs. Most of the budgeted 
lr*creases were tied to high priority System projects. 
Provision had been made for the Board to consider exempting 
Selected positions to achieve announced System policy objectives of 
a high priority or increases needed to meet critical or unusual cir-
J 
cumstances. The Banks had requested exemptions for 515 positions 
— on this criteria, and the largest single activity for which 
exemptions had been requested was the planning and establishment of 
regional check clearing centers. It was noted that the Treasury 
^Partment and the Board had put into effect new procedures for cur-
ei*cy cancellation, verification, and destruction activities, and 
' '•< 5 * '£V.C..V:;1 \ 
. j>. t th« 
( 'i\t ir.»»i<:uj.,'-.t tOi lo lof L" 
•• ' • 
rat exemptions must be granted for any added staff positions neces-
a r y t o carry out those procedures. If all exemptions were approved, 
. 
^t^-ii..l:, un\ > 
r*;) af. i.v «11,•..- • 
?>*<; '>y 
'.--v ftos ?<> . 
the net effect would be a reduction of 546 positions, or 2.6 per cent. 
... 
•. 
I 
' 1. 
i • •>. ifm •. is t. jj t C • • • • 
The Division had reviewed the requested exemptions with the 
oftpittee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans and 
> "tended disapproval or deferment of 182 positions, most of which 
Were •associated with the implementation of regional check clearing 
arrangements. 
' uic. 
After a brief discussion, the budgets of the respective 
R e s e r v e 
d 
c tsanks for the first six months of 1972 were accepted, subject 
to t-K 
\v e m°difications recommended with respect to requested exemptions. 
It 
understood that the Banks would be so advised. A copy of the 

3 1 9 9 
! 
, m 
12/21/71 
-9-
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston is attached as 
'•'U.hu: .. 
-^^gm No. 8. Similar letters, reflecting variations for individual 
Districts, were sent to the other Reserve Banks. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
i» - > i 
H ? JjU" a • 
.}• ' • 
^elnicoff, Smith, O'Connell, Johnson, Burke, and Wood. 
^I'JLdiial v-di ; ' ••. /•> ).JV.? 
• • 
. 
w;»; , 
Salary guidelines. Consideration was given to a request by 
^ 
feu 
.. 
federal Reserve Bank Presidents to relax the 5 per cent standard for 
increases in total officer salaries and nonofficer salaries contained 
l n the Board's letter of November 18, 1971. In a memorandum dated 
T\ 
ecember 17, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building 
" ' 
.• J. . 
\ ' v <' .* • r : . • 
ans recommended that the 5 per cent standard for nonofficer staff 
• 
• 
. 
.. v 
U s i h r 
raised to 5-1/2 per cent in line with the prospective Government 
V4 
i;,» ;! 
P a y increase and the relative increases granted by the Pay Board. 
•i. avu J. 
Gov 
After discussion the recommendation was approved, although 
ernors Robertson and Brimmer were opposed to any general relaxation 
the 5 per cent standard. A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve 
Hi k f 
Bank 
eh 
s Pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 9. 
Chairman Burns suggested that an appropriate letter be sent 
• the Federal Reserve Banks reaffirming the Board's position with 
res 
Pect to implementation of salary guidelines under Phase II of the 
resident's econom-£c program. A copy of the letter is attached as 
^ S L N o . i o . 
•.• ' * » J t... . 
" ' ' 
•! 
• • 
• 
: ., 
< 
f 
• • r ' . 

35( 
12/21/71 
-10-
All staff members except Messrs. Holland and Burke then 
withdrew. 
Reserve Bank officer salaries. Governor Maisel explained that 
the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans 
had given consideration to three particular questions concerning 
individual Federal Reserve Bank officer salary proposals on which it 
W a s felt an expression of Board view would be desirable. 
The Board of Directors of the Philadelphia Reserve Bank had 
that President Eastburn be given a $6,000 increase in annual 
salary rather than the $3,000 increase that had been suggested by the 
Committee as appropriate. The New York Reserve Bank had made a special 
aPpeal f o r approval of a $5,000 increase in the salary of First Vice 
resident Treiber, rather than the unchanged salary that the Committee 
^ favored. The Board of Directors of the Cleveland Reserve Bank had 
f>r°Posed a $3,500 increase in the annual salary of First Vice President 
acfroriald, while the Committee believed that a $1,500 increase in his 
nnual salary was more appropriate in light of the earlier salary 
anges affecting him and other Reserve Bank officers. 
After discussion, the Board indicated its agreement with each 
the above three positions expressed by the Committee. 
The annual salary rates approved by the Board for the Presidents 
and p,-
r s t Vice Presidents of the respective Reserve Banks, effective 
U a r y 
1972, are reflected in letters sent subsequent to this 

3 5 o : 
12/21/71 
-11-
meeting to the Chairmen of the respective Banks. Copies of those 
letters are attached as Items 11 through 22, inclusive. 
Governor Maisel also indicated that the proposals for salaries 
all other Reserve Bank officers, as outlined in the Committee's 
memorandum of December 20, 1971, were regarded as appropriate except 
that the Committee intended to negotiate with the Kansas City Reserve 
Bank to reduce its aggregate increase in officer salaries to effect 
a c Per cent increase or slightly lower. The Board indicated its 
• •••.• ^.II-VI % ^ .I 
( : 
. 
; 
• 
>1, 
. . . 
T, 
. . . . 
_ -. 
- ,. 
.. 
^££eement with this position. 
The annual salary rates approved by the Board for officers 
°ther than the Presidents and First Vice Presidents of the respective 
Re 
serve Banks, effective January 1, 1972, are reflected in letters 
Sent subsequent to this meeting to the respective Banks. Copies of 
thry • i ' 
letters are attached as Items 23 through 34, inclusive. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
n r 0 A 
12/21/71 
O O U < C 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CHEMICAL NEW YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the 
A ct (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by merger 
t o the Tappan Zee National Bank, Nyack, New York ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
i 
e*cept as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor 
Or8anization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of 
Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with section 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing 
c°nHnents and views has expired. The Board has considered the appli-
Cation and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
i n section 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in New 
York u 
nas one subsidiary bank controlling total domestic deposits of 
$7 g 
billion, representing 8.6 per cent of total deposits held by 
c°mm( 
X970 
°mrnercial banks in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 
» adjusted to reflect holding company forinarions and acquisitions 

3 5 
-2-
aPProved through October 31, 1971.) Upon acquisition of Bank ($42 
Million deposits), Applicant's share of deposits in the State would 
increase by only .1 percentage points, and its present ranking would 
n o t change. Bank operates in the Rockland County banking market and is 
ctle fifth largest of seven banks located in the market, controlling 
10.6 n 
1/ 
Per cent of market deposits. 
Applicant's subsidiary banking office closest to Bank is 
° C a t e d 8«2 miles east of Bank, in adjoining Westchester County and 
subsidiary is presently prohibited from branching into Rockland 
Utlty* 
D ue to the fact that the markets are separated geographically 
by 
e Hudson River, no meaningful existing competition would be 
nated by consummation of the proposal. 
Some potential competition between Applicant and Bank 
"^Sht h 
e foreclosed upon consummation of the proposal, since Appli-
cant c°uld enter Bank's market cle novo or through acquisition of a 
bank. However, neither alternative appears to be as desirable 
t0 APPlio 
^-cant since State law limits de novo bank expansion to two 
brat*ehes Per year (beginning one year after the date of charter) until 
1976> 
nd acquisition of a smaller bank would not offer Applicant 
^ inimgjj 
Aace opportunity for development of meaningful competition 
V l t h the 
^ 
G larger banks in the market. Applicant is paying a premium for 
^isition of Bank. However, such premium does not appear to be 
^ s i v e „ 
n°r does it appear that it is being paid for the purchase of 
power within the market. Rockland County is a dynamic economic 
n k i n8 data relating to size in the market are as of June 30, 1970. 

-3-
3 5 0 4 
area that promises to continue growing rapidly and, therefore, will be 
an attractive location for new banking organizations. Applicant's 
acquisition of Bank will not raise barriers to entry into the market 
b y °ther holding companies nor place Applicant in a dominant position 
the market. The presence of three of the largest banking organizations 
the State in Rockland County, and the number of potential entrants 
i n t 0 the market minimize the slightly adverse competitive effect of 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank. Based upon the foregoing, the Board 
^inds that consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effects on 
listing competition and no significant adverse effect on potential 
competition. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and Bank 
are t> 
generally satisfactory, and consistent with approval. Although there 
no evidence that significant banking needs of the communities involved 
a t e going unserved, Bank, as a result of its affiliation with Applicant, 
Wixx 
Provide installment loans at lower rates, will have a larger lending 
limit a a 
an« will provide the community with an alternative source of 
^ecializecj banking services. Accordingly, considerations relating 
convenience and needs of the community lend some weight toward approval. 
* is 
Public 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
^e r e asons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) b 
o r e the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or 
' later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
8llch 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Hes*tve * , 
flank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 

3505 
-4-
Upon the consummation of the proposed transaction, Applicant 
not retain or acquire any nonbank shares or engage in any nonbanking 
activities to a greater extent or for a longer period than would apply 
^ e case of a bank holding company which became such on the date of 
Uch consummation, except to the extent otherwise permitted in any 
Elation of the Board hereafter adopted specifically relating to the 
ffect of the acquisition of an additional bank on the status of nonbank 
®hate<5 and activities of a one-bank holding company formed prior to 1971, 
Of 
n 
s the Board fails to adopt any such regulation before the expiration 
of t 
years after the consummation of the proposed acquisition. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tsBAL[ 
H a t i n g 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Brimmer. Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 

3506 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Tappan Zee National, with deposits of $42 million is the 
second largest of the three banks in Rockland County that are not 
affiliated with a New York City-based holding company. 
(Another 
N e w Y o r k City holding company has on file with the Board an appli-
Cation to acquire the largest, which is being held in abeyance pending 
the decision of the New York State Banking Board on its motion for 
- 
. 
j 
^consideration of the Banking Board's earlier denial.) Consummation 
o f the instant proposal will result in New York City-based holding 
ifi 
• < 
COlapanies controlling 54 per cent of market deposits. 
Over the last 10 years» the population of Rockland County 
*ncreased 68 per cent, the second fastest growth rate in the 
p.. 
a t e, and it is projected that it will continue to be one of the 
fastest growing areas in the State. The dynamic growth of Rockland 
Gou 
n t y makes it one of the most attractive areas for de novo ' 
entry. 
Applicant is one of the most likely potential entrants 
into thi 
na-s market. Its entry could be accomplished de novo or through 
the 
acquisition of a smaller independent bank in the third banking 
strict (which includes Rockland County) which could then branch 
0 dockland County. Such an entry might be procompetitive, but 
Summation of this proposal would be anticompetitive because it 
^ ^ ^ i n a t e potential competition between Applicant and Bank. 

3 5 o 7 
-2-
Furthermore, Applicant's acquisition of Bank would remove a means 
foothold entry for the newer New York holding companies, which 
lack Applicant's advantages of size and location for successful 
fe novo entry, and which probably could not afford to pay the huge 
Premium of over $3,000,000 (or around 8 per cent of Bank's deposits) 
• 
which is being paid to Bank's shareholders. 
Obviously it is easier for an institution the size of 
Ghemical to obtain entry into this market through the acquisition 
0 
a going concern, like Bank with its seven offices in Rockland 
County, even at such a high price, than to enter de novo through 
t h e establishment of a new bank, but it is the public interest 
^ich must be considered controlling—not Chemical's interest. 
Since the acquisition of Bank would foreclose the substantial 
ilcelihood of Applicant being an additional competitor in the market 
» further, since it would deprive those organizations less able to 
exPand h novo of the opportunity to acquire a vehicle through which 
e y mi8ht achieve a market position, the effect on competition would 
Averse, and should not be approved in the absence of positive 
henefit. 
c s to the public that outweigh the adverse factor. 
Applicant proposes to make additional services available 
Bank.. However, the evidence on the record indicates that the 
Pteq 
banking needs of the community are presently being met by the 
"U^tit utions in the market. Even more importantly, all the alleged 

benefits could be provided in more competitive ways. Consequently * 
they should not be considered as outweighing the anticompetitive 
effects of the acquisition. 
I would deny the application. 

Item No, 
12/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act» has applied for the Board's prior approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
voting 
shares of Barnett Bank of Brandon, National Association, Brandon, 
F l oUda ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
n<i view9 has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a U 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
°f ^ e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 29 banks with aggregate deposits of 
r°ximately $881 million, representing 6.0 per cent of the total 
^tcial bank deposits in the State and is the third largest banking 
f i x a t i o n in Florida. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, 
and r e f l 
riect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
a through November 30, 1971.) Since Bank is a proposed new bank, 
9cquiain 
iClon of it by Applicant would not change Applicant's rank or 
acage share of deposits. 
Bank will be located in a growing residential area 10 miles 
eaat o f 
Tampa. Although Applicant presently has one subsidiary bank 
^ U b o r o u g h County (in which Tampa is located), this subsidiary has 

3 5 1 0 
-2-
° n l y 1 Per cent of county deposits and does not draw a significant 
a&ount of business from the proposed service area of Bank. (Since 
Applicant has such a small share of deposits in Hillsborough County, 
Bank is a proposed new bank, there is no question of Applicant 
Gaining a dominant position in the area.) There is presently only 
n e other bank located in Bank's proposed service area so that approval 
f the application should have beneficial effects on competition by 
Providing a n alternative source of banking services. On the basis of 
the » 
ecord before it, the Board concludes that consummation of the pro-
POSQd 
acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any relevant 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Of A 
P leant, its subsidiaries, and Bank appear to be satisfactory and 
c°nsiaf 
with approval of the application. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend some 
We*ght 
oward approval of the application since, as mentioned above, 
Pening 0f Bank will provide a new competitor in an area where 
6Serit:ly th«re is only one bank. 
°n the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
te 
0 n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
bef 
° r e t h e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
Of 
^ 
*ater than three months after the date of this Order; and 
^ 
Bnrn t Bank of Brandon, National Association, shall be opened 

3 5 1 1 
-3-
business not later than six months after the date of this Order. 
Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good 
C a u s e by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant 
t o delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
^ Voti 
Mitch n ® 
t*1*"s action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
e 
Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Robertson, 
\ : > 

Item No. 3 ^
^ 
0 
12/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HARRIS BANKCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Harris Bankcorp, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, has applied for 
t h e Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent or more of the voting shares (less directors1 
^alifying shares) of the successor by merger to Harris Trust and 
Sav*ngs Bank, Chicago, Illinois ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the 
Proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accord ance with g 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and vi 
G W s h a s expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a n C q 
onunents received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of 
e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation formed for the 
Pu*Pose o f K oecoming a bank holding company. Bank, with deposits of 
U 
b i m 
as of June 30, 1971, is the third largest bank in the 
City of 
cant 
Chicago and the State of Illinois. 
inasmuch as the proposal constitutes a corporate reorgani-
atld re^lects no expansion of corporate interests or signifi-
^an8e i n t h e character of the banking facilities involved, 

3 5 1 
-2-
c°nsummation of the proposal would eliminate neither existing nor 
Potential competition, nor does it appear that there would be any 
Averse effects on any bank in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
applicant and Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory and con-
8istent with approval of the application. The convenience and needs 
Of 
ne communities involved would not be immediately affected by 
^summation of this proposal but improved services may be provided 
n the future under the more flexible corporate structure of the 
cldlng company. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction 
be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
aPptoved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the 
°ns summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve R 
sank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
r» 
O 
or 
such 
Tynan Smith 
tsEAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
i'Voti 
^ t c h e ^ g f° r t h i a 
action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
> Daane, Haisel, and Brimmer. 

3 5 1 4 
Item No. 4 
12/21/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HTS BANK 
Order Approving Merger of Banks 
HTS Bank, a proposed member State bank of the Federal 
T>_ serve System, has applied pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 
l820(c))j f o r th e Board's prior approval to merge with Harris Trust 
— „ , 
i 
' 
• 
a n d Savings Bank, Chicago, Illinois, under the charter of the former 
and the name of the latter. Notice of the proposed merger, in form 
approved by the Board, has been published as required by said Act. 
In accordance with the Act, the Board requested reports on 
°topetitive factors involved from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
of tL 
e Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
Board h 
"as considered all relevant material contained in the record in 
h e Ught of the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
feasor 
the 
e reasons summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to 
application of Harris Bankcorp, Inc. to become a bank holding com-
pany 
» Provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
t h lrti Qm 
n calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than 
ft 
three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
er 
Chi 
e*tended f 
•cor good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
°a6o pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
December 21, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
[SEAn 
Secretary of the Board 
l^tchei]^ 
t h i s action. Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
> Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 

/^OT-Go.y • . 
j G S I N ^ 
mmmw". 
W M m £ l t ! : 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
3515 
Item No. 5 
12/21/73, 
AOOREUS OFFICIAL CtlHRCSfDNDENCl 
Tt) THC BOARD 
December 21, 1971 
Hoard of Directors 
1!'-TS Bank 
Chicago, Illinois 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of UTS Bank, Chicago, Illinois, for 
Ktock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made ir. the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership 
• 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the under-
l i n g that. UTS Bank will not conduct a banking business with 
- public until it has merged with Harris Trust and Savings 
nul<> Chicago, Illinois. 
t 
slvi 
XP, 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of member-
T 
- - Particular attention is called to the provisions 
Sard's 
„ 
,, 
of the 
s 
• 
Rfc&ulation II, regarding membership of State banking 
f_ dilutions in the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference 
to action 208.7 thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

B O A R D 
EIF GOVERNLIR'J OK THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3 5 1 
Board of Directors 
-2-
If at any time n change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made,- the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of suc.h resolution should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
i s limited to GO days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount .of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

Item No. 6 
12/21/71 
for immediate release 
December 22, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Proposed further revisions of its rules permitting bank holding corn-
Panics to make de novo entry into activities closely related to 
banking and to acquire small finance companies. 
Under the proposal, the Board would determine that, with 
respect to activities it has designated as closely related to banking, 
Gr*try by a bank holding company through a new subsidiary—rather than 
by 
acquiring companies already engaged in those activities--is likely 
t o produce benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects 
Consequently, 
there would be no necessity for a hearing in such cases 
except when the Board, in its discretion, determined the need for one. 
The only bank-related activity to which the proposed procedure 
for de novo entry would not be applicable is the sale of insurance in 
a community that the holding company demonstrates has inadequate in- . 
8utnnce agency facilities at the present time. 
A bank holding company may now acquire a finance company with 
assets of less than $10 million without prior notification to its 
Reserve Bank. Such notification is required within 30 days after the 
transaction. The proposal would require the holding company also to 
Polish in a newspaper in the communities to be served notice of such 
acquisition within 30 days of the transaction. Under the proposal, 
holding companies may acquire small finance companies that make 

3518 
-2-
crcdit life or credit disability insurance available to their borrowers 
through a group insurance policy issued to the finance company. 
The Board also suspended its existing simplified procedures 
Pending consideration of the proposed changes in its regulation. 
Comments on the proposal should be submitted to the Board by 
ruary 1, 1972. 
Feb 
, : : 
, V 
,ad,: "bv 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
, ... i : , , 
i 
... • 
: « f> . 
- 0 -
-C.!; i f 
' 
. 
, 
t.fc<* 
pri 

3 5 1 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 225] 
[Reg. Y] 
BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Procedures for Engaging in Certain Nonbanking Activities 
Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act provides, 
atn°r.g other things, that determinations that activities are closely 
rQlated to banking may be made "by order or regulation" and that the 
**°ard may differentiate between activities commenced de novo and 
activities commenced by the acquisition of a going concern. 
Pursuant to these provisions and the provisions of § 5 
the Act, the Board initiated a rulemaking proceeding. Notice of 
proposed rulemaking was published in the Federal Register on 
anuary 29, 1971, and public hearings on the proposals were held 
W o r e members of the Board on April 14, April 16, and May 12, 1971. 
Af t-
full consideration of all comments and views presented by 
*nterested persons, the Board adopted amendments to Regulation Y on 
1IaV 20, June 10, August 5, and August 19, 1971. 
By the May 20 amendments, the Board adopted procedures under 
7^ich holding companies may engage in activities that the Board has 
j 
termined to be closely related to banking. With respect to an 
activity to be engaged in de novo, a holding company (1) must publish 
tl°tice of a proposed activity in a local newspaper, (2) within 30 days 
Publication, must furnish the appropriate Reserve Bank with copies 

3 5 2 0 
- 2 -
o f said notice, and (3) 45 days after furnishing said information to 
Baid Reserve Bank, may engage in the proposed de novo activity unless 
^ e holding company is notified to the contrary within that time or 
unless permitted to consummate at an earlier date. Where an acquisi-
tion of a going concern is involved, the holding company must file a 
f 
ormal application and await Board consideration of the public interest 
asPects of the transaction, namely, a Board determination whether the 
Proposed acquisition can reasonably be expected to produce benefits 
t° the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or 
Eains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as 
Ur*due concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
Cor*flicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. 
0' 
. 
• 
... 
.... 
.. • 
On August 19, 1971, the Board adopted simplified procedures 
^th respect to (1) operating a finance company with assets of less than 
million; (2) engaging in activities that are shifted from a bank to 
l t s holding company or an affiliated subsidiary in the holding company 
^tem,; and (3) engaging in certain insurance agency activities. 
As a result of its continuing review of Regulation Y, the 
Boarj 
u proposes to amend its procedures regarding activities authorized 
U(iGr § 4(c)(8) of the Act. The proposals herein are based on the 
and written presentations made in connection with the Board's 
iemaking proceeding (including the hearings on April 14, April 16, 
M ay 12) and the Board's experience under the regulatory provisions 
resulted from that rulemaking proceeding. 

~ 3 -
In view of the extensive consideration given to the 
Public interest factors of holding companies engaging in bank related 
activities, the Board believes that, with respect to the designated 
activities, de novo entry by a bank holding company can reasonably 
SjJ 
0 expected to produce benefits to the public and that such benefits 
a n reasonably be expected to outweigh possible adverse effects within 
thle meaning of § 4(c)(3) of the Act. Accordingly, the Board believes 
that a regulation providing procedures for de novo entry by a holding 
Cot^pany into such activities, without the necessity for further oppor-
tunity for hearing, is warranted. Adoption of the proposal herein 
W o u l d niean that de novo entry into any of the activities specified in 
^ 225.4(a) (except § 225.4(a)(9)(iii)(b)) may be consummated under 
. jfjbi J 
G Proposed procedures without any further opportunity for hearing. 
n ... 
°Wever, the Board in its discretion, may afford interested persons 
a u 
'earing, whenever the Board finds that the circumstances of a par-
ticular matter so warrant. 
•tit Ki-
ln connection with finance companies, the proposal incor-
p°rates the simplified procedures which the Board adopted on August 19, 
with the following modifications: 
(a) The holding company must publish notice of the acquisi-
tion* 1 
n within 30 days after consummation of the transaction, and 
(b) A finance company whose insurance involvement is limited 
to 
llf 
taking available to its borrowers (at each borrower's option) credit 
e and/or credit disability insurance covering the balance on the 

MA: 
- 4 -
borrower's debt, through a group insurance policy in which the finance 
company is the assured policyholder, may be acquired under the proposed 
simplified procedures. 
With respect to the shifting of activities to a collateral 
f i l i a t e or a parent holding company, the proposal makes no substantial 
change i n the current provisions of subparagraph 225.4(b)(3)(i)(b). 
Pending consideration of the proposals herein, the Board has 
SusPended the operation of § 225.4(b)(3) of Regulation Y until further 
notj.Ce> 
hoi.-j; , 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
ntcrested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or argu-
ments 
• *ny such material should be submitted in writing to the Secre-
c y . Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
C 
• ^0551, to be received not later than February 1, 1972. Such 
iHater^ i 
aJ- will be made available for inspection and copying upon request, 
eXcent 
as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Regarding Avail-
a b i U t y of Information. 
Under the proposal, § 225.4 of Regulation Y would be amended 
as 
18 foil, 
Lows: 
If 
1. The fourth sentence of the opening portion of § 225.4(a), 
nS with the words "The following activities" and ending with the 
*irst 
colon, would be replaced by the following sentences: 
§ 225 A 
Monbanking activities, 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
* * * With respect to the activities designated 
» cne Board liao determined that de novo entry by a bank holding 

3 5 2 3 
- 5 -
company can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the public 
and that such benefits can reasonably be expected to outweigh possible 
adverse effects within the meaning of § 4(c)(8) of the Act except 
that, with respect to the activities in § 225.4(a)(9)(iii) (b) , the 
has determined only that the activities are closely related to 
inking. Accordingly, the procedures of § 225.4(b)(1) are prescribed 
c 
° r 
novo entry into the designated activities. With respect to the 
of a going concern, the Board has concluded that the acti-
vities designated below are closely related to banking but the bank 
hiding company must await a Board determination whether the proposed 
ac<iuisition 
can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the 
P ubHc that outweigh possible adverse effects within the meaning of 
§ A(c)(8) 0f t h e A c t # 
Accordingly, the procedures of § 225.4(b)(2) 
prescribed for the acquisition of a going concern. 
2. Section 225.4(b)(1) and (3) would read as follows: 
i n 
. . . . . . 
. ,, . 
• . 
' 
; 
/ 
••••.:;.-
(b) (1) De novo entry. A bank holding company may engage 
cIq J 
•• 
^ -evo^ (or continue to engage in an activity earlier commenced de novo) 
dir 
• 
. 
' 
... ctly o r indirectly, solely in activities described in paragraph (a) 
;.., 
section (except insurance agency activities under subparagraph 
H 
' (iii)(b)) 45 days after the holding company has informed its 
. 8erve Bank of its proposal to engage in such activity, unless the 
COfojj- 
• 1 ' • ' 
' ' 
pany i s notifieci to the contrary within that time or is permitted 
. "nsummate the transaction at an earlier date. Every such notifi-
es-, 
' ' • ;
• 
•i r-
. 
n shall be accompanied by a copy of a publication (in substantially 
the * 
... 
form as F.R. Y-4A) of the proposal to engage in the activities 

3 5 2 4 
- 6 -
Published within the preceding 30 days in a newspaper(s) of general cir-
culation in the communities to be served. Such notification to the Reserve 
fiank shall provide information as to the general nature and extent of the 
activities to be engaged in. IJhenever necessary to effectuate the pur-
Poses of the Act, the Board may require suspension or discontinuation of 
any action taken, or divestiture of any interest acquired, on the 
authority of thi3 provision, and may withdraw such authority with 
Aspect to any particular holding company. The Board has determined 
that (with the exception noted above) the activities described in 
Paragraph (a) are so closely related to banking as to be a proper 
incident thereto and that de novo entry into said activities can 
reas°nably be expected to produce benefits to the public that outweigh 
Possible adverse effects within the meaning of § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Accordingly, unless the Board at its discretion affords interested 
Persons an opportunity to present further oral or written views or data 
orders a hearing, a transaction may be consummated under this sub-
Paragraph 
without any further notice or opportunity for hearing. If 
adverse comments of a substantive nature are received by the Reserve 
^ank within 30 days after the company has published its proposall/ or, 
it otherwise appears appropriate in a particular case, the Reserve 
n k rnay inform the company that (i) the proposal shall not be consummated 
7t ^ 
a R e s e r v o B a n k decides that adverse comments are not of a sub-
by ntive nature, the person submitting the comments may request review 
§ 2r 
Board of that, decision in accprdance with the provisions of 
265 
° f t h e C o a r d ' Q ^ l e s Regarding Delegation of Authority (12 CFR 
•3) by filing a petition for review with the Secretary of the Board. 

- 7 -
until specifically authorized by the Reserve Bank or by the Board 
° r (ii) the proposal should be processed in accordance with the pro-
c u r e s of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph (b). A bank holding 
'U >J,; " 
company may engage dci novo in insurance agency activities under sub-
paragraph (a) (9) (iii) (b) only in accordance with the procedures of 
Suhparagraph (2) of this paragraph (b). 
* * v< 
•<•' f , . 
(3) Simplified procedures. The procedures of subparagraphs 
and (2) of this paragraph (b) shall not apply with respect to a 
h°ldi.ng company or a subsidiary thereof engaging in the following: 
(i) making, acquiring, or servicing loans or other exten-
sions of credit for personal, family, or household purposes, Provided, 
Th 
a 
the commencement or expansion of such activity does not involve 
a n acquisition of assets of $10 million or more (or the acquisition 
o f shares of a company having such assets) and incidental insurance 
activities are limited to the making available to a borrower, at the 
Grower's option, credit life insurance^/ and/or credit disability 
Surance3/ on a group basis under which the creditor is issued a group 
aGter policy as a policyholder and the borrower receives a certificate 
^ — -
life insurance insures the creditor against loss in case of 
c
 
1 of a borrower. The amount of insurance may be constant or de-
a 8i nC depending upon whether the loan is to be repaid in one payment 
3 / > - in an instalment contract, in a series of payments. 
re<lit disability insurance insures the creditor against loss re-
n£ from a borrower's inability to make instalment payments when 
f disabled. This type of insurance is sometimes called "accident 
n d health". 

3526 
- 8 -
-P.. 
• 
v 
0 
insurance evidencing his coverage and stating the principal pro-
visions of the group policy; except that (1) no holding company may 
acquire more than $50 million in assets in any calendar year under 
the provisions of this subdivision 225.4(b)(3)(i) , (2) within 30 days 
af t-
er the consummation of such an acquisition, the holding company 
shall inform its Reserve Bank of the acquisition, and every such 
n°tj-fication shall be accompanied by a copy of a notice of the acqui-
Si n o n published within the preceding 30 days in a newspaper(s) of 
O QV. 
^ 
» 
circulation in the communities to be served, and (3) whenever 
osary to effectuate the purposes of the Act, the Board may re-
e suspension or discontinuation of any action taken, or divesti-
ture of 
any acquisition made, on authority of this provision, and 
®ay wit-v^ 
Xl-naraw such authority with respect to any particular holding 
lPany; 
(ii) engaging in activities described in § 225.4(a) that are 
tGd from a bank in the holding company system and were engaged 
by 
t h 
ne bank either de novo or as a result of a merger transaction 
cc in and approved by a Federal supervisory agency pursuant to 
° n 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), 
d 
ys after the holding company has informed its Reserve Bank of its 
M o p 0 s , 
1 to shift such activity, unless the company is notified to the 
°ontr 
r y within that time or is permitted to consummate the transaction 
e arli e r date. Such notification shall provide information 
• 
V V 
- ' V - . 
• 
• • 

3 5 2 7 
- 9 -
a s to the general nature and extent of the activities to be shifted 
the locations involved. Whenever necessary to effectuate the pur-
Posqs of the Act, the Board may require suspension or discontinuation 
any action taken, or divestiture of any interest acquired, on 
authority of this provisionr and may withdraw such authority with 
Aspect to any particular holding company. 
By order of the Board of Governors, December 21, 1971. 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
J 

'Al Rt^ 
Item No. 7 
^ C O O 
12/21/71 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
December 21, 1971 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
Perhaps the most complicated mechanism for decision-
making within the Federal Reserve System is that associated with 
the establishment of a new discount rate. I know that you and your 
fellow Presidents as well as the members of the Board have given 
much thought over the years to the procedures involved in a dis-
count action. 
On the whole, I would judge that our procedures have 
Worked reasonably well, but there are also some problems that 
"eed to be discussed within our Federal Reserve family. I think 
would be a good idea for the Presidents and the members of the 
Board to have an interchange of views on this general subject in 
the relatively near future, and I would like to suggest a joint 
meeting for that purpose in the afternoon following the mid-
January meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. Schedule 
conflicts may necessitate a later meeting, but in any event I 
hope you will give thought to the various considerations that are 
involved and to ways of reconciling any differences of opinion in 
the most harmonious fashion. 
Sincerely yours, 
(hi,;: 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

3 5 2 9 
BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
D F T H E 
Item No. 8 . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
' h v ; 
Frank E. Morris 
Resident 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
B°ston, Massachusetts 02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
p 
The Board has considered the proposed budget for the First 
l97?ral Reserve District as submitted with your letter of November 17, 
g 
The Board has decided to defer consideration of all Reserve 
tio p r o p o s a l s f o r additional employees associated with the implementa-
n e w regional clearing arrangements until such time as detailed 
inf 
by ° r m a t i°n with respect to anticipated volumes, employment breakdowns 
Job category, budgets, equipment requirements, etc., become 
Ac
 1 hie. All such proposals will be considered on an ad. hoc basis. 
p0g°rdinSly, the June 30, 1972, employment ceiling of 1,298 full-time 
be
 l t i o n s> excluding those in disadvantaged youth or EEO programs, has 
hei n
f
a P P r° V e d f o r t h e F i r s t District. 
In this regard, it would be 
r , 
^ ^ e Board could receive your employment status as of 
^ 
a n d June 30, 1972, on the same form as forwarded with your 
Set submission. 
C o n c 
In light of the recent telegram from the Treasury Department 
de
 
Grn*-nS certain modifications to the currency verification and 
Res Ucti-ori operation, it may be necessary in some instances for the 
sho -|Ve B a n^ s t 0 ac*d personnel for this purpose. All such additions 
to k 
b e included on line F. of the Employment Ceiling Progress Report 
f0o.e Submitted to the Board at the end of March and June, and a 
inm ? 
e xPlaining the additions necessary for this purpose should be 
C i u ded i n t h e 
f o r m . 

Mr. Frank E. Morris 
-2-
The Board accepts the budget for your District subject to 
the above modifications and with the understanding that personnel 
costs for the first half of 1972 fully reflect the effects of (a) the 
^ per cent employment reduction program as modified by the agreed 
uPon exempted positions, and (b) the wage increase guidelines under 
the Phase II program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

3 5 3 1 
orco; •.. 
BDARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 ^COO 
12/21/71 
•MTre^: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R H E 3 P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
January 7, 1972 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Since establishing guidelines for the administration of 
wage and salary programs during Phase II of the Economic Stabili-
zation Program, the Board of Governors has made a special effort 
to keep fully informed of related developments. Recent interpre-
tations and rulings as well as the pay raise recently enacted for 
Federal government employees required the Board to consider the 
equity of the salary increase standard contained in its November 18 
guidelines. After due consideration, the Board of Governors has 
aPproved the revision of the aggregate salary increase standard 
from 5 to 5.5 percent for nonofficials. 
The Board acknowledges the cooperative spirit shown by 
the Banks during this initial period and looks for continuation 
this cooperation in the administration of compensation programs 
in strict accordance with the November 18 guidelines and subsequent 
interpretations by the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans. 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
s 
CO; 
TO THE PRESIDENTS AND CHAIRMEN OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3532 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 27, 1971 
Frank E. Morris, President 
federal Reserve .Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 • 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
Due to the many questions raised by the Federal Reserve 
Banks concerning Phase II of the President's program, the Board 
°f Governors believes that it is appropriate to reaffirm and com-
municate its viewpoint. 
The Board wishes to assure you that it has no intention 
making interpretations concerning Phase II that are arbitrary 
° r more restrictive than for other organizations. However, while 
Is true that aggressive organizations could find ways of exempt-
nS sizeable increase programs from the pay standard as it is now 
c°nceived, the Board's position does not contemplate avoidance or 
evasion, but careful and strict interpretation. 
The Board has asked the Committee on Organization, Compen-
ation, and Building Plans to serve as the focal point for questions, 
formation, and interpretations concerning Phase II. In that 
Opacity, the Committee has provided the attached information which 
11 serve to clarify its position on some important issues that 
^ v e come to the attention of the Committee. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary 
^closure 
lDENTlCAL LETTER SENT TO PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

Are salary adjustments granted to bring salaries to revised 
structure minimums subject to the aggregate salary increase 
standard? 
Based on an advisory opinion received from the IRS, 
any salary increase, other than promotional or longevity, under 
a salary administration program not subject to a union-management 
^contract is considered a type of merit adjustment which, under 
recent rulings by the Pay Board, are subject to the aggregate 
standard. 
\ 
Are severance payments to be charged to the aggregate salary 
Increase standard? 
Severance payments were specifically included in the 
Board regulations; and, therefore were included in the Board's 
guidelines. It is now apparent that the normal type of severance 
Payments at the Reserve Banks, if included in the aggregate increase 
standard, would result in inequities. Therefore, severance payments 
^re not to be included in the aggregate increase standard provided 
that such severance payments are in conformance with the Board's 
ietUr S-2178. 
Are so-called "step-rate" increases to be charged to the aggregate 
£3lary increase standard? 
Because of the broad application given "step-rate" 
ncreases and the widely varying approaches among the Reserve 
anks to this program, it is not appropriate to exempt all such 
increases. However, to provide the Reserve Banks with the same 
°PPortunity that other organizations have for wage increases 
Permitted under bona fide learner programs, the Committee will 
Consider exempting from the standard those Bank programs specifically 
°nstituted for trainee or learner situations. 
Note: The Pay Board provides the following criteria: 
A bona fide learner program is one which must have been 
u operation prior to the freeze date, and which: 
(a) Can be documented as an established practice 
of the bank. 
(b) Provides for a schedule of progression(s) to 
the base or "job rate" during the learning period. 

3 5 3 4 
(c) Involves a recognizable difference in the 
level of output or the quality of the job 
performed by the learner at each step of 
his progression to the base or job rate, and 
(d) Provides on-the-job and/or classroom training 
whereby the learner assumes greater responsibilities 
(such as a decrease in supervision or the addition 
of progressively more difficult duties) or additional 
functions as he progresses through the steps of the 
.program until he meets the minimum requirements of 
the job for which he is being trained. Such minimum 
requirements must be documented, as noted in (a) 
above. 
Banks having such programs are encouraged to communicate 
with the Committee as early as possible providing a written descrip-
tion of that part of their "step-rate" programs which are considered 
to be permitted exclusions from the aggregate salary increase standard 
The Board's guidelines provide that salary increases given in 
connection with bona fide promotions are not to be included in 
either the numerator or the denominator of the aggregate increase 
standard. Also, the guidelines provide that additional positions 
, ' 
° r discontinued positions will not be included as part of the base. 
x 
Shouldn't the Reserve Banks be permitted to include the salary of 
the position in the base in instances where nonpromotion increases 
jre given to the incumbents of the position? 
To avoid inequity the inclusion of salary in the base is 
Permitted when a nonpromotion increase is given to the incumbent. 

jjsfe 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H F. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
S O S D I 
Item No. 11 ^COO 
12/21/71 
O F F I C E G F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
! 
~ 
i-s - 
• • 
Mr. Jaraes S. Duesenberry, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
30 Pearl Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 02106 
Dear Mr. Duesenberry: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Frank E. Morris as President and Earle 0. 
Latham as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston at the annual rates of $53,000 and $42,500, 
respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The rate approved 
for President Morris is that fixed by your Board of Directors 
as reported in your letter of December 20. However, the rate 
approved for First Vice President Latham is at his present 
level of $42,500, not $45,000 as listed in your letter of 
December 20. The Board would appreciate acknowledgement of 
this change. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L, Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

3 5 3 G 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE 5Y5TEM 
Item No. 12 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 2 0 5 S I 
OFFICE OF THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
December 23, 1971 
Mr. Albert L. Nickerson, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
• 
"I 
' • • / •. / '• .. 
. 
Dear Mr. Nickerson: 
The Board of Governors has given careful consideration 
to the feelings of your Board of Directors as expressed in your 
letter of 
December 16, regarding the recommended salary increase 
for Mr. Treiber. However, the Board feels that it would be 
inappropriate at this time to grant exceptions to the guide-
lines on compensation for Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
contained in its letter of December 10, 1968. Therefore, the 
Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries to 
President Hayes and Vice President Treiber for 1972 at their 
current levels of $90,000 and $60,000, respectively, effective 
January 1, 1972. 
Sincerely, 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE SYSTEM 
3 5 3 
Item No. 13 
12/21/71 
y 
WASHINGTON, D. E. 2 Q 5 5 I 
OFFICE OF THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
December 23, 1971 
»y 
Mr. Bayard L. England, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear Mr. England: 
• 
» 
The Board of Governors has given careful consideration 
to the feelings of your Board of Directors, as expressed in your 
letter of December 17, regarding the proposed salary increase for 
Mr. Eastburn. However, the Board feels that it would be inappro-
priate at this time to grant exceptions to the modified guide-
lines on salary adjustments for Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
as communicated in its letter of December 15, 1971. 
Therefore, if so adopted by your Board of Directors, the 
Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries to President 
David P. Eastburn and First Vice President Hark H. Willes at $48,000 
and $32,500, respectively, effective January 1, 1972. 
Sincerely, 

3 5 3 8 
Item No. 14 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N • R 5 
12/21/71 
D F T H T . 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
H O S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
£GGRO)ENTIAL (PR) 
Albert G, Clay, Chairman 
federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
^55 East Sixth Street 
Cleveland, Ohio 44101 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of salary 
to Willis J. Winn as President and Walter H. HacDonald as First 
vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland at the 
annual rates of $51,000 and $38,500, respectively, effective 
ar*uary 1, 1972. The rate approved for Mr. HacDonald is that recom-
^Gncled by your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of 
ccember 27. Mr. Winn's current annual salary was approved, if so 
xxed by your Board of Directors. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

o 5 3 9 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Q F T H F . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 15 
12/21/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FlO 
Dr. Wilson H. Elkins, Chairman 
Federal Preserve Bank of Richmond 
100 North Ninth Street 
Richmond, Virginia 23261. 
Dear Dr. Elkins: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Aubrey N. Heflin as President and Robert P. 
Black as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond at the annual rates of $51,000 and $41,000, 
respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The rates approved 
are those fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in 
your letter of December 9. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

3 5 1 0 
B O A R D OF O D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 16 
12/21/71 
O R THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
3 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Edwin I Hatch, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
104 Marietta Street;, N. W. 
Atlanta, Georgia 30303 
Dear Mr. Hatch: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Monroe Kimbrel as President and Kyle K. Fossum 
as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta at the annual rates of $51,000 and $38,500, respec-
tively, effective January 1, 1972. The rates approved are 
those fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in 
Mr. Kimbrel1s letter of December 10. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 17 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
12/21/71 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C. 
B O S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
Mr. Emerson G. Higdon, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
230 South LaSalle Street 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Dear Mr. Higdon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Robert P. Mayo as President and Ernest T. 
Baughman as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago at the annual rates of $67,500 and $41,500, 
respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The rate for 
Mr. Baughman is as recommended by your Board of Directors 
as reported in Mr. Larson's letter of December 23. 
Mr. Mayo's current salary was approved for the calendar 
year 1972, if so fixed by your Board of Directors. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

35-* ° 
B O A R D G F G O V E R N O R S 
QFTH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
Item No. 18 
12/21/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
2 D S 5 ! 
arrir.E: O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December .30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Frederic M. Peirce, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
411 Locust Street 
St. Louis, Missouri 63166 
Dear Mr. Peirce: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Darryl R. Francis as President and Eugene A. 
Leonard as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis at the annual rates of $56,000 and $36,000 
respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The rates approved 
are those fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in 
your letter of December 10. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
D F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
? . 3543 
Item NO. 19 
12/21/71 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 S 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
Mr. David M. Lilly, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
73 South Fifth Street 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480' 
Dear Mr. Lilly: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Bruce K. MacLaury as President and Maurice H. 
Strothman, Jr. as First Vice President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis at the annual rates of $48,000 
and $41,000, respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The 
rates approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors 
as reported in your letter of December 13. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L Kobertson 
J. L. Robertson 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 20 ^COO 
12/21/71 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C. 
2 0 B 5 I 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Robert IT. Wagstaff, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
925 Grand Avenue 
Kansas City, Missouri 643.98 
Dear Mr. Wagstaff: 
The Board of Governors has received your letter of 
December 21, 1971, to Chairman Burns 
c
o
n
c
e
r
n
i
n
g compensation 
arrangements for First Vice President Boysen and agees with 
your conclusion that Mr. Boysen would be e igib 
- h i s ^ 
next increase on January 1, 1973. Ihereioie, l 
x 
approved the payment of salary to Mr. Be>ysen at the annual 
rate of $33,000, effective January 1, 1972, if so fixed 
your Board of Directors. 
The Board of Governors has also approved the 
of salary to George 
H
. Clay as 
R
e
s
i
d
e
n
t 
o f the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City at the annual rate o
f ^ '000 effeetxxe 
January 1, 1972, if so fixed by your Board of Directors. 
With best regards, 1 am 
Sincerely, 
V
s 
Robertson 

3 5 1 5 
B O A R D n F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F THE 
Item No. 21 
12/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C H R R £ SJF D N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dr. Charles F. Jones, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
400 South Akard Street 
Dallas, Texas 75222 
Dear Dr. Jones: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to P. E. Coldwell as President and T. W. Plant 
as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas at the annual rates of $51,000 and $38,500, 
respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The rates 
approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors as 
reported in your letter of December 20. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
. 35ie 
Item No. 22 
12/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TU THE BOARD 
December 30, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FPQ 
fir. 0. Meredith Wilson, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
400 Sansome Street 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Dr. Wilson: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to Eliot J. Swan as President and A. B. Merritt 
as First Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco at the annual rates of $67,500 and $42,500, 
respectively, effective January 1, 1972. The rates 
approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors as 
reported in your letter of December 23. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

j 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 23 ^COO 
12/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
'CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
'v.. 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 7, 1971. 
The Board also authorizes the payment of salaries 
to Messrs. Lacks and Clapp at their current salary levels of 
$27,600 and $19,500, respectively, until you are able to 
recruit and bring into the Bank a new General Auditor. 
It is noted that Messrs. Berge, Willis and Keating 
w U l retire during 1972. Accordingly, salary payments to 
them are approved to the date of their respective retirements 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
' Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Nr. Frank E. Morris, President 
federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
B°ston, Massachusetts 
02106 
• 
Enclosure 

jjflffie 
D, g 
S 
i ? Ansney 
Aquilino 
T- Byrnes 
UP •» 
Eisenmenger 
' 
Aubrey 
^ 
Berge 
fer
0
M\Hoyle' 
S i d 
A 
P
C M 
N 
Wrp 
pelletier 
t e n c e H. Stone 
t ^ s M 
T U 
jSes T * 
y e r» J r-
e r l a k e 
6 r B- W i H i s 
^ 
S 
A 
• Anderson 
t h * L. 
K 
S 
Bean 
Craig 
Duggan, Jr. 
Fieleke 
i s 
J, 
Ha yes 
ey 
H 
p • Keating 
v, 
Kulesza 
j 
LaBelle 
S S l S k D' °'Connell 
C 6 r 
S h ^ V Wass 
J- Weij 
peckhatn 
SuUivan 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (cont'd.) 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and Adviser 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and Adviser 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Adviser 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
.ss 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
and Economist 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
3 5 4 8 
Annual 
Salary 
$36,000 
32,700 
39,400 
36,200 
28,000 
30,000 
25,000 
23,500 
25,500 
30,000 
29,000 
25,100 
28,400 
23,500 
25,000 
19,000 
20,400 
23,500 
26,600 
22,500 
22,500 
18,300 
21,300 
19,000 
23,000 
20,500 
19,400 
22,500 
19,800 
23,600 

mm-
* 
' r-
- 
2 
-
3 5 4 9 
•k-
# 
.' 
jfatne 
j g P ^ PJ shea, III 
E. Randall 
Vni?r 
Cummings 
CUr^am N* McDonough 
St**, L- 
T u ^ r 
nley B. L a c k s 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (cont'd.) 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant General Counsel 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
Annual 
Salary 
$22,000 
27,000 
25,000 
18,000 
18,000 
26,000 
V > . , 
toV? • ' . 

3 5 5 0 
BOARD DF 
G D V E R N • R 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
January 5, 1972 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 24 
12/21/71 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
kl, y 
• 
- 
C; • 
• . • 
1 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
'Vr ' r 
J' » ' R.'- 
" ' >• • I . ,A 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
y°ur Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
'i 
December 17, 1971. 
It is noted that Messrs. Clarke, Harris, Marsh, 
and Greene will retire during 1972. Accordingly, salary 
Payments to them are approved to the date of their respective 
retirements. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
£ • , 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Alfred Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
York, New York 10045 

o c r / 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (contTd.) 
Holmes 
hi? 
G' 
• ^ ^ T i V * r a u n , Jr. 
G i e r k e 
( ^ 
G. Guy 
p., . 
. • "iderit, Jr. 
iPlw^'Uliri-. 
aVici v
 l* A«nlen, Jr. 
^ _ Garvey 
e r s- Marsh, Jr. 
b 
c, 
B. test 
as C O-. 
! °*8e c' o ? 3 n e 
D ' s^ith 
^nao ' Stp-rnlight 
S ° - W a a 8 e 
Jobj^s Combader 
S t d p S r o w ^ y 
Crumb 
C(1 G. Davis 
, 
Ege 
V n 
S a r d ' T
L a n g 
Lap^us 
F i n n e y 
c °tt J. . 
N ^ ^ - r d e e 
b ' H a J ; ^richer 
^ t e ^ U Puckett 
shmore 
c- Schadrack, Jr. 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
Special Legal Adviser 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Economic Adviser 
Vice President 
Market Adviser 
Vice President 
Deputy General Counsel 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Adviser 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Adviser 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Adviser 
Annual 
Salary 
• • 
$56 
53 
56 
50 
43 
41 
45 
43 
43 
42 
45 
39 
40 
33 
36 
38 
40 
42 
42 
42 
32 
31 
30 
38 
35 
29 
31 
33 
36 
34 
33 
32 
" 35 
30 
36 
300 
300 
300 
000 
000 
900 
000 
000 
900 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
600 
500 
500 
500 
000 
000 
400 
300 
000 
000 
100 
000 
000 
500 
000 
500 

- 2 -
E'ederal Reserve Bank of New York (cond't) 
Kstt n 
L' S m e d l e y 
• C- Thoman 
lan 0 r m a n 
• 
Jr. 
Uo 8H. Auerbach 
tou^s 
Bennetts 
H e t t
J; Mendel 
^ k. Cooper 
fe 
Coyle. 
V ; ; f r U c h 
r R- Feldberg 
1 I L . .t 
anagan 
L. 
Frey 
Hayden 
Hoenig 
Hoey 
1 °^oulis 
J . T -l T 
N < 3 P „ 
J^d H ' Kipfstuhl 
Sax ( ?^ K l oPstock 
S % R 
• Powers 
1 
Rafanello 
frS^cts, t, Rassnick 
IHti I 11' Rohrbach 
^othman 
Jackson 
%lt]'JKloPstock 
s u ' L o n S 
OUman 
2S 
a 
Ruess 
i 1 
Annual 
Title 
i 
Salary 
Assistant Vice President 
$29,200 
Assistant Vice President 
33,400 
Assistant Vice President 
32,000 
Assistant Vice President 
30,500 
Assistant General Counsel 
\ 
34,000 
Manager 
• 
27,000 
Manager 
30,100 
Manager 
. 
j 
27,000 
Manager 
| 
29,100 
Manager 
i i 
31,600 
Securities Trading Officer 
28,200 
Senior Economist 
29,600 
Secretary and 
Assistant Counsel 
32,600 
Assistant. General Auditor 
28,000 
Chief Examiner 
v 
31,500 
Manager 
26,000 
Manager 
25,100 
Manager 
27,500 
Manager 
25,000 
Manager 
24,500 
Manager 
1 
t 
: 
28,500 
Manager 
• i 
29,600 
Manager 
| 
1 
25,500 
Assistant Counse1 
i 
26,800 
Manager 
i 
! i 
28,000 
Manager 
1 
25,000 
Assistant Counsel 
28,900 
Manager 
j 
25,700 
Manager 
27,600 
Manager 
1 
• 
26,200 

- 3 -
3 5 5 o 
O 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York (cont'd) 
RaS 
S*ndberg 
Ben c 
Schindler 
Rud0itaCkhouse 
Rtrk 
Thunberg 
nard Vollkommer 
Wtn. 
H ; l a m H. Walsh 
* 
vid Willey 
Etuce r 
a , 
JatIle 
Alexander 
All® 
Aston 
Jiivens 
^mea u 
»
J 
p • 
°hn .pi 
B r a i8er 
W i s } 0 w a n s k y 
hoopersmith 
B 
T^ 
^tth t
 D i c k 
c- Drexler 
iOr«a
ey 
Irwin 
\ • 
c• Kipp 
\ 
O'Connell 
^ty 
Oppenheimer 
Ruth A
U s ^ Stanton 
M 
n n Tyler 
arn H. Wetendorf 
S s A . 
Sai d * Maclnnes, Jr. 
^ 
Gra>-
Randall 
Title 
i 
Securities Trading Officer 
Research Computer Officer 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager and Assistant 
Secretary 
Manager 
Manager 
Assistant Counsel 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Assistant Counsel 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Assistant Secretary 
Assistant Counsel 
Manager 
Manager 
Manager 
Annua 1 
Salary 
Buffalo Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
$2.8 
29 
26 
29 
26 
29 
29 
25 
26 
25 
26 
23 
27 
24 
24 
22 
25 
25 
25 
26 
27 
26 
23 
24 
25 
700 
500 
500 
000 
000 
500 
600 
200 
200 
700 
500 
800 
000 
600 
600 
500 
400 
000 
000 
000 
000 
000 
700 
600 
500 
26,600 
43,000 
32,000 
24,700 
24,600 
25,000 
• 

BOARD OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE; 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3 5 5 4 
Item NOo 25 
12/21/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23 , 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Mr. Eastburn: 
The Board"of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 16, 1971. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Enclosure 

Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (cont'd.) 
3 5 5 5 
Jam, 
e s V. Vergari 
VlliPh R* Ca®pbell 
si*Vne
James 
Vrence C. Murdoch, Jr 
la 
c. "tilt 
am Metz 
C 
d A-
&
h 
H. Snader 
Ward G- Boehne 
H a a s 
^Oma 
A- Kudelich 
J a > K- Desch 
• Besse 
^ 
C"airnoff 
^ " w ! EpplT 
U a t y H- Holloway 
T 
Jaines 
1 A8new, J r. 
V p h ^ Albert, Jr. 
Joyce 
•
& 
C
n 
R. 
M 
McAneny 
Moll 
t' Ondeck 
• Sudders 
Scott 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
and General Counsel 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and Secretary 
Vice President and 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
Director o*f Research 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Research Officer 
and Economist 
Assistant Counsel and 
Assistant Secretary 
Examining Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Bank Services Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Secretary 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
Chief Examining Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Examining Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Examining Officer 
Annua1 
Salary 
$38,500 
35,500 
31,500 
32,500 
30,500 
31,000 
27,500 
26,500 
29,500 
26,000 
25,700 
22,600 
24,500 
26,000 
23,000 
24,000 
21,800 
24,500 
21,500 
22,000 
19,600 
19,600 
21,500 
19,600 
20,500 
21,000 
20,600 
20,000 
20,500 
20,000 

- 
2 
-
3 5 5 6 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia (cont'd.) 
game 
^avid S toner 
C. Haag 
*veilH; M u n t z 
hi v G* Battista 
Kaminow 
(6 -
* 
Hoskins 
lnic L. Matteo 
Title 
Assistant Counsel 
Public Services Officer 
Accounting Officer 
Personnel Officer 
Research Officer 
Research Officer 
Check Processing Officer 
Annua1 
Salary 
$21,000 
18,000 
18,500 
18,000 
22,500 
22,500 
17,000 

o O v ) / 
'OWCOW'., 
BOARD D F GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 26 
12/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
* 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
v L 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 10, 1971. 
. - s I*. .".. 
It is noted that Mr. Miller will retire during 
Accordingly, salary payments to him are approved to 
the date of his retirement. 
: ^ u o 
^i.r; 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
W i i n s J. Winn, President 
federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
^eveland, Ohio 
44101 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
m 
%closure 

Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
r* rr 
Name 
R°ger R. Clouse 
Vllliam j. Hocter 
ft/' 
Geor 
d G* M i U e r 
g e 
Booth, Jr. 
PauI Bteidenbach 
/ F- Fricek 
Wtn?Seph Ginnane 
H* 
H e n d r i c k s 
y W- Huning 
P*. 
HifL; K e l ly 
Har ; 
Beach, Jr. 
8 t e t A. Beekel 
V 
Erste 
E 
n 
' 
•Ormiston, Jr. 
u- Selby 
Showalter 
J- Swart 
J S 
«ann 
Sairt : Trubica 
S t V - Vincol 
13 L. Whitmer 
Erceg 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
and Secretary 
Vice President 
and Economist 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
and Cashier 
Vice President 
and General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Secretary 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$36,000 
33,500 
36,500 
37,500 
27,000 
28,000 
28,500 
24,750 
32,000 
28,500 
25,250 
26,000 
19,750 
23,250 
19,000 
20,000 
22,250 
24,000 
23,000 
19,500 
17,500 
17,500 
18,500 
18,500 
17,000 
22,750 
17,000 

D. Duggan 
Cha9^ G* Benjamin 
A. Cerino 
etry s. W U s o n 
Cincinnati Branch 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
and Cashier 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$36,500 
27,000 
20,750 
16,500 
18,500 
Cha!f H* Campbell 
• 
t l e s E. Houpt 
J, R 
Anderson 
Vuei r t Aufderheide 
1 G- Campbell 
Pittsburgh Branch 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and Cashier 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
29,000 
25,000 
18,250 
18,000 
18,500 

BDARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 
12/21/71 
3 5 6 0 
27 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
•Atiii" 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
I I 
Dear Dr. Elkins: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond, for the claendar year 1972, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 9, 1971. 
It is noted that Messrs. Beavers and Stewart will 
retire during 1972. Accordingly, salary payments to than 
are approved to the date of their respective retirements. 
The Board also notes that Mr. Snead is on long-term dis-
ability (leave without pay) and will retire on Service 
Retirement effective April 1, 1972. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
°r. Wilson H. Elkins, Chairman 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23261 
Enclosure 

3 5 6 1 
Federal Reserve Bank of.Richmond 
C 
Rand 
E. Sanders, Jr. 
lford B. Beavers 
U0yd u 
V. Tho
W- Bostian, Jr. 
H n n ^ 8 Cunningham, Jr. 
5. * 
Deitrick 
Glover 
H n T 
Myers, Jr. 
C^st
 
N o s k e r 
S v ? ' 
P o r t e r » 
J r-
F* Upshaw 
NpJ°* d Snead 1/ 
l% Unrf 
Viverette 
% I > e c h w. Angle 
% Bagwell 
N f 
n 
N ® ; D a v i s 
St J 
Evans 
S ? C- Fitzgerald 
K 
U* McTerr, Jr. 
V 
E • Pregeant, III 
N h
C 
D 
>
k 
• Ra n a g e 
% R R
H - Wallace 
Hs^ 
Wilson 
^ 
Q ^ t S — — -
Ptll ? 8" t e rm disability; 
1972 
Title 
Senior Vice President and 
Special Legal Adviser 
Senior Vice President and 
Director of Research 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
General Counsel 
Senior Adviser 
General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Secretary 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$34,900 
34,900 
32,000 
32,500 
23,500 
23,900 
25,000 
25,200 
29,100 
25,000 
27,000 
33,200 
25,500 
28,500 
30,800 
30,800 
21,500 
20,000 
18,800 
18,800 
20,000 
21,000 
18,000 
21,000 
18,500 
17,000 
21,400 
22,600 
23,500 
18,000 
will retire on Service Retirement, effective 

- 
2 
-
35SS 
: i f 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (cont'd) 
Nanie 
S J S - y - t t 
Bartk D' Pierce 
Vl jonhue W. Reese 
U a n i D. Martin, III 
^cV^301 
McLean 
*8°n L. Blanton 
A66.BoatwighC, III 
S a J t e w a r t . Jr-
R188SF'T A r m s C r o n 8 
S e f ' 
^ Wilson 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant General Counsel 
Assistant Vice President 
Examining Officer 
Baltimore Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$21,900 
24,000 
19,000 
17,500 
23,000 
21,500 
17,700 
35,000 
27,700 
16,600 
20,500 
19,500 
20,900 
N
«
* 
X , 
! V t p 
Mor'hollon 
N 
Z ; Fishburne 
w u b a n k s 
^ C 
K e l l^r 
0
 
4 Krueger, Jr. 
' l°Uis Martin, J r . 
Charlotte Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
30,000 
29,000 
19,500 
19,900 
19,900 
18,500 
Culpeper Facility 
o I!ickerson» Jr- 
V i c e President 
30,000 
^ h ^ s H ^ n k e l e n b e r 8 
Vice President 
26,500 
G* St i 8 1 
Assistant Cashier 
19,000 
° i d e s 
Assistant Vice President 
23,500 

IN-
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3 5 6 8 
Item No. 28 
12/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
••?••'.,4 >'; 
. 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
t o the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, for the 
Calandar year 1972, as.set forth in the enclosed schedule. The 
rates listed are those fixed by your Board of Directors, as 
reported in your letter of December 10, 1971. 
•S-ttyi \i> 
" 
It is noted that Messrs. Stephenson and Moody will 
retire during 1972. Accordingly, salary payments to them are 
aPproved to the date of their respective retirements. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed ) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
^ v v ; - ; 
Fed M ° n r o e K l m brel, President 
®deral Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
^•lanta, Georgia 
30303 
Closure 

3 5 6 4 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Name 
T. Taylor 
fc p R. Rawlings 
' 4• Moody, Jr. 
orvey 
Kantner 
Forrestal 
J p 
i 
McC 
H. 
^ e r t p. 
Biny Brandt 
I. J* 
Hargett 
5att* ^tePhenson 
y c« Schiering 
A" Sanders 
H e c k 
c ! > Hibbert 
Hone; 
Ma s°n Ford 
> 1 
SS;D/East 
J. Kearney 
Harrison 
is B > 
>e s p* Forbes 
J u u
 G- Phelps 
; * 
11Dykes 
atd A V e n' J r ' 
b 
D i U 
V 
Cald 
W: M°sel 
well 
ey 
V ^ T M. Saxon 
awrence 
Si 
Title 
Senior Vice 
Senior Vice 
Senior Vice 
Senior Vice 
Senior Vice 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
Vice President 
and General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Counse. 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
catd 
Assistant Vice President 
Annua1 
Salary 
$33,000 
32,500 
32,000 
31,500 
31,000 
31,000 
28,500 
28,500 
26,000 
25,000 
22,000 
23,500 
22,500 
22,500 
22,000 
21,000 
20,000 
19,500 
18,000 
19,500 
19,000 
19,000 
19,000 
18,000 
18,000 
18,000 
18,000 
16,800 
16,800 
16,800 
16,800 
i 

- 
2 
-
3 5 6 5 
• 
' 
vi'fjii V -
Name 
fc? 
Hendley 
Uiam A. Waller, Jr 
/oh68 
S h i ' 
1 1 1 
Swanson 
Birmingham Branch 
Title 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annua1 
Salary 
$26,000 
21,500 
16,800 
16,800 
C. 
W." R a i n ey 
$ » 
°row 
Jacksonville Branch 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
28,500 
23,500 
18,800 
17,300 
17,300 
V. j**? J. Wells 
W p P h Thurman 
t0n D. Sands 
Nashville Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
24,500 
19,000 
18,000 
16,500 
H- Gaffney 
Viguerie 
C- DeBlonde 
New Orleans Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
27,000 
20,000 
21,000 
17,000 
Davis 
P 
f V t r 
G u y n n 
,Sste 0. Dole 
Watson 
Miami Office 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
29,000 
24,000 
16,800 
16,800 
> 

"H?! 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3 5 6 6 
Item No. 29 ^COO 
12/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1972 
"i 1 j 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Mr. Mayo: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, for the 
claendar year 1972, as set forth in the enclosed schedule. The 
rates listed are those fixed by your Board of Directors, as 
reported in your letter of December 9, 1971. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed ) Tynan Smith 
• iv • * -.i • t' * •• 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Robert P. Mayo, President 
*ederal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Chicago, Illinois 
60690 
Enclosure 

Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (cont'd.) 
3 5 6 7 
J - 
A n s c h u t z 
J- Bel ford 
Bierbauer 
Ha 
harl«s L. Carter 
G60r&e W. cioos 
lG^o
rt 
Cornelisen 
Jted
y A* Davis 
*tef1
efick S- Dominick 
6(1 
Dons 
^oiiu11 D- D r e y ^ 
< i S h
A
W - Dybeck 
0. Fults 
H. Gram 
Vi 
0 t 
Hansen 
Watd A 
Heath 
S e l p° h» S o n 
Kroll 
fich 
^ G. Kvasnicka 
d J* Larson 
S « * d A 
Z A« Moffatt 
Ul^-Horrison 
y 
Nichols 
S**2 h Ramsden 
^onri, o n ey 
^ 
a' 
Schelder 
Scheld 
% Schultz 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
and Control Officer 
Chief Examiner 
Examining Officer 
Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant General Auditor 
General Auditor 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant General Counsel 
and Assistant Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Senior Vice President, 
General Counsel, and 
Secretary 
Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Annua1 
Salary 
$20,000 
, 19,700 
34,600 
23,500 
23,200 
28,000 
19,500 
27,000 
23,000 
29,200 
20,800 
20,100 
28 ,000 
19,400 
25,000 
25,700 
22,400 
19,000 
20,000 
24,000 
33,600 
32,600 
33,600 
23,900 
24,100 
21,800 
21,400 
24,600 
33,600 
36,800 

- 
2 
-
3 5 6 8 
1 ' t'.Vt-V 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (cont'd.) 
Name 
5j*ott. H. Scott 
S S V - X ' 
V i d R. Starin 
n A- Stile: 
J- Stojetz 
^UbUr G* S t o n e 
JaoK6^ G- Swanson 
Thomp son 
C. Tucker 
J* W AS N E R 
*at>. W* Wellhausen 
ricia W. Wishart 
Wolfe 
en G- Wolkey 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
Examining Officer 
Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$18,500 
22,900 
36,800 
23,800 
20,100 
27,400 
22,600 
21,500 
22,400 
32,600 
22,200 
23,500 
20,000 
19,600 
20,400 
22,700 
24,000 
V U n 
*obe !* C- Conrad 
W
; 
cook 
S i s * 
D°y l e 
d 
Zile 
Detroit Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Cashier 
Senior Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
22,500 
17,400 
33,600 
20,000 
23,000 

BDARD D F G D V E R N • RS 
o 5 6 9 
• F THE 
Item No. 30 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
12/21/71 
:* 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
J • 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
' • 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 9, 1971. 
It is noted that Messrs. Wotawa and Hofer will 
retire during 1972. Accordingly, salary payments to them 
are approved to the date of their respective retirements. 
As discussed with Mr. Burke, Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration, Mr. Breen's present 
title of Vice President and Manager will be retained with 
no reduction in the increase proposed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Enclosure 

3 5 7 0 
H. Weigel 
c* Wotawa 
G. Andersen 
Dunne 
Garbarini 
'°w W. Gilmore 
.f W- Hirshman 
' J o r d a n 
Id u M e n 8 e s 
w« Moriarty, 
Gar]-and Russell, 
JstbV^* 
S a n I' U t h o f f 
u 
Bowsher 
K Carlson 
H H 
> t ^ ChaPin 
S 
I ; Dennison 
^uelinger 
u Quinn Fox 
N M 
Uis'Hofer 
i V d A J o h n s 
. 
Keran 
B T . 
%y n 7 Luttrell 
% 
M o r e 
X c l ^ * teller 
0 r r 
Ottlng 
Jr. 
Jr. 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (contTd.) 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Assistant 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Counsel 
and Assistant Secretary 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$37,500 
..32,550 
33,000 
30,000 
24,500 
26,000 
27,500 
29,000 
26,400 
22,000 
30,800 
23,500 
27,825 
26,500 
26,500 
24,675 
23,625 
20,000 
20,000 
17,500 
20,475 
17,600 
23,100 
22,500 
26,500 
26,500 
20,000 
18,150 
19,000 
20,000 

• as-* 
' ' - . 
jNtoe 
» 
Kan p
 w; Thomas 
Chavi D* W e i s z 
^ 
D. Zettler 
- 
2 
-
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis (contTd.) 
Title 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
3 5 7 1 
Annual 
Salary 
$21,500 
-18,000 
19,750 
21,475 
22,525 
r* Breen 
T. Horiarty 
Ward 
• 
Bas 
Callaway 
Little Rock Branch 
Vice President 
and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
30,000 
22,000 
18,700 
16,500 
^ 
Henry 
P 
Conrad 
ge E' Reiter, 
Jr, 
Louisville Branch 
Senior Vice President 
and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
35,000 
22,000 
18,325 
17,250 
laUr*nee T - V < 
I. Black, Jt. 
N A" » 
lOn 
lyant 
°Uy p • Cremerius, Jr, 
Memphis Branch 
Vice President 
and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
25,650 
22,000 
18,325 
16,750 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3 5 7 ° 
Item No. 31 
12/21/71 
A O O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 3 P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23 ,1971 
; 
•i 
/ / 
'-i 
k 
% 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Mr. MacLaury: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 10, 1971. 
It is noted that Mr. Bergquist will retire during 
1972. 
Accordingly, salary payments to him are approved to 
the date of his retirement. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
s** r 1 
umMxi 
| P l 
jjafa 
5 
A* 
B. K. MacLaury, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55440 
Enclo sure 

o 5 7 3 
V 
, i > " 
-^iiiiiV'--.' 
:*. '>5 -
Name 
QI 
MacDonald 
Ch ? 6 n t A ' V a n N i c e 
p
 ristopher E. Bjork 
/ ^ r i c k J. Cramer 
l*>h J. Dreitzler 
^nard W. Fernelias 
G. Gable 
<9nd D. Graham 
Clar 
' McDonald 
C e W. Nelson 
P. 01 in 
b®rt T.T 
^atl - 
Worcester 
®>H p" B e eth 
leiVi_Bergquisc 
n L. Burstain 
III, 
latm! E - Gainor 
ld 0- Ha11in 
C" Heiber 
C ' V ' Herder 
ld 
Hostad 
S» r 
S i r ; H
t
u g h e s 
• Lee 
sund 
Federal Reserve Bank of C h i c a g o (cont'd.) 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
<renera 1~« Auditor 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
Director of Research 
Vice President 
and Secretary 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant General Counsel 
and Assistant Secretary 
Assistant Vice President 
Emergency Operations 
Officer 
Assistant General Auditor 
Assistant Research Director 
Assistant Vice President 
Building Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Accounting Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Annua1 
Salary 
$35,200 
35,200 
23,000 
28,500 
27,600 
28,700 
28,700 
28,200 
27,300 
27,600 
30,400 
27,900 
24,300 
23,000 
16,500 
25,500 
25,500 
17,400 
21,000 
24,100 
20,500 
24,200 
20,400 
18,500 
24,800 
23,100 
H, 
S ^ V ' Knous 
% 
Hedblom 
' Johnson 
Helena Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
30,300 
20,500 
18,900 

jpoiSov*.. 
tj I U4 ' 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 32 ^COO 
12/21/71 
AOORCSa O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N O f 
N C E 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
! 
December 28, 1971 
M 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. With the exception of the salaries 
for Me ssrs. Euans, Guffey, J. David Hamilton, Cacy, Knight, 
Meeder, and Peters, the rates listed are those reported in 
your letter of December 13, 1971. The salaries for the 
above-named officers were subsequently adjusted by your 
Directors and communicated to the Board's staff by 
Mr. Mothersead's telephone conversation of December 23, 
1971. 
It is noted that Mr. Milburn will retire during 
1972. Accordingly, salary payments to him are approved to 
the date of his retirement. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
George H. Clay, President 
federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
^closure 
It was noted in a subsequent letter to the 
Kansas City Bank that recognition should have 
been made that Massrs. Tow and Tollander also 
would reach retirement age in 1972. 

Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
3575 
Name 
Cl 
arence W. Tow 
JjUbur x. Billington 
R. Czerwinski 
UOln*s E. Davis 
^ond J. Doll 
- 
' ; 
R. Euans 
' *°ger Guffey 
J! DaVid Hamilton 
ln L. Mothersead 
E. Thomas 
Et^J S- Willock 
a«me8
eJ J* Andrews 
Ve* a 
B o w e n 
S A. Cacy 
V j ; 
Foley 
Green 
C E- Knight 
JtHr. 
Knoche 
8- Miller 
S r t E 
, 
N y n 
" 
, ' Shreeves 
k
 ld°n W. stahl 
White 
*ttf 
H- Wilkerson 
S y V ^ ^
8 
StUs A 
R o b i n S on 
A. Swans on 
Title 
Senior Vice President— 
Economic Research 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and Senior Economist 
Vice President 
and Senior Economist 
Vice President 
Vice President, General 
Counsel, and Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Acting General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Research Officer 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Examining Officer 
Research Officer 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Research Officer 
and Economist 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Research Officer 
and Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Public Information Officer 
Operations Officer 
r 
Annual 
Salary 
$37,500 
30,400 
23,000 
26,000 
32,000 
25,700 
30,400 
25,500 
24,000 
28,500 
25,000 
21,000 
20,000 
18,000 
24,200 
19,800 
21,000 
22,200 
20,000 
25,500 
24,000 
20,500 
18,800 
25,500 
20,100 
20,100 
23,500 
17,000 
17,300 
16,400 

Name 
J|0r8e C. Rankin 
r^en S. Meeder 
J ^ r F. Krebs 
' Truitt Leake 
- 
2 
-
Denver Branch 
Title 
' 3 5 7 6 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Operations Officer 
Annua1 
Salary 
$32,000 
17,500 
16,400 
16,900 
N r d W. Pritz 
, Wiam G. Evans 
V *ence McCracken 
' J- Milburn, Jr. 
Oklahoma City Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Operations Officer 
Operations Officer 
30,900 
19,300 
14,500 
16,300 
15,600 
%m 
D. Hamilton 
^ Id f' T
PleiSS 
n L* 
L a h m 
C- Tollander 
Omaha Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Operations Officer 
22,000 
21,500 
15,000 
17,500 

'oOlGo*;-.. 
BDARD DF G D V E R N • R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3577 
Item No. 33 
12/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
«. 
• 
N 
, 
• 
Dear Mr. Coldwell: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dallas, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in the 
enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 9, 1971. 
It is noted that Messrs. Cook and Schoenhoff 
will retire during 1972. Accordingly, salary payments 
to them are approved to the date of their respective 
retirements. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed)Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Mr. p. E. Coldwell, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Enclosure 

JC 
3 5 7 8 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Name 
L. Cauthen 
J* Salvaggio 
*0bert H. Boykin 
• •>: . • . * 
• • • 
F. Rudy 
^ P h T. Green 
Th 
Ja °mas R. Sullivan 
j ^ 8 A. Parker 
t'o
M- Fritchett 
' W- Vorlop, Jr. 
H i 8 8 i n s 
A. Brown 
06o y B. Robinson 
C. Cochran, III 
' 
Thaxton 
^ill-
T 
H. Kelly 
v ; 
n p r e n g 
°SePh W. 
D. Ingram 
Harlow, Jr. 
Sanders 
C, j6^ J. Alexander, Jr 
C, I. Vick 
^ C 1 * - Blake 
c Smith, III 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
and Secretary 
General Counsel 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
and Controller 
Vice President 
General Auditor 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Counsel 
and Assistant Secretary 
Assistant Vice President 
Director of Research 
Assistant Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Data Processing Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Bank Relations Officer 
Public Information Officer 
and Assistant Secretary 
Annual 
Salary 
$35,000 
29,100 
28,100 
31,200 
30,500 
30,500 
26,000 
25,500 
25,400 
25,400 
24,500 
20,000 
24,000 
23,200 
22,700 
22,500 
21,000 
20,400 
20,000 
19,000 
18,800 
18,000 
16,500 
15,500 
14,000 
^tesC W* R e e d 
^ a s V " 
C o l e m a n 
Robertson 
El Paso Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
25,600 
19,000 
17,500 
• 

- 
2 
-
3 5 7 9 
Houston Branch 
Naine 
Cook 
5asc° R. Story 
Rowe 
• J. Schoenhoff 
N. Ainsvorth 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Operations Officer 
Annual 
Salary 
$35,900 
25,000 
23,300 
17,200 
17,000 
H. Moore 
P^erick J. Schmid 
e r t W. Schultz 
°mas C. Cob 
San Antonio Branch 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Operations Officer 
Operations Officer 
30,000 
18,000 
17,100 
16,500 

••ws^r-
; ' ;T; 
BDARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No 
12/21/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 23, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
• V;-?: ^ 
< „ 
\ 
\ 
A; 
• V/j 
f. 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salaries to the officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco, for the calendar year 1972, as set forth in 
the enclosed schedule. The rates listed are those fixed 
by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
December 16, 1971. 
0 . : 
' • 
•• 
It is noted that Mr. Skinner will retire and 
Peters en will resign during 1972. Accordingly, salary 
Payments to them are approved to the date of their retire-
m ent and resignation, respectively. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Tynan Smith 
!H t; 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
Eliot J. Swan, President 
federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
S an Francisco, California 
94120 . 
v^'VU. 
Enclosure 
At x t 
•m V-.. 

Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Name 
J' 
Craven 
b] 
Williams 
• Davenport 
G* J. Jamison 
R. v.,, 
Kelly 
6* J* Hasten 
• Maurer, jr. 
* E- ReiHy 
j* 
Retallick 
' 
Aamodt 
L 
V- M. 
V. 
to. 
C. 
w. 
I. 
S. 
p. 
* 
A 
c. 
£ B. 
A fl 
1:1 
v. B. 
C. 
A. 
Alexander 
Bernstein 
Brundy 
Burke 
Carella 
Cooper 
Depper 
Galloway 
Hutchins 
Johnsen 
Johnston 
frisson 
Lambert 
Livingston 
Lynn 
0'Donne11 
°lsen 
Petersen 
Remedios 
Runyon 
0, 
A, 
Wr 
Sims 
welis 
. 
0essner 
. ' c^rran 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Vice President and 
General Counsel 
Vice President 
Examining Officer 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
Assistant Vice 
President 
President 
President 
President 
President 
Associate General Counsel 
Examining Officer 
Assistant Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Economist 
Chief Examiner 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Director of Research 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Economist 
Senior Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Senior Economist 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
3581 
Annual 
Salary 
$36,500 
32,500 
26,750 
27,000 
31,000 
27,000 
30,000 
26,500 
23,500 
22,400 
19,800 
22,400 
21,000 
24,500 
19,500 
24,000 
21,000 
22,000 
22,500 
23,000 
21,650 
22,750 
19,800 
19,300 
23,150 
18,250 
20,550 
19,750 
17,500 
20,800 
22,500 
20,500 
17,500 
17,500 

- 
2 
-
3 5 8 2 
Los Angeles Branch 
Name 
W» Cavan 
G. DeVrles 
A. Thomas 
J. Carson 
A. Erne 
* F. Lucey, Jr 
D. Parker 
Title 
Senior Vice President 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Annual 
Salary 
$38,000 
26,500 
22,900 
20,000 
17,750 
17,500 
17,750 
J* M. Brown 
C. Dunn 
J* K. Grimm 
• R. Skinner 
K. Ginter 
Portland Branch 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
29,000 
20,500 
19,000 
16,500 
16,000 
L. Price 
G. Holman 
J* P. Franzel 
• W. Sheets 
Salt Lake City Branch 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
26,700 
20,800 
16,750 
17,750 
j* R. Sandstrom 
* M. Davis 
5' 
Liggett 
* R. Smith 
Seattle Branch 
Vice President and Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
28,000 
21,000 
17,750 
17,750 
