w 
Minutes for October 31, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3854 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 31, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Dahl and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
_L/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

«>ocr 
10/31/68 
-2-
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, 
Mertz, and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Ducy, and Lawrence of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss Greene and Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, 
Guth, and Ponczka of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Bank holding company applications. The following bank holding 
company applications were approved unanimously after consideration of 
background material that had been made available, including favorable 
staff recommendations: 
Application of Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of all of the voting shares of The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine, and Washburn Trust Company, Washburn, Maine. 
Applications of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, 
Virginia, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of (1) First National Bank of Norfolk, Norfolk, 
Virginia, and (2) The City Bank and Trust Company of 
Alexandria, Alexandria, Virginia. 
Application of Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, 
Florida, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of First City Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida. 
It was understood that orders and statements reflecting these decisions 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Officer appointment (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis approving 
the appointment of Wilbur H. Isbell as Vice President in charge of the 
bank examination function, and payment of salary to him at the rate 
fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 

< > )'—fl 
10/31/68 
-3-
Report on financial developments. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated October 30, 1968, with which Mr. Brill submitted a 
preliminary draft of the first of the quarterly reports on financial 
developments to be furnished to the Joint Economic Committee. The 
staff requested guidance from the Board as to whether the scope, 
length, and content of the draft appeared to meet the objectives set 
forth in Chairman Martin's letter of September 9, 1968, to Chairman 
Proxmire. 
During a review of the draft members of the Board commented on 
various points relating to emphasis and approach. Passages from Chair-
man Proxmire's letter requesting the reports and Chairman Martin's 
reply were read in order to judge whether the draft would satisfacto-
rily fulfill the Board's commitment. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would prepare for the Board's consideration another draft of the 
report that would take account of views expressed. 
Governor Sherrill joined the meeting at this point. 
Consultants. Mr. Holland referred to the Board's action on 
October 28, 1968, approving the use of consultants in connection with 
a study of the issue of one-bank holding companies. The list of names 
submitted to the Board included that of Professor Alhadeff, but it had 
now developed that he would be unable to serve. As a replacement, Mr. 
Holland suggested Professor Kalmer Cohen of Carnegie-Mellon University, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 

10/31/68 
-4-
Mr. Holland also recommended that the consultants for this 
study be paid a fee of $95 a day, plus per diem and transportation 
expenses in accordance with the Board's travel regulations, and that 
any resulting overexpenditure in the pertinent budget account of the 
Division of Research and Statistics be approved. 
The recommendations were approved unanimously, it being under-
stood that Governor Maisel would have authority to act with respect to 
any further changes that might be necessary in the list of consultants. 
Citizens and Southern Community Development Corporation. At 
yesterday's meeting the Board considered the request of The Citizens 
and Southern National Bank of Georgia, Savannah, Georgia, a registered 
bank holding company, that the Board determine that its acquisition of 
the stock of Citizens and Southern Community Development Corporation 
was permissible under certain statutes, including the Bank Holding 
Company Act. The question turned primarily on exemptions provided in 
sections 4(c)(5) and 4(c)(8). 
(Section 4(c)(5) permits acquisition of shares eligible for 
investment by national banks under section 5136 of the Revised Statutes, 
and the Comptroller of the Currency had ruled that the acquisition by 
Citizens and Southern was permissible under his interpretation relat-
ing to contributions by national banks to community development. It 
was understood that the interpretation rested in part on the provision 
of section 5136 that permits national banks to exercise such incidental 

385S 
10/31/68 
-5-
powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking. 
Section 4(c)(8) provides exemption for shares of any company all of 
the activities of which are of a financial, fiduciary, or insurance 
nature, the applicability of the exemption to be determined by the 
Board on the basis of a hearing.) 
The majority view of the Legal Division was that the exemption 
in section 4(c)(5) was not applicable, but that the exemption in sec-
tion 4(c)(8) might be. ^An alternative view favoring section 4(c)(5) 
had been presented by Mr. Shay. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer reiterated his hope that 
the Board's decision with respect to the Citizens and Southern pro-
posal would not prejudice bank participation in urban rehabilitation 
programs generally. In order to obtain information that might indicate 
the pattern emerging in such programs, he had asked the staff to 
contact the Reserve Banks yesterday afternoon; the results had been 
made available to the Board this morning. The information gathered, 
which was necessarily rough, indicated that it was fairly common for 
participating banks to acquire an equity interest in the development 
corporation, although participation by a group of banks seemed to be 
typical. 
Governor Brimmer urged that the Board not rule against such 
plans on the basis of any single criterion, such as joint or single 
participation. Also, while most of the reported plans did not involve 

3859 
10/31/68 
-6-
real estate transactions, in some cases the activities were not yet 
clearly identified and it might turn out that they would have to 
include real estate transactions. 
Chairman Martin recalled that in yesterday's discussion it 
had been clear that the members of the Board would like to encourage 
bank participation in community development programs to the extent 
possible within the law. There was a division of thinking on whether 
the exemption in section 4(c)(5) would be available for a project like 
that of Citizens and Southern. Before pursuing that question further, 
the Board might wish to invite representatives of Citizens and Southern 
to meet with it. A conference might clarify the picture in such a way 
that it would be possible to say more definitely whether or not sec-
tion 4(c)(5) was available. Another possibility would be to proceed 
with a hearing under section 4(c)(8). 
Governor Mitchell said he would be agreeable to using section 
4(c)(5) for what were established to be true development corporations 
involving bank participation, but not for exclusive subsidiaries of a 
single bank. Also, he thought the record should show the powers of the 
development corporation in question. The corporation acquired by 
Citizens and Southern might be meritorious, but he did not believe 
there was any way to tell without examining its charter and perhaps 
talking with representatives of Citizens and Southern about how they 
expected to use the corporation. His inclination was to advocate a 

3860 
10/31/68 
-7-
general policy of approval where there was joint participation in 
urban rehabilitation ventures, although in every case the charter 
authority should be studied. 
Governor Daane stated that he had not changed the view he 
expressed yesterday that the Board had a legal basis for interpreting 
section 4(c)(5) to permit the Citizens and Southern plan. 
Governor Maisel said that he also would approve under sec-
tion 4(c)(5). He would accord a presumption of correctness to the 
ruling of the Comptroller, especially in view of the possible ramifi-
cations of taking a contrary position. He had some sympathy for the 
approach Governor Mitchell had outlined. Perhaps a general consent 
procedure could be worked out, such as had been used with respect to 
some types of investments by Edge corporations. If a particular plan 
did not fall within the terms of the general consent, the proponents 
could apply for a specific consent. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be improper 
to use section 4(c)(5). However, a section 4(c)(8) approach could be 
used as a step toward fashioning a range of possibilities for bank 
participation in urban rehabilitation. If this were found not to be 
feasible, the Board could take another look at the over-all question. 
He definitely would not support a view that only multiple participation 
should be permitted. 
In summary, Governor Brimmer said, he still favored the idea 
suggested yesterday of holding a general hearing, not directed at any 

•O r I V 
10/31/68 
-8-
particular statutory provision but to gain more knowledge of community 
development programs and to block out a range of financial activities 
that could be permitted under section 4(c)(8). A letter of general 
consent might then be devised, as Governor Maisel had suggested, with 
peripheral cases handled on an ad hoc basis. 
Governor Sherrill said that, although he had no objection to 
obtaining further facts, he thought section 4(c)(5) was applicable to 
the Citizens and Southern proposal. With respect to the question of 
defining the powers of a development corporation, regarding which 
Governors Mitchell and Maisel had offered suggestions, his own view 
was that the charter should contain restrictions such as to insure 
that the area of operation would be in fact concerned with the financ-
ing of urban rehabilitation and not with real estate transactions. 
Chairman Martin then suggested that he might invite Mr. Mills 
Lane, President of Citizens and Southern, to come to Washington to 
discuss the situation with the Board, without referring to any partic-
ular section of the law. 
Governor Robertson observed that representatives of the Ameri-
can Bankers Association were working toward facilitating bank partici-
pation in urban rehabilitation programs and that it might be useful to 
ask them to confer with the Board in the interest of obtaining the best 
information. In the meantime, a letter might be sent to Citizens and 
Southern saying that for the time being no action would be taken 
regarding its development corporation. 

10/31/68 
-9-
In further discussion of procedures, Chairman Martin expressed 
the view that it would not be advisable for the Board to put itself in 
the position of providing a forum for determining means to achieve the 
ends of urban renewal. That was a Congressional function. Also, 
representatives of Citizens and Southern might discuss their plan more 
freely and contribute more information at a meeting that did not 
include other organizations. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
Mr. Lane would be invited to meet with the Board and that, depending 
on the outcome of such meeting, arrangements might be made for a 
meeting with other persons regarding the more general question. 
Secretary's Note: A meeting with Mr. Lane 
was subsequently arranged for Monday, Novem-
ber 4, 1968. 
"Shell" facilities. On October 15, 1968, the Board held the 
most recent in a series of discussions of the problems arising from 
applications by a number of U.S. banks to establish "shell" or limited 
service branches in the Bahamas and elsewhere. The staff documentation 
had presented a greater weight of argument for approval than for dis-
approval, and Governor Brimmer requested that the case for denial be 
more fully developed. Governor Daane had requested that the staff 
also explore the possible framework of a surveillance or contingency 
plan. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum of October 23, 
L968, from the Office of the Secretary transmitting memoranda (1) from 

10/31/68 
-10-
Mr. Sammons presenting a summary of arguments against approving such 
applications, (2) from Mr. Hackley containing a possible basis for 
nonapproval, (3) from Messrs. Dahl and Gemmill regarding surveillance 
of foreign branches of U.S. banks, and (4) from Mr. Doyle suggesting 
contingency plans to regulate foreign branches. Copies of these 
documents have been placed in the Board's files. 
Governor Brimmer prefaced today's discussion with comments 
on developments with respect to formulation of the 1969 guidelines for 
the foreign credit restraint program. He suggested, for reasons includ-
ing the possibility of a Treasury proposal to exempt all export credit 
from the program, that a decision not be made regarding the applica-
tions for "shell" facilities until agreement had been reached regarding 
the 1969 program. 
Mr. Robert Solomon then summarized the principal reasons under-
lying the position that, on balance, approval of the pending applications 
would be justified. 
Further di scussion related to the distinction between avoidance 
and evasion of regulation and to the possible need (suggested by Gover-
nor Maisel) to amend the Board's Regulations D (Reserves of Member 
Banks) and Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits) to make them applicable 
to foreign branches. Comments were also made on the rationale through 
which the formulators of the foreign credit restraint program had 
exempted foreign branches of U.S. banks from the program. Governor 
Brimmer cited data he had assembled on trends in U.S. bank deposit 

3864 
10/31/68 
-11-
l) 
liabilities to foreigners, for all U.S. banks and for banks with 
foreign branches established before and after the beginning of the 
foreign credit restraint program. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that further 
consideration of the pending applications would be deferred for approxi-
mately 30 days, or until decisions had been made regarding the 1969 
guidelines of the foreign credit restraint program. 
Condition reports. Under the procedure prescribed by statute 
the close of business Wednesday, October 30, 1968, had been selected 
as the date for the third call for reports of condition to be made by 
insured banks within the calendar year 1968. The call was to be 
announced on Tuesday, November 5. 
In accordance with the usual practice, a telegram had been 
sent to all Federal Reserve Banks this morning advising that a call 
for reports of condition by State member banks as of the close of 
business October 30 should be made at a specified time on forms fur-
nished with the Board's letter of September 23, 1968. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified by unanimous vote. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
P 
Secretary 

3865 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
10/31/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BDARD 
October 31, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
With reference to your letter of October 18, 1968, 
the Board of Governors has approved the appointment and 
payment of salary to Mr. Wilbur H. Isbell as Vice President 
in charge of Bank Examination function at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis at his current rate of $22,500 
per annum for the period December 1 through December 31, 
1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
