I ii 
1) I •> 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 28, 1968 
. • • i 
t,; i 

7 7 4 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, February 28, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Shull, King, and Lawrence of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Cloth and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Burton and Lyon, and Miss Greene of the 
Division of Examinations 
Application of Virginia Commonwealth Bankshares. There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated February 21, 1968, from the 
Division of Examinations concerning the application of Virginia 
Commonwealth Bankshares, Inc., Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares 
°f The First Colonial Bank, Virginia Beach, Virginia. The Commissioner 
°f Banking of the State of Virginia, the Federal Reserve Bank of Rich-
mond, the Division of Examinations, and the Banking Markets Section all 
r ecommended approval. 

2/28/68 
-2-
After a review by Mr. Lyon of the materials in the memorandum 
and attachments thereto, the Board unanimously approved the application 
with the understanding that the customary order and statement would be 
drafted. 
It was also understood that the statement would include 
reference to the applicant's program to increase the capital of First 
Colonial Bank. 
Legislative recommendations. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated January 10, 1968, from the Legal Division containing 
legislative recommendations proposed for inclusion in the Board's 1967 
Annual Report to the Congress. The material covered all of the recom-
mendations made by the Board in its Annual Report for 1966, except the 
recommendation relating to loans to executive officers of member banks, 
which had since been effected by amendments to section 22(g) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
The memorandum also included recommendations on legislative 
proposals, not initiated by the Board, designed to eliminate the 
requirement that Federal Reserve Banks maintain gold reserves against 
Federal Reserve notes, and to authorize commercial banks to underwrite 
and deal in revenue bonds. 
Mr. Cardon now recommended, however, that the latter two pro-
Posals not be included as legislative recommendations in the Board's 
Annual Report. 
It was his opinion that recommendations included in 
the Annual Reports should preferably be limited to proposed legislation 

2/28/68 
-3-
originated by the Board. 
If the Board wished to endorse legislation 
that it had not itself proposed, it could make recommendations with 
respect to many bills. 
There was general agreement with Mr. Cardon's reasoning. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Annual Report contain a 
reference to the progress made on "par clearance" legislation at the 
State level. He also suggested that the Board consider changing its 
recommendation with respect to the graduated reserve requirement bill 
which had been introduced in the Congress at the Board's request. 
Under the terms of that proposed legislation, reserve requirements 
would be extended to all commercial banks insured by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, and not just to member banks of the 
System. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the prospects for 
the bill being enacted would be much greater if the provision extend-
ing reserve requirements to nonmember insured banks were deleted. 
Governor Maisel then inquired whether it would be feasible to 
have a member of Congress introduce another bill in the form suggested 
by Governor Mitchell so as to have two bills before the Congress. 
In reply, M r . Cardon said that the bill had practically no 
chance of passage in its present form, and that almost any change in 
the bill would improve its prospects. However, he did not know whether 
deleting the reserve requirement provision for nonmember insured banks 
would be of much value. Although it would remove a principal objection, 

2/28/68 
-4-
other parts of the bill would still be controversial. With respect to 
Governor Maisel's suggestion, Mr. Cardon said that he could see, if the 
Board so desired, whether a member of the Senate Banking and Currency 
Committee might be willing to introduce a separate bill. 
Governor Daane indicated that he would be reluctant to support 
a bill that did not require all insured banks to maintain reserves 
with the Federal Reserve System. In his opinion, the Board should not 
retreat from the position it had already expressed. 
Governor Mitchell noted that he would prefer legislation in 
the form proposed by the Board. 
Governor Sherrill recalled that he was not a member of the 
Board at the time the discussion of the reserve requirement bill took 
place. If he had been a member of the Board, he doubted that he would 
have been favorably inclined. 
In any event, there was no possibility 
of the present bill being enacted, but many benefits would accrue if 
some portions of the bill were passed. For that reason, and in the 
interest of being realistic, he thought the legislative approach 
should be redesigned. 
Governor Daane then said that if it was felt necessary to 
redesign the legislative approach in the interest of realism he would 
do so by trying quietly to have another bill introduced. However, he 
would not want to put the full weight of the Board behind it. The 
position previously expressed by the Board and now proposed to be 

780 
2/28/68 
-5-
restated was the right one, and in its Annual Report the Board should 
not shift away from a position that was correct. 
Chairman Martin agreed with the view that the Annual Report 
was not the place to make a change. He then raised a question about 
the extent to which the Board could move toward graduated reserve 
requirements under existing legislation, and there ensued some dis-
cussion of the limitations within which any modifications would have 
to be made. 
Mr. Hexter observed that if the possibility of obtaining legis-
lation this year was remote the Board might want to consider omitting 
any reference to the subject of reserve requirements from its Annual 
Report. However, members of the Board expressed the view that refer-
ence to the matter should be included, perhaps with some minor modifi-
cation of the text that would open the door to the possibility of a 
member of the Congress introducing alternative legislation. 
It was 
noted that the Board would not have to take a position on such legis-
lation unless it was introduced. 
Chairman Martin then asked Governor Sherrill for clarification 
of the latter
1s views. Governor Sherrill said he did not believe that 
legislation along the lines of the bill that had been introduced at 
the Board's request represented the best approach. It touched upon 
another principle equally as important as the matter of reserve 
requirements, namely, extension of Federal Reserve membership by 

2/28/68 
-6-
means of a law not directed specifically to that issue. He would 
prefer to approach the matter directly through a statutory requirement 
that every bank must be a member of the Federal Reserve System. He 
was not a member of the Board when the discussion of the currently 
pending legislation occurred, and he would not be prepared this morn-
ing to pursue the point. But he thought a significant issue was 
involved. 
Governor Daane commented that in his opinion the objective 
should be uniformity of reserve requirements for all banks. He looked 
upon a system of graduated reserve requirements as a transitional step 
and not as an end in itself. 
Governor Mitchell then suggested that a minor amendment be 
made in the text proposed for inclusion in the Annual Report so as to 
state that the problem of classifying member banks into reserve city 
and "country" banks was in itself an obstacle to the development of a 
more equitable system of reserve requirements. There was general 
agreement with the inclusion of such language. 
Accordingly, that change having been agreed upon, the legisla-
tive recommendations were approved for inclusion in the Annual Report, 
except for the sections on removal of the gold cover and on the under-
writing of revenue bonds. 
Views of Reserve Bank directors. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Office of the Secretary dated February 27, 1968, 

7 8 0 
2/28/68 
-7-
submitting a further revised draft of letter to the Chairmen of the 
Federal Reserve Banks expressing the Board's interest in receiving the 
views of Reserve Bank boards of directors on matters relating to mone-
tary policy. Earlier drafts had been considered by the Board at its 
meetings on February 15 and 26, 1968. 
After a brief discussion of the proposed letter by Mr. Holland, 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he had some suggestions for restruc-
turing of the letter that should also meet points raised by Governor 
Brimmer. 
It was agreed that the letter would be revised accordingly 
and brought back to the Board for further consideration. 
Residential mortgage survey. Mr. Brill reported that the 
Reserve Banks had completed a special survey of the residential mort-
gage market, and that a summary of the survey would be distributed 
prior to the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. He 
noted that the Board had in the past authorized distribution of the 
results of similar surveys to other interested agencies in Washington, 
and he requested authority to do the same on this occasion. The Board 
authorized such distribution. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Acting in the absence 
of Governor Robertson, Governor Sherrill 
approved on behalf of the Board on Febru-
ary 27, 1968, the following items: 
Memorandum from Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser in the Division of 
Research and Statistics recommending the establishment of one secre-
tarial position, one stenographic position, and one typist position 
in the Truth-in-Lending Unit. 

2/28/68 
-8-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Cecelia 0. Ghannam as Secretary, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,957, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Helen J. Miller as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Peter M. Lauriat as Summer Assistant, Division of Bank Operations, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Ashby T. Richards, Jr., as Summer Assistant, Division of Bank 
Operations, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,565, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfers 
Patricia A. Schoen, Secretary, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, to another secretarial position in that Division, with no change 
in basic annual salary at the rate of $6,342, effective upon assuming 
her new duties. 
Carol G. Peppers, from the position of Clerk-Typist in the Divi-
sion of Personnel Administration to the position of Clerk-Typist in 
the Division of Administrative Services, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $4,995, effective March 10, 1968. 
• 
On February 27, 1968, Governor Sherrill 
noted on behalf of the Board a memoran-
dum advising that Henry Tidwell, Messen-
ger in the Division of Administrative 
Services, had filed application for 
retirement, effective March 1, 1968. 
On February 27 and 28, 1968, actions 
were taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by the 
following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item num-
bers indicated: 

2/28/68 
-9-
On February 27, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Item No. 
Letter to The Sylvania Savings Bank Company, 
Sylvania, Ohio, approving the establishment 
of a branch at 847 W. Alexis Road, Toledo. 
1 
Letter to The Union Savings & Trust Co., 
Warren, Ohio, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Howland Township, Trumbull 
County. 
2 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to First Holding Company, Inc., 
3 
Waukesha, Wisconsin, granting an exten-
sion of time within which to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisi-
tion of shares of First National Bank of 
Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, and The 
First National Bank in Wauwatosa, 
Wauwatosa, Wisconsin. 
Letter to Bank of Sturgeon Bay, Sturgeon 
4 
Bay, Wisconsin, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish an in-town 
branch (drive-in facility). 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Letter to Thorndale State Bank, Thorndale, 
. 
5 
Texas, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
On February 28, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to First National City Overseas 
6 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting an extension of time within which 
to acquire shares of a New Zealand finance 
company. 

7 8 3 
2/28/68 
-10-
On February 28, 1968 (continued) 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Item No. 
Letter to The Cleveland Trust Company, 
7 
Cleveland, Ohio, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in Euclid, Cuyahoga 
County. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 
2/28/68 
February 27, 1968 
Mr. Donald W. Beveridge, President 
The Sylvania Savings Bank Company 
Sylvania, Ohio 
Dear Mr. Beveridge: 
This refers to your application to establish a branch at 847 
W. Alexis Road, Toledo, Lucas County, Ohio. 
Upon investigation, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
finds the capital of the bank is adequate, the management is satis-
factory, the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs 
of the community, and it will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated 
authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland hereby approves 
the establishment of a branch at 847 W. Alexis Road, Toledo, Lucas 
County, Ohio, provided the branch is established within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us 
indicating that the branch has been formally opened for business. 
Very truly yours 
H. W. Huning 
Vice 
President 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
O F 
C L E V E L A N D 
GOBY 
Item No. 2 
2/28/68 
February 27, 1968 
Mr. Charles R. Holton, Jr., President 
The Union Savings &c Trust Co. 
Warren, Ohio 
Dear Mr. Holton: 
The application of your bank, dated January 22, 1968, for 
permission to establish an out-of-town branch in the Eastwood Mall 
Shopping Center at the intersection of Youngstown and Mines Roads, 
Howland Township, Trumbull County, Ohio, has been reviewed by this 
bank. 
Upon investigation, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland finds 
that the capital of the bank is adequate, that its management is satisfactory, 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the com-
munity, and that it will not tend to create an undesirable, competitive 
situation. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland hereby approves the establishment of an out-of-town 
branch by your bank at the intersection of Youngstown and Mines Roads, 
provided the branch is established within two years from the date of this 
letter. 
On the day operations are started, will you please wire us that 
the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Mr. W. A. Kucxarov, President 
First Holding Caapeny, lac, 
c/o First Kktiooal Bonk of Waukesha 
Waukesha, Wisconsin 53l£6 
Dear Mr. Kuumrov: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank grants an extension of tine of 
thirty days fran M&rch U, 1968, within which first Balding 
Gcnpany, Xnc», nay becone a bank holding o<imiany through the 
acquisition of 00 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
First Actional 
of Waukesha, Waukesha, Wisconsin, and The 
First national Bank in tbuvatosa, tfcumtosa, Wisconsin. 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60MQ 
(312) HA 7-2320 
Item No 
2/28/68 
February 27» I960 
Very truly yours, 
Inland Boss 
•ice President 
EOFtrk 
cc - Board of Qcr 
CO 

• 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2JO SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No. 4 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
2/28/68 
(312) HA 7-2320 
February 27, 19*8 
Mr* Letter S. Koehn 
Vice President and Cashier 
Sank of Sturgeon Bay 
Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin 
Dear Mr. Koehn: 
Cb behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bonk Approves an extension of one smith 
to March 29, 1968, of the tlxaa In which your bank nay establish 
a drive-In facility at the southwest corner of Fourth Avenue and 
Jefferson Street, Sturgeon Bay, Wisconsin. 
As previously Indicated we would appreciate being 
advised of the date on which this facility Is opened for 
business. 
Very truly ycurs, 
leiand Boss 
Vice President 
LRirk 
cc - Board of Governors 
State Bnnfrlng Department 
Examiner's file 
^193 
C O P Y 

C O P Y 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS 
7 8 8 
DALLAS. TEXAS 
7 5 2 2 2 
Item No. 5 
2/28/68 
February 27, 1 
Board of Directors 
Thorndale State Bank 
P. 0. Box 335 
Thorndale, Texas 76577 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to President Herman Clement's letter of Febru-
ary 12, 1JixS, together with the accompanying resolution dated January o, 
1 
signifying your intention to withdraw froci uambership in the Fed-
eral Reserve System and requesting waiver of the six months' notice of 
such withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank has waived the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 208.10(c) of the Board's 
Regulation H, your institution may accomplish termination of its member-
ship at any time within ei^ht months from the date that notice of inten-
tion to withdraw from membership was given. Upon surrender to this bank 
stock issued to .your institution, such stock will be cancelled and appro-
priate refund will be made thereon. 
When you have been advised by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation of the continuance of deposit insurance, please forward us 
for refund the stock of this bank held by you and also your certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System, thereby terminating your 
membership. Your letter transmitting this stock should contain instruc-
tions as to the disposition of your reserve account balance and the trans-
fer of securities, If any, which are held in safekeeping for the account 
of ,yoor bank by us. 
If we can be of any further assistance, please feel free to 
call on us. 
Sincerely, 
ftiomas R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
: 
Board of Governors of the 

7 8 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
N E W Y O R K , N . Y . 
10045 
I T E M 
N O 
6 
AREA CODE 212 732-5700 
2/28/68 
F e b r u a r y 28, 
1968 
M r . Andrew Choa 
Vice President 
First N a t i o n a l City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New Y o r k , New York 
10022 
Dear M r . Choa: 
We refer to your letters of January 31, 1968, 
and F e b r u a r y 2 3 , 19^8, relating to your request for an 
extension of the time within which your Corporation may 
purchase and hold up to 25 percent of the stock of a N e w 
Zealand finance company, to be formed by the merger of 
Manufacturers & Retailers Acceptance Company and Pacific 
Factors L i m i t e d , both of New Zealand, at a cost of 
approximately U S $ 7 5 0 , 0 0 0 . 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
F e d e r a l Reserve S y s t e m , the F e d e r a l Reserve Bank of New 
Y o r k , acting under delegated authority, extends to 
F e b r u a r y 2 7 , 1969, the time within which this investment 
may be m a d e . 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter b y 
signing and returning the enclosed copy to u s . 
Very truly y o u r s , 
^ L . E . Quackenbush 
Assistant Vice President 
Enclosure 

7 
COPY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 5 
2/28/68 
F e b r u a r y 2 8 , 1968 
Mr. C. F. Karch, President 
The Cleveland Truat Company 
Cleveland, Ohio 
Dear Mr. Karch: 
The application of your bank, dated January IS, 1968, for 
permission to establiah an out-of-town branch at 2581 1 Euclid Avenue, 
Euclid, Cuyahoga County, Ohio, has been reviewed by this bank. 
Upon 
investigstion, the Federal Reserve Bsnk of Cleveland finds that the capital 
of the bank is adequate, that its management is satisfactory, that the pro-
posed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and 
that it will not tend to create an undesirable, competitive situation. 
Accord-
ingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
hereby approves the establishment of a drive-in, out-of-town branch by 
your bank at 25811 Euclid Avenue, provided the branch is establiahed 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
On the day operations are atarted, will you pleaae advise us 
by letter that the branch has been officially opened for business. 
Very truly yours, 
H. W. Huning 
Vice President 
