: \ 
• • 
1 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 17, 1967 
• 
-
V 
; 

4 3 f i 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 17, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
V 5* •, 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics!./ 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance!./ 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
c°pies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Koch, 
Partee, and Keir of the Division of Research and Statistics and 
Sammons of the Division of International Finance then withdrew 
the meeting, as did Mr. Morgan, and the following entered: 
—' Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 
•' -n't , . ; . 

v 4396 
11/17/67 
-2-
Mr. Sanders and Miss Hart of the Legal Division 
Mr. Shull of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. McClintock of the Division of Examinations 
Foreign banking matters. The following items were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had 
been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the 
respective numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to The Bank of New York International 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to its acquisition of the shares of 
a nominee company (The Bank of New York 
(Nominees) Ltd.) to be organized under the 
laws of the United Kingdom. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
2 
y°rk approving the opening and maintenance on 
Its books of an account in the name of the 
B*nk of Uganda. 
Legislative program. As recommended in a memorandum from 
/ 
the Legal Division dated November 15, 1967, the Board authorized the 
staff to advise the White House by telephone that the Board had no 
sugge 
stions with respect to legislative proposals that the President 
mlght submit at the opening of the next session of the Congress or 
wi-th respect to other materials that might be included in the State 
o f the Union Message. 
(Note: A confirming letter was sent to the 
Whi-te House in the form attached as Item No. 3.) 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
^raft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 

4397 
11/17/67 
-3-
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Dalton, Dalton, Ohio, into The National Bank of Orrville, Orrville, 
Ohio. The conclusion stated that the overall competitive effect of 
the proposed merger would be slightly adverse. 
It was noted that the conclusions of the Board's staff 
were based to some extent on findings of the Research Department of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland that were not reflected in 
the proposed report, and there was agreement that those points should 
be covered in the text of the report. 
With a revision thus agreed upon, unanimous approval was 
given to the transmittal of the report to the Comptroller. 
Real estate purchases. Consideration of a letter proposed 
to be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks specifying types of information 
that should be furnished in requesting Board approval of proposed 
Purchases of real estate was deferred in light of a view expressed by 
Governor Sherrill that more emphasis should be placed in the letter 
the desirability of obtaining an appraisal in each instance. 
Margin regulations. On October 20, 1967, the Board published 
a Notice of proposed rule making relating to a new regulation to 
control securities credit extended by lenders other than banks, 
brokers, and dealers (to be designated Regulation G) and proposed 
ai^endments to Regulation T (Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members of 
^ational Securities Exchanges) and Regulation U (Loans by Banks for 

4398 
11/17/67 
-4-
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks) designed 
mostly to restrict practices through which excessive credit might 
flow into the security markets. The Board invited comments by 
November 20. 
By letter dated November 9, 1967, the Investment Bankers 
Association of America requested that the time for comment be extended 
for thirty days to allow the Association additional time in which to 
study the proposals. 
There had been distributed a draft reply indicating that 
while it was believed the stated deadline would provide sufficient 
time in most cases, the Board's staff would not be able to begin its 
analysis of comments received until after November 20, that the 
analysis would take some time, and that any comments or suggestions 
deceived while the staff analysis was in progress would be taken into 
consideration. 
It was the staff's understanding that the Investment Bankers 
Association wished to set up a committee at its meeting on November 30 
t o consider the proposed changes, which raised the question whether 
assistance that the Board might receive from the suggestions of 
Such a committee would offset the disadvantage of granting a formal 
extension of time, including a prolonging of uncertainty in the 
securities markets. 

• 4 3 9 < J 
11/17/67 
-5-
It was the view of the Board that there was an element of 
urgency in the proposals and that it would not be desirable to grant 
a formal extension of the deadline for receipt of comments. Accordingly, 
it was agreed that the Investment Bankers Association should be urged 
to submit its comments as expeditiously as possible and should be 
assured that such comments would be considered if received prior to 
the time the proposals were acted upon by the Board. 
The reply to the Association was then approved unanimously 
the form attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board then went into executive session, after which the 
meeting recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 12:35 p.m. with 
Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and Sherrill present. 
Staff members in attendance included Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Holland, 
Fauver, Koch, and Sammons, along with Messrs. Hersey and Bryant of the 
division of International Finance. 
British situation. The Chairman reported on the status, as 
understood it, of negotiations looking toward the arrangement of an 
^ternational package of credit assistance for the United Kingdom, 
deluding the part that the United States would be expected to play. 
had now been suggested, he said, that the Federal Reserve swap line 
With the Bank of England be increased by $500 million, a move that 
w°uld not be pleasing to Mr. Coombs, Special Manager of the System 
°Pen Market Account, who felt that the line was already quite heavy. 

* 
4 4 0 0 
11/17/67 
-6-
Although it was not entirely clear, apparently this action would be 
in substitution for the actions that he (Chairman Martin) had been 
authorized by the Federal Open Market Committee to make operational 
in his discretion. 
(Note: At its meeting on November 14 the Committee 
had made two amendments to its authorization for System foreign 
currency operations, in each case effective as of the date of a 
determination by Chairman Martin that such action was in accordance 
with the position of the U.S. in the negotiations concerning credit 
assistance to the U.K.; one of the amendments increased from $200 
million to $300 million equivalent the limit on System Account holdings 
°f sterling purchased on a covered or guaranteed basis and the other 
increased from $200 million to $350 million equivalent the limit on 
outstanding forward commitments to deliver foreign currencies to the 
Exchange Stabilization Fund.) On the other hand, the Chairman said, 
it might be that this was something the Federal Reserve would be asked 
t o undertake as a supplement to the $1 billion package of credit 
assistance previously discussed, $500 million of which would be 
Supplied by the U.S. and $250 million each by the Germans and the 
Italians. In any event, he understood that the Germans and Italians 
Were not happy with matters as they stood, so it would be necessary 
t o continue to negotiate. 
If matters worked out, the Chairman added, there would be 
ari announcement tonight, or certainly by Monday morning, of additional 

' 4401 
11/17/67 
-7-
credit assistance to the British, and that presumably would stabilize 
the market sufficiently until the International Monetary Fund had had 
an opportunity to work out a proposed $1.4 billion standby credit 
arrangement. The executive directors of the Fund were to meet over 
the weekend to consider that matter. 
The Chairman went on to say that in his judgment the British 
authorities had already made a decision with respect to the pound 
sterling and information on that decision would become known on a 
confidential bas is this afternoon. If that was so, the question was 
what step or steps the Board should take in the circumstances. For 
°ne thing, the Chairman noted, it would be vital to ascertain what, 
If any, action other countries were going to take with respect to 
the parity of their currencies. He had already been in touch with 
several central bank governors and planned to be in touch with a 
dumber of others as developments unfolded. 
Chairman Martin suggested that perhaps the Board should plan 
to meet Sunday to decide on a course of action, and Governor Robertson 
said that he thought plans were in readiness within the Board's 
organization to permit the organization to function effectively 
under any circumstances. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
a t 2:00 p.m. with Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
a n d Sherrill again present, along with Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Holland, 
Pa 
auver, Sammons, Hersey, and Bryant of the staff. 

' 440 
11/17/67 
-8-
British situation. After stressing the degree of confiden-
tiality attached to the situation, Chairman Martin read a copy of a 
message that had been received by the Secretary of the Treasury from 
the British Chancellor of the Exchequer. The message contained advice 
of a determination by the British authorities that the pound sterling 
must be devalued. Accordingly, the par value was being reduced from 
$2.80 to $2.40, a reduction of 14.3 per cent, and the action would be 
announced Saturday afternoon, effective immediately. Monday would be 
declared a bank holiday. Also, a request had been made of the Inter-
national Monetary Fund that a meeting of the executive directors be 
arranged before noon on Saturday. 
Chairman Martin was called from the room during the reading 
the message, and the reading of the document was continued by 
Governor Robertson. The message outlined a series of new austerity 
m^asures on which the British authorities had decided, these being 
designed to fortify the new sterling rate and achieve needed internal 
and external economic adjustments. The measures included a substantial 
(but unspecified) increase in the discount rate of the Bank of England. 
When the reading of the message had been concluded, Chairman 
Martin commented that he had merely wanted the other members of the 
Board to be informed and that there would not appear to be any action 
tbat should be taken at the moment. He then suggested that the Board 
might want to be prepared to meet on Sunday depending on how developments 
unfolded. 

4403 
11/17/67 
-9-
The Chairman was again called from the room at this point, 
this time to receive an emissary from the Bank of England, and during 
his absence Governor Robertson suggested that it might be well for 
the Board to plan to meet tomorrow afternoon, particularly if consider-
ation was going to be given to an increase in the Federal Reserve 
discount rate. For purposes of discussion and further study, he 
distributed copies of a draft of a statement such as the Board might 
Want to issue at the appropriate time. The statement was designed to 
display confidence in the economic and financial strength of the United 
States and to provide assurance that the Federal Reserve was prepared 
to take any necessary action. The statement presumed an increase in 
the Reserve Bank discount rate and brought out that use of the discount 
window in making adjustments to market pressures was an appropriate 
U se of the discount mechanism. 
There followed a series of suggestions with respect to the 
Proposed statement and Governor Robertson observed that as things now 
stood it seemed that if the Board decided to issue such a statement, 
the statement should be available for use in the Sunday papers. 
The Chairman then returned to the room and was filled in 
011 the discussion that had occurred in his absence. After reading 
the draft statement, he indicated that he would have it in hand in 
c°nnection 
with further discussions that were to be held within the 
Government. He would not cite the statement as anything to which 

4404 
11/17/67 
-10-
the Board was committed, but only as a document reflecting the Board's 
tentative thinking. 
Chairman Martin went on to refer to the visit he had 
received from the Bank of England official and said he had alerted 
President Hayes of the New York Reserve Bank to the fact that the 
same person intended to go on to New York to meet with President 
Hayes later this afternoon. The Chairman also referred to plans that 
were being made for conversations with a view to urging other foreign 
governments to hold their exchange rates steady. 
At the Chairman s request, Mr. Holland commented briefly 
on developments today in the Government securities market, after which 
the meeting adjourned. 
:':./; 
. . . 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 5 
is a copy of a letter sent today to the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of 
New York approving the 
payment of salary to Peter D. Sternlight as 
Assistant Vice President during the period 
November 12 through December 31, 1967, at 
the annual rate fixed by the Bank's direc-
tors. The letter was sent pursuant to the 
understanding at the meetings on November 2 
and 3, 1967, when reports were made to the 
Board, on the basis of oral advice from 
the New York Reserve Bank, concerning the 
arrangements that were being made in respect 
to Mr. Sternlight. 
•v.; : 
•U ( 
• W 
£ * •; 
S 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Data Processing dated November 15, 
recommending approval of (1) a contract with Hoppmann Corporation, 
Springfield, Virginia, for a new projection system as a means of improving 

4405 
11/17/67 
-11-
Board chart shows and other graphic presentations, and (2) the required 
power installation and an adjustable lighting control for the Board 
Room. (Provision for the Hoppmann contract ($13,926) had been included 
in the 1967 budget of the Division of Data Processing, and provision 
for the other work (estimated at $6,800) was to be included in the 
1968 budget of the Division of Administrative Services.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration 
dated November 17, 1967, recommending the retention of Susan M. Callens 
as Substitute Nurse on a contractual basis at the rate of $32 per day 
for each day worked. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
increases, effective November 19, 1967 
Name and title 
Division 
Basic annual salary 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
Mary H. B. Hi Hard, Economist 
Robert S. McClellan, Economist 
Gloria J. Ogden, Secretary 
$ 7,696 
9,536 
6,664 
$ 7,957 
9,851 
6,877 
Examinations 
William E. Rumbarger, Review Examiner 
Administrative Services 
Evelyn C. Hill, Cafeteria Helper 
Carrie Lee Hobson, Cafeteria Helper 
William L. McCoy, Guard 
Carthell H. Taliaferro, Messenger 
10,481 
3,609 
3,609 
4,557 
3,609 
10,796 
3,731 
3,731 
4,701 
3,731 
transfers 
Raymond A. Adams, from Messenger to Lead Messenger, Division 
Administrative Services, effective December 1, 1967. 
Gloria Chapuis, from Keypunch Operator, Division of Data 
Processing, to Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective upon assuming her new duties. 

4406 
-12-
Transfers (continued) 
; ' • " 
Kathaleen Nickens, Stenographer, from the Division of 
Personnel Administration to the Division of Examinations, effective 
November 19, 1967. 
Martha G. Roe, Stenographer, from the Division of Personnel 
Administration to the Office of the Secretary, effective November 19, 
1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Linda Mae Maney, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and 
Stati sties, effective the close of business December 15, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board memoranda advising that 
Ethelyn M. Palmer, Secretary in the Divi-
sion of Administrative Services, and 
James Harvie Newton, Lead Messenger in 
the Division of Administrative Services, 
had filed applications for retirement 
effective December 1, 1967. 
With the concurrence of Governor Robertson, 
the following item was approved today on 
behalf of the Board by Mr. Shepardson: 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
October 31, 1967, recommending the establishment of a new position in 
Special Studies and Operations Section in connection with the 
establishment of a data processing function in that Division. 
11/17/67 

' 
i 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
4407 
Item No. 1 
11/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 17, 1967. 
The Bank of New York 
International Corporation, 
48 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
* 
Gentlemen: 
1 
• . 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of October 16, 1967, the Board of Governors grants its consent to 
the purchase by your Corporation of all the shares of a nominee 
company to be organized under the laws of the United Kingdom, at 
a cost of approximately US$280. 
It is understood that the nominee corporation is to be 
organized and maintained solely for the purpose of acting as 
nominee for the handling of registered securities acquired or held 
by the London branch of The Bank of New York for the account of its 
customers, and that all shares of the nominee corporation are to be 
owned by your Corporation, except such shares as may be required by 
opinion of counsel to qualify directors. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
••••'•yV 

'-ll 
v . 4 4 0 8 
Item No. 2 
11/17/67 
* >•• jx*; • , 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
• 
• ' 
- f:< •;•:•• •. 
.
.
. 
November 17, 1967 
av;. 
I 
• 
i l l ' ' : 
MARTENSON - NEW YORK 
\\ 
. • 
3 > * 'if 
»•* 
Your wire of November 16. Board approves opening and maintenance 
°f an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 
- 
' j . 
the name of Bank of Uganda, subject to usual terms and conditions, 
is understood that participation in this account will be offered 
jir: . 
j.fi, ; 
-t , t, 
other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(signed) Merritt Sherman 
SHERMAN 
i V'^'Mh 
• mv 
. "> ,4 J 

4409 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
O F THE: 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 3 
11/17/67 
OFFICE OF THE 
C H A I R M A N 
November 20, 1967 
Mr. Joseph A. Califano, Jr., 
Special Assistant to the President, 
The White House. 
Dear Mr. Califano: 
This is in response to the President's memorandum of 
October 30, 1967, concerning legislative proposals for Presidential 
submission at the opening of the new session of the Congress and 
for material for inclusion in the forthcoming State of the Union 
Address. 
The Board of Governors has no recommendations on these 
matters. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

4410 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
11/17/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 19, 1967. 
Mr. H. Lawrence Bogert, President, 
Investment Bankers Association of America, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Dear Mr. Bogert: 
This refers to your letter of November 9, 1967, regarding 
the notice of proposed rules as to the use of credit in stock market 
transactions, released by the Board of Governors on October 20, 1967, 
in which you ask that the time for comment on the proposals be 
extended by thirty days. 
The Board welcomes the fullest possible discussion of its 
proposed rules and will carefully consider any comment your 
Association wishes to submit. However, it was believed that the 
time originally allowed would be sufficient in most cases and that 
it might be inadvisable to prolong unduly a state of uncertainty in 
the securities markets as to what final action should be anticipated. 
For the same reasons, the Board is reluctant to defer the announced 
date by which comments should be received. 
The Board is, nevertheless, most desirous of receiving any 
comments or suggestions that might be helpful in further considera-
tion of its proposals. Since the review and analysis of those already 
received and to be received within the next few days will require some 
little time, it is hoped that you will be able to transmit such views 
a s you may have just as quickly as possible. You may be sure any 
comments received up until the Board actually takes up the proposals 
for action will be appreciated and considered. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
C°Py to Mr. Gordon Calvert 

4411 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 5 
11/17/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 17, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. Peter D. Sternlight as an Assistant Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York at the rate of $28,000 per annum 
for the period November 12 through December 31, 1967. This is 
the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as reported in your 
letter of November 8, 1967. 
Very truly yours 
(signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 
