MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 27, 1971 

10 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 27, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Par tee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
U 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Ha 1ley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Bouck, Consultant 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, 
St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on April 22, 1971, of 
the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board approved unanimously a report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Farmers' State Bank of Dalmatia, Dalmatia, Pennsylvania, into 
Millersburg Trust Company, Millersburg, Pennsylvania. 
The conclusion 
read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Farmers' State Bank 
of Dalmatia and Millersburg Trust Company would eliminate a small 
amount of existing competition; however, in view of the sparsely 
populated, mountainous character of the region between the pro-
ponents, the potential for greater competition appears to be 
negligible. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
The Board approved unanimously a telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis authorizing, subject to certain conditions, the 
availability to the Federal Bureau of Investigation of information obtained 
in connection with the examination of First State Bank, Richey, Montana. 
A copy of the telegram is attached as Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to a suggestion by the Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion in a memorandum dated April 26, 1971, the Board approved unanimously 
a postponement of the effective date of Title III of the Foreign Bank 
Secrecy Act, which otherwise would have become effective May 1, 1971. 
A copy of the notice sent to the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 2. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to a 
report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
°n the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Peoples 
National Bank of Barre, Barre, Vermont, into Chittenden Trust Company, 
Burlington, Vermont. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the merger of Chittenden Trust Company and 
The Peoples National Bank of Barre would eliminate present and 
potential competition between them and would concentrate in the 
resulting institution about one-third of the total deposits in 
the market area. The overall effect on competition would be 
substantially adverse. 
City and County Bank. On April 8, 1971, the Board deferred 
a c
t i o n on the application made on behalf of City and County Bank of 
Powell, Powell, Tennessee, (a proposed new bank), for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System to determine the current view of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
(In December 1970 the Regional Director of the 

m 
102*7 
uy 
in,. 
4/27/71 
-4-
' 
If 
' ' 
i 
if I 
Corporation had indicated that he would recommend denial of the 
application of the bank for deposit insurance, and that application 
was withdrawn.) 
In a memorandum dated April 21, 1971, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation reported that the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation had expressed an unfavorable view regarding the bank with 
respect to its future earnings prospects, the general character of its 
management, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
The Division reiterated its view that the application should be denied 
solely on the basis of the management factor, but recommended that the 
applicant be given an opportunity to withdraw the application. 
5 
It was agreed that the application should be denied, on the 
basis of the management factor, but that an opportunity should be 
afforded for withdrawal. 
(Secretary's Note: The application was sub-
• -'vV 
' 
& 
sequently withdrawn.) 
National Development Bank. The Office of Management and Budget 
• 
" 
had requested the Board's views on bills (H.R. 3550 and S. 580) to 
establish a National Development Bank. 
In a memorandum dated April 20, 
1971, the Division of Research and Statistics summarized and evaluated 
the provisions of the bills. The Division's appraisal of the major 
issues involved was reflected in an attached draft letter. 
: t: 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
Governor Brimmer had suggested extensive changes in the draft 
letter in a memorandum dated April 23, pointing out that whereas the 
objective of the House bill was directed toward the establishment and 
expansion of small and medium sized businesses, the Senate bill proposed 
to provide loans for the establishment of new businesses and industries 
and the expansion and improvement of existing ones. Thus he believed 
that the Senate bill recognized better the need to distinguish between 
job opportunities and entrepreneural opportunities, and deserved a more 
encouraging response. 
In discussion views were expressed that small businesses were 
only a marginal source of job creation, that subsidies to large businesses 
to aid job creation would be more effective, and that present subsidies 
for that purpose had not produced significant results. 
Views also were 
expressed in favor of expanding the authority and resources of existing 
agencies rather than creating a new one or, as an alternative, trans-
ferring existing programs to a new agency. 
It was also suggested that 
the Board's response be limited to offering the best advice possible on 
the difficulties seen in the provisions of the present bills, without 
a
ttempting to formulate a different structure. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the staff was requested to 
prepare a revised draft of response as a basis for further consideration 
b
y the Board. 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
Revenue bonds. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to the 
Chairman of the Senate Committee on Public Works responding to his request 
for views on an amendment proposed by Senator Proxmire to S. 523 (a bill 
to amend the Federal Water Pollution Control Act); the amendment would 
permit commercial banks to underwrite and deal in State and local revenue 
bonds for the construction of water and sewer services. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
American Financial Corporation. An irrevocable declaration of 
intent to cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 1981, by 
divesting its bank (The Provident Bank, Cincinnati, Ohio) had been sub-
mitted by American Financial Corporation, also of Cincinnati. 
The Corpo-
ration had now filed notices, pursuant to section 4(c)(12) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, of its intent to acquire shares of Liberty Mortgage 
Insurance Corporation, Springfield, Ohio, and The Cincinnati Enquirer. 
In a memorandum dated April 23, 1971, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation expressed the view that there were no considerations that 
suggested that the acquisitions should not be permitted. Unless the 
a
pplicant was notified to the contrary, approval would be automatic on 
May 13, 1971, but for reasons set forth in the memorandum, it was contem-
plated that the newspaper would be acquired on May 7. The major subsid-
iaries of the applicant, other than The Provident Bank, were engaged in 
s a
vings and loan business, equipment leasing, office building operations, 
H f e and casualty insurance, and residential and commercial construction. 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
Discussion centered on a question raised by Governor Brimmer 
regarding the kind of analysis that should be available in considering 
notices of proposed acquisitions submitted by a holding company that had 
filed an irrevocable declaration of its intention to cease to be a bank 
holding company by 1981. The problem was recognized as being divisible 
into two parts. The first question had to do with whether the proposed 
acquisition would have anticompetitive consequences such as to warrant 
the interposing of an objection. 
The second question had to do with 
whether the existing structure of such a holding company presented anti-
competitive aspects concerning which some action was believed to be 
warranted. 
It was suggested that in the latter event the appropriate 
course would be referral of the matter to the Department of Justice for 
consideration of action under the antitrust laws. 
In the immediate case before the Board, it was the view that there 
was a lack of evidence from the information available to suggest that there 
would be reason to interpose objection to the proposed acquisitions. 
As 
to the existing holding company structure, it was noted that the staff 
did not find evidence of anticompetitive aspects, although some feeling 
was expressed that the analysis was not entirely adequate to permit an 
informed judgment. 
It was understood that the staff would study further the broader 
questions relating to this kind of situation that had been suggested by 
the comments made during today's discussion. 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
The Board then noted without objection the notices of intent 
to acquire the two additional subsidiaries, and it was understood that 
the holding company would be so informed. A press release was subse-
quently issued in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Pending cases under section 4(c)(8). 
In a memorandum dated 
April 19, 1971, the Legal Division pointed out that at the time of pas-
sage of the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970 there were pend-
ing before the Board the following applications for determinations under 
section 4(c)(8) on which hearings had been held: 
Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc., to acquire shares in 
B-G Service Corp. (an insurance agency) and Aspen 
Industrial Bank; 
Citizens and Southern National Bank, to extend to 
correspondent banks certain financial and insurance 
services at present provided by its wholly-owned 
subsidiary, Citizens & Southern Credit Service Corp., 
to Cit izens and Southern subsidiary banks only; and 
Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, 
to acquire shares in Mid America Insurance Agency, Inc. 
For reasons stated in the memorandum, the Division recommended that in 
each of these cases a notice of opportunity for further hearing be pub-
J. i, r ? • . . 
~ 
, 
, 
., 
H s h e d , in order that the cases might be processed under the requirements 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended. 
The recommendation was unanimously approved. 
Copies of the 
Notices of opportunity for hearing sent to the Federal Register are 
attached as Items 5, 6. and 7, respectively. 
Chairman Burns then withdrew. 

1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
Foreign operations of U.S. banks. The Foreign Operations Task 
Force, in a memorandum dated April 6, 1971, outlined a proposed study 
of foreign operations of U.S. banks and reported on preliminary investiga-
tions already undertaken. 
The memorandum included a summary of develop-
ments in international banking activities of U.S. banks during the past 
decade, identification of principal issues to be considered by the Board, 
and identification of other studies, largely empirical, that were needed 
as a basis for policy recommendations. 
A memorandum dated April 26, 1971, from Mr. Robert Solomon con-
tained estimates of time and cost involved in the proposed study, and 
recommended that the Task Force be authorized to proceed, as high-priority 
Projects, with the formulation of (a) draft guidelines for foreign opera-
tions through bank holding companies; (b) draft guidelines on the question 
°f the extent to which banks should be permitted to have Edge subsidiaries 
in multiple locations in the U.S.; (c) draft guidelines on expansion of 
U
« S . banks into functions abroad not customary for banks in the U.S.; and 
(d) possible distinctions in Board supervision and regulation between 
different forms of organization. 
Discussion included comments on the need for early decisions regard-
ing 
various issues inherent in the studies that the staff had recommended 
giving high priority, and an observation that the problem presented an 
% a m p l e of conflict between long and short-range objectives. 
Although 
k*J§te w a s 
n o question of the urgency of the short-range issues, the 
V a
lidity of conclusions drawn with respect to them could not be certain 
u
ntii the longer-range studies were completed. 

i o n r 
4/27/71 
-10-
After further discussion the Board agreed with the staff that 
the four tasks listed in the April 26 memorandum should be given priority, 
but with the understanding that work on the broader study should also 
proceed as rapidly as possible. 
Governor Sherrill referred to the estimates, set forth in the 
April 26 memorandum, concerning the resources that might be required for 
the completion of the study. 
It had been suggested that the papers 
enumerated in connection with the study would require roughly 40 man-
months. 
No additions to staff were contemplated, but if several of the 
papers were prepared by consultants, total expenses for consultants 
(plus possible seminars) might total $30,000. 
Governor Sherrill noted 
that the estimates were necessarily rough, but that they gave some idea 
of what might be involved. No objections were indicated. 
Discount rate communications. A memorandum of April 16, 1971, 
from the Office of the Secretary referred to the Board's approval in 
Principle (on March 17) of a report of the Presidents' Conference Com-
mittee on Discounts and Credits regarding improvement of communications 
with respect to the discount rate. 
It had been the Board's view, how-
l e r , that discussions about a specific discount rate should take place 
at meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee rather than in the forum 
°f Conference meetings. 
Two proposed letters were attached to the memo-
randum. The first would inform the Conference of Presidents of the Board' 
action and would transmit a draft of the second, which would be addressed 
t o
 the Reserve Bank Presidents over the Chairman's signature and would 

J 
1031 
4/27/71 
-11-
deal with what directors should be told specifically about open market 
policy. 
Discussion developed agreement that the second letter should 
be recast in the form of an official Board letter and that it should 
be placed on the agenda for discussion at a meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. With that understanding, the sending of the first 
letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
Meeting schedule. Mr. Holland informed the Board of reasons 
why the Chairman had decided to reschedule the forthcoming meeting of 
the Federal Open Market Committee from Tuesday, May 4, to Tuesday, 
May 11, and to defer the meeting of the Federal Advisory Council, which 
had been scheduled for May 6 and 7, probably until dates some time in 
June. 
The reasons related principally to the probability that civil 
disturbances would occur in Washington during the week that the meetings 
had been scheduled. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew at this point, and 
Mr. Holland outlined the general security precautions that were planned 
in connection with the demonstrations scheduled to take place in the city 
during the coming week. 
The Board then discussed the status of negotiations to obtain a 
suitable individual to fill the vacant position of President of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

T E L E G R A M
 
1 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
4-/Z///I 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
April 27, 1971 
1035 
Gable - Minneapolis 
Board has authorized availability to Federal Bureau of Investigation 
of the records and documents in the possession of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis relative to the possible criminal 
violations at a State member bank as referred in your recent 
telegram, with the stipulation that such records and documents 
a
re to be used for investigatory purposes only. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
KENYON 

103G 
Item No. 2 
4/27/71 
PEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Parts 207, 220, 221] 
[Regs. G, T , and U] 
MARGIN REQUIREMENTS ON SECURITIES TRANSACTIONS 
Effective Date of Requirements as to Borrowers 
Pursuant to the authority contained in section 401(c), 
Title IV, of Public Law 91-508, 84 Stat. 1125, the amendments made 
by Title III of that legislation shall become effective on a date 
to be specified in regulations to be issued hereafter by the 
Board of Governors. That date, as prescribed in section 401(c), 
shall be not later than November 1, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 27, 1971. 
i 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

±037 
Item No. 3 
4/27/71 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
'•rffee^' 
April 28, 1971 
The Honorable Jennings Randolph 
Chairman 
Committee on Public Works 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
* am writing in response to your request for the Board's views on 
Al^endment Number 8 to S. 523. 
Xh 
e amendment would permit national banks to underwrite (and 
[ 6 m ° v e the Federal prohibition on State member banks underwriting) 
Vestment grade revenue bonds issued by a State or political sub-
b o V i s i ° n for water or sewer purposes, as long as the amount of 
^ n d s of the same issuer held by the bank as underwriter or dealer 
n 0 t e x c e e d 
1 0 P e r cent of its capital and surplus. 
Federal law 
.^esently permits member banks to underwrite such revenue bonds 
t^ S U e d f o r housing, university, or dormitory purposes, subject to 
same 10-per cent limit. 
Otherwise, the only obligations issued 
^ a State or political subdivision that may be underwritten by a 
rnber bank are general obligations--that is, obligations supported 
general taxing powers. 
Those obligations may be underwritten 
U h°ut limitation. 
n a t i Q 6 7 
t H e 
B
o
a
r
d 
s u P P o r t e d a bill (S. 1306) that would have authorized 
i^g 
b anks to underwrite and deal in all revenue bonds. 
In support-
Pote 
a t b i l 1 t I l e B o a r d suggested including provisions designed to avoid 
s U c h 
l a i conflicts of interests in banks underwriting and dealing in 
p t e s o b i igations. 
I am enclosing a copy of the statement on S. 1306 
S e r i a t e n t e d b y Governor Mitchell on behalf of the Board before the 
e Banking Committee's Subcommittee on Financial Institutions. 

1038 
•t "'•'' X ' . 
r 
The Honorable Jennings Randolph 
For the reasons indicated in Governor Mitchell's statement, the 
Board supports Amendment Number 8. 
However, as in 1967, it 
believes that appropriate limitations, such as those mentioned on 
page 4 of Governor Mitchell's statement, should be added to protect 
against potential conflicts of interest. 
Finally, you will note that Governor Mitchell emphasized the 
"considerable element of judgment" in the Federal Reserve staff 
analysis of the potential cost advantages to issuers of permitting 
increased underwriting competition. 
Since 1967, financial markets 
have been through several periods of uncertainty and rapidly changing 
yields that make virtually impossible an evaluation of the market impact 
°f the 1968 Congressional authorization for national banks to underwrite 
housing, university, and dormitory revenue bonds. 
Variations in 
Market conditions significantly affect the number of bids, reoffering 
sPreads, and reoffering yield differentials on all State and local bonds. 
WJ11 
Sincerely yours, 
L 
Arthur F. Burns 
Snclb sure 
j -
".that; «:• 

Item No. 4 
4/27/71 
For immediate release 
May 6, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that it has processed the first request received from a bank holding 
company to acquire a nonbanking business under the 1970 amendments to the 
Bank Holding Company Act. 
In the first case under Section 4(c) 12 of the Act, the Board 
permitted the American Financial Corporation, Cincinnati, Ohio, to acquire 
the Cincinnati Enquirer pursuant to settlement of an anti-trust case in 
which the owners of the Enquirer, a Scripps-Howard Newspaper, were re-
quired to sell their majority interest. 
Section 4(c) 12 of the Bank Holding Company Act permits a company 
which became a bank holding company by virtue of the 1970 amendments to 
acquire shares of any company--subject to conditions prescribed by the 
Board-- so long as it divests itself by January 1, 1981 of either its bank 
o r
 of activities unrelated to banking. 
Under regulatory procedures spelled out by the Board, a company 
that files an irrevocable declaration in the form approved by the Board 
t
^at it will cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 1981, may 
e
^ter upon a newly launched activity either directly or through a new sub-
s in ' 
aiary without further action by the Board unless the company's authority 
t o
 do so is suspended by the Board. 
A company that has filed an irrevocable declaration may also 
a
c q u i r e a going concern unless the Board notifies it to the contrary 

-2-
1040 
within 45 days after receipt of notice of a proposal, or the company is 
permitted to make the acquisition at an earlier date. 
American Financial Corporation has one subsidiary bank--The 
Provident Bank, Cincinnati—and has filed with the Board an irrevocable 
declaration of intent to cease to be a bank holding company by January 1, 
1981. 
-0-

1041 
Item No. 5 
4/27/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Docket No, BHC-110] 
COLORADO CNB BANKSHARES, INC. 
Notice of Opportunity for Hearing 
In the matter bf the application of Colorado CNB Bankshares, 
Inc., for a determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, respecting the planned activities of B-G Service Corp. 
^nd Aspen Industrial Bank, proposed subsidiaries. 
On October 15, 1970, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System ordered a hearing to be held commencing on December 1, 1970, at the 
Denver Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, pursuant to sec-
tion 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), 
u
poa the request of Colorado CNB Bankshares, Inc,, Denver, Colorado, whose 
name has been changed to Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., a bank hold-
ing company, for a determination that the activities of its proposed sub-
d i a r i e s , B-G Service Corp„ and Aspen Industrial Bank, are or are to be 
the kind described in the aforementioned provisions of the Act, 
Federal Register 16492) 
On December 1, 1970, pursuant to said Order, a hearing was held 
this matter before John Poindexter (whose address is Federal Trade 
C o t C m i
S3ion, 6th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C.), 
a
 faring examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to 
8 e c t
i o n 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code. The record made at said 
h e a
r i n g h a g b e s n 
d u l y 
f l l e d 
w i t h 
the Board c 

1042 
- 2 -
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act was substantively amended 
on December 31, 1970, by the passage of the Bank Holding Company Act 
Amendments of 1970, and section 4(c)(8) as amended is controlling with 
respect to the issues to be determined in this matter: 
It is hereby ordered, That, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act, as amended, Notice of Opportunity for Hearing is hereby given. Any 
Person desiring further hearings in this matter on the question whether the 
acquisitions of B-G Service Corp. and Aspen Industrial Bank by Colorado 
National Bankchares, Inc., are so closely related to banking or managing 
controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, including whether 
Performance by an affiliate of Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., of the 
a c
tivities proposed can reasonably be expected to produce benefits to the 
Publi C j such as greater convenience, increased competition, or gains in 
e
fficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undue concen-
t r
ation of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests, 
Oy* 
unsound banking practices, shall file a written request containing a 
8 t
atement of the person's interest in this proceeding, a summary of any 
Otters concerning which said person wishes to give evidence, and a 
giving the reasons underlying the necessity for a further 
faring in this proceeding. The record in this proceeding may be in-
jected at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street and Constitution 
A v e
nue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 

Any such request for hearing shall be submitted in writing 
to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than 20 days from 
the date of the issuance of this Notice, 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1G4£ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/27/71*
 
6 
[Docket No. BHC-99] 
THE CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN NATIONAL BANK and 
THE CITIZENS AND SOUTHERN HOLDING COMPANY 
Notice of Opportunity for Hearing 
In the matter of the applications of The Citizens and 
Southern National Bank and The Citizens and Southern Holding Company, 
for a determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, respecting the planned activities of their non-bank sub-
sidiary, The Citizens 6c Southern Credit Service Corporation. 
On September 22, 1969, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System ordered a hearing to be held commencing on November 20, 
1969, 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, pursuant 
to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1843(c)(8)), upon the request of The Citizens and Southern National Bank 
ar
*d The Citizens and Southern Holding Company, for a determination that 
planned activities of their non-bank subsidiary, The Citizens & 
Southern Credit Service Corporation, are or are to be of the kind de-
scribed 
in the aforementioned provisions of the Act. (34 Federal 
Agister 14916) 
On November 20, 1969, pursuant to said Order, a hearing was 
in this matter before Leonard J 0 Ralston (whose address 
Small 
B u
9iness Administration, 1441 L Street, N. W., W M ^ M ^ t Q ^ D. C.)y a 
faring examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to 
S e c
tion 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code. The record made at 
S a i
d hearing has been duly filed with the Board. 

-2-
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act was substantively 
i 
* 
amended on December 31, 1970, by the passage of the Bank Holding 
Company Act Amendments of 1970, and section 4(c)(8) as amended is 
controlling with respect to the issues to be determined in this matter: 
It is hereby ordered, That, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of 
the Act, as amended, Notice of Opportunity for Hearing is hereby given. 
Any person desiring further hearings in this matter on the question 
whether the proposed activities of The Citizens and Southern National 
Sank and The Citizens and Southern Holding Company, and The Citizens & 
Southern Credit Service Corporation, are so closely related to banking 
0 r
 managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, 
including whether performance by an affiliate of The Citizens and 
Southern National Bank and The Citizens and Southern Holding Company 
the activities proposed can reasonably be expected to produce benefits 
t o
 the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or 
Sains i n efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as 
Undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, con-
victs of interests, or unsound banking practices, shall file a written 
tec
luest containing a statement of the person's interest in this proceed-
a summary of any matters concerning which said person wishes to 
Sive evidence, and a statement giving the reasons underlying the 
n e c
esoity for a further hearing in this proceeding. The record in this 
Proceeding may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street 
j 
Constitution Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 

1046 
-2-
Any such request for hearing shall be submitted in writing 
to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than 20 days from 
the date of the issuance of this Notice, 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
»» 
I v 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 
4/27/71 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Docket No.. BHC-109] 
MID AMERICA BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Notice of Opportunity for Hearing 
In the matter of the application of Mid America Bancorporation 
Inc., for a determination under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, respecting the planned activities of Mid America 
Insurance Agency, a proposed subsidiary. 
On September 25, 1970, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System ordered a hearing to be held commencing on November 3, 
1970, at the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)), upon the request of Mid America Bancorporation, 
Inc., St. Paul, Minnesota, a bank holding company, for a determination 
fc
hat the activities of its proposed subsidiary, Mid America Insurance 
Agency, whose name has been changed to Valley Agency, Inc., are or are 
t o
 be of the kind described in the aforementioned provisions of the Act. 
<
3
5 Federal Register 15426) 
On November 3, 1970, pursuant to said Order, a hearing was 
h e l d
 in this matter before Philip. J. LaMacchia (whose address is U. S. 
C i v
U Service Commission, 1900 E Street, N. W., Washington, D. C.), a 
faring examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission pursuant to 
8 e c
tion 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code. The record made at 
8 Q i d
 hearing has been duly filed with the Board. 

- 2 -
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) was substantively amended on 
December 31, 1970, by the passage of the Bank Holding Company Act Amend-
ments of 1970, and section 4(c)(8) as amended is controlling with respect 
to the issues to be determined in this matter: 
It is hereby ordered, That, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act, as amended, Notice of Opportunity for Hearing is hereby given. 
Any person desiring further hearings in this matter on the question 
whether the proposed activities of Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., 
and Valley Agency, Inc., are so closely related to banking or managing 
Or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, including 
whether performance by an affiliate of Mid America Bancorporation, Inc., 
of the activities proposed can reasonably be expected to produce benefits 
to the public, such as greater convenience, increased competition, or 
gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as 
undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, 
conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices, shall file a 
Written request containing a statement of the person's interest in this 
proceeding, a summary of any matters concerning which said person wishes 
t o
 give evidence, and a statement giving the reasons underlying the 
n
ecessity for a further hearing in this proceeding. The record in this 
Proceeding may be inspected at the Federal Reserve Building, 20th Street 
Constitution Avenue, N. W., Washington, D. C. 

1049 
- 3 -
Any such request for hearing shall be submitted in writing 
to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D. C. 20551, to be received not later than 20 days from 
the date of the issuance of this Notice, 
By order of the Board of Governors, April 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

4 
r> 
b o a r d 
d f 
g d v e r n d r s 
I t e m 
N
o . Y 
_ __
 
O P T H E :
 
4/27/71 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. c . 
20551 
- % 
-'"a \v» . 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O d S E S P Q N C 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R Q 
April 27, 1971 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, Chairman 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
Commit.-^ I
h e
n
B
°
a r d h a S 
c o n s
^ e r e d and discussed the report o^ the 
was approved at the March 8 n o t i n g of the Conference ofPresidents. 
that several o ' f t h n ^ ' 
*
8 r e e S 
W l t h 
t h i s
 
« « * « 
I
"
 
1 
t h c
 
proposals have already been put into 
the proposal for 
= 
Board wishes to cake' invokes 
the ConLrence of p L s L l n t s C U " h n e 0 ^ „ d i S C . 0 U n t T 
" 
° f 
1 
^t-biLenis. While an exchange of views on nrinr-i-
entireW
 
P r
°
C e d u r
" °
f
 
window administration is of course 
entirely appropriate, the Board feels that- h,p™ 
f , , 
, 
for group discussion of the 
U
.
c
^
^
^
l
^
0
^
™
*
' 
priate°for 
f ^ 
^ 
t h " ™t t n * a ° f 
t h o Conference 
an appro-
priate forum for an exchange of views on a specific discount 
rate 
Transmitted herewith is a draft of a left* r t-o 
n 
Bank Presidents dealing with i n f o r m a t i o n ' t h a V m i \ V i ^ 
^ 
rate 
T h e ^ t ^ T ^ l ^
 
t h e l r 
e s t
^lishment°of the'discount 
rate 
The letter has been reviewed in this form by the Board 
and 
it will be placed on the agenda at a forthcoming F O M c L e t i n g inas-
much as approval by that body seems appropriate!
 
§ 
th*
 
C 0 P
,
i G S
 °
f t h i S 
l G t t G r 
a n d 
i t s
 ^closure are being sent to 
the other members of the Conference of Presidents. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
Enclosure 

1051 
D R A F T 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Dear 
: 
As our method of dealing with the discount rate evolves, 
questions have been voiced by a number of Reserve Bank Presidents 
about the role directors should play in deliberations leading to 
establishment of the rate. 
One point in particular has been raised both at the 
Conference of Chairmen and Deputy Chairmen and by some Reserve 
Banks concerning the need of the directors for some measure of 
information about current monetary policy. The Board shares this 
concern. It is surely desirable to provide sufficient information 
about the stance and trend of policy so that the directors can 
effectively discharge their statutory role in the establishment of 
Reserve Bank discount rates. At the same time, it is important to 
be mindful of the need to avoid giving more information than neces-
sary, in order to minimize any possibility of conflicts of interest 
or even appearances of such conflicts. In steering a responsible 
course in this delicate area, the Board feels that the approach in 
providing background information to the directors should be reason-
ably uniform. Accordingly, the following procedure is suggested. 

1052 
-2-
In covering the general economic outlook for your 
directors, you may wish to convey to them the sense of the FOMC 
staff view as you understand it from your attendance at FOMC 
meetings. This should not be identified as an official FOMC 
view of the outlook, but rather as an informed staff judgment. 
In addition to the staff briefing, these men should have the 
benefit of the very latest published policy record of the FOMC. 
Up-to-date data on aggregates and the money market conditions 
can be cited to give directors a view of how relevant variables 
have developed in relation to the goals and projections expressed 
in the latest published policy record. 
In giving the directors information in this way, it 
should be possible to convey a very general idea of the thrust of 
recent policy without telling how the FOMC has acted since the 
latest published information. Thus, the Presidents and other 
appropriate Reserve Bank spokesmen could identify a shortfall or 
an unexpected surge in the aggregates, or unusual credit market 
developments, and could take account of such information when 
formulating a specific recommendation with respect to the discount 
rate. 
Sincerely yours, 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary 
