MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 19, 1968 

4445 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, December 19, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Heller of the Legal Division 
Mr. Smith of the Division of Administrative Services 
Mr. Millea of the Office of the Controller 
1/ Attended opening and other portions of meeting as indicated in minutes. 

4448 
12/19/68 
-2-
Huntington Bancshares. 
Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval on November 27, 1968, of the appli-
cation of Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of The Farmers Bank of Ashland, Ashland, Ohio, was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1. 
First Bank System. 
Issuance of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on November 27, 1968, of the application of First 
Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares of First 
Plymouth National Bank, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a proposed new bank, 
was authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached under 
It_em No. 2. 
Mr. Coyne and Mrs. Heller then withdrew from the meeting. 
Board budget. The series of presentations by division heads 
with respect to the programs of the respective offices and prospective 
budget requirements for 1969 continued at this time with a presenta-
tion by Mr. Harris on behalf of the Office of Defense Planning and a 
review by Mr. Byrne concerning the Division of Data Processing. 
During 
h • .;•-•.
 
:
: • - 
. • c. . 
• 
• , . . i.. . . 
the course of Mr. Byrne's presentation a recess was called to permit 
: • . % ' j'iw : 
. :•. 
: .i: . i
 
;
 , • 
v.r: 
Participation in a Board Christmas program and the meeting reconvened 
• 
;. i. 
., 
^ 
Ui'^r * u i 
se -j.fi'H :i 
r vt r. ^
 !
 .• . I. 
a
t 10:50 a.m. 
I , 
. . 
' 
. 
! 
<.* J 1 < -.1 s»'-« . 
After Mr. Byrne had concluded his remarks the meeting continued 
with Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill present 
along with Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and Hart of the staff. 

4447 
12/19/68 
-3-
Salaries of Presidents arid First Vice Presidents. 
The Board 
approved unanimously the payment of salaries to the Federal Reserve 
Bank Presidents indicated at the annual rates shown effective 
January 1, 1969: 
Bank 
President 
Salary 
Richmond 
Aubrey N. Heflin 
$45,000 
Chicago 
Charles J. Scanlon 
67,500 
Kansas City 
George H. Clay 
50,000 
First Vice President 
Richmond 
Robert P. Black 
37,500 
Chicago 
Hugh J. Helmer 
37,500 
Minneapolis 
M. H. Strothman, Jr. 
35,000 1/ 
Kansas City 
John T. Boysen 
34,500 
Copies of the letters sent to the respective Reserve Banks are 
attached as Items 3 through 6. 
In view of certain questions that were raised with respect to 
the salary rates proposed for the President and First Vice President 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, it was understood that Governor 
She 
rrill would get in touch with the Chairman or Deputy Chairman of 
the Bank to review the situation further. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
4:00 p.m. with all of the members of the Board except Chairman Martin 
Present along with Mr. Holland. 
1/ On December 16, when the Board approved salary for President Galusha 
at the annual rate of $50,000, it inadvertently approved salary for 
Mr. Strothman at the rate of $37,500 rather than the rate of $35,000 that 
had been fixed by the Bank's directors. 

4448 
12/19/68 
-4-
Board budget. The Board turned to further consideration of 
the proposed 1969 budget. Despite the large size of the increase over 
the 1968 level of expenditures, Governor Sherrill recommended approval 
of the budget in the interest of preserving the momentum achieved in 
developing desired changes in many of the Board's programs. On the 
other hand, he indicated that cuts in the proposed budget were feasible 
i < t.» 
; , 
' 
.
.
.
.
. 
- 
• 
• • . . . . . . 
• 
• ' 
• 
. . . . 
- 
» 
;••.. • 
••• I w 
i 
t • • 
..'••• 
.* -s 
• ; 
to the extent the Board was willing to sacrifice such momentum. 
In discussion, Board members indicated their concern that 
expenditures be held down wherever possible without sacrifice of essen-
tial programs in the current period of strong inflationary pressures. 
The feeling was expressed that old programs should come under parti-
cular review, to winnow out all those that had outlived their major 
usefulness. On the other hand, it was recognized that the decision 
to proceed with the new annex building also entailed some sizable related 
expenses, and it was felt that where such costs were not deferrable 
they should be identified as being incurred in connection with the 
construction of the new building. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the consensus of the Board 
was to refer the 1969 budgetary proposal back to Governor Sherrill for 
as much pruning as practicable on the basis of (a) eliminating all 
expenditures that were deferrable or uncertain, (b) searching for poten-
tial additional efficiencies and economies, and (c) curtailing all 

4449 
12/19/68 
-5-
expenditures not in accord with a spirit of austerity in Board outlays. 
After such review and revision was completed to Governor Sherrill's 
satisfaction, the revised budget was to be brought back to the Board 
for formal approval, hopefully before the end of next week in order 
to permit timely submission of figures to the Budget Bureau for 
inclusion in the annex section of the budget document for fiscal year 
1970. 
Governor Sherrill pointed out that he would intend to preserve 
in the budget the item for rental of staff parking facilities to take 
the place of the Board parking lot after it was closed for construction 
of the new building; he felt that to do otherwise would be an unwarranted 
blow to staff morale and amount to an undesirable cut in salaries. 
Other members of the Board indicated their agreement with this judgment. 
Governor Robertson then withdrew from the meeting and the 
following staff members, all of whom had been present at this morning's 
session, returned to the room along with Mr. Shepardson: 
Messrs. Kenyon, 
Solomon (International Finance), Hexter, Farrell, Solomon (Supervision 
and Regulation), Kelleher, Kakalec, Byrne, O'Connell, Axilrod, Leavitt, 
Hart, Smith, and Millea. 
Presentations with regard to the programs and budgets of their 
respective offices were made by Mr. Kelleher on behalf of the Division 
of Administrative Services, by Mr. Solomon on behalf of the Division of 
International Finance, and by Mr. Farrell on behalf of the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 

4450 
12/19/68 
-6-
During the discussion incident to the presentations, several 
comments or suggestions were made with respect to divisional programs 
or services. Among them was a suggestion that the hours of the Board's 
telephone switchboard service be extended. Also, the Personnel 
Division was asked to make a study of the-salary levels applicable to 
secretarial and stenographic positions and the Division of Administrative 
Services was instructed to purchase only a one-year additional supply 
of the book describing the purposes and functions of the Federal Reserve 
System, :the thought being that work on a revised edition should proceed 
rather promptly. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

4451 
Item NO. 1 
12/19/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C , 
!n the Matter of the Application of
 
9 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED,.
 
1 
Columbus, Ohio,
 
1
 
' i 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 per
 1 
c
ent or more of the voting shares of The
 
1 
Farmers Bank of Ashland, Ashland, Ohio..
 
9 
ORDER APFROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
*842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, 
Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
The Farmers Bank of Ashland, Ashland, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n
°tice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks for 
t h
e State of Ohio, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

4452 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 5, 1968 (33 Federal Register 12596), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of the Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 19.th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SSAL) 

4453 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
HUNTINGTON BANCSHARES INCORPORATED, COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FARMERS BANK OF ASHLAND, ASHLAND, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
ttie acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Farmers Bank of Ashland, Ashland, Ohio ("Bank"). Applicant controls 
1/ 
three subsidiary banks with total deposits aggregating $467 million. 
Bank, vith total deposits of about $12 million, operates two offices 
l n
 Ashland. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
c
ation was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the 
S u
Perintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio. He recommended 
a
Pproval of the application. 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1967, unless otherwise noted, 
three subsidiary banks include The Savings Bank Company, Chillicothe, 
O h l
-o, acquired on July 11, 1968. 

4454 
-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
Provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
Result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination or con-
spiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a pro-
posed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
®ay be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the prob-
able effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs 
the community to be served. In each case the Board is required 
t o
 take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The 13 largest 
. 
1/ 
ranking organizations 
in Ohio control 53 per cent of the total 
deposits held by all commercial banks located in the State. Applicant, 
2/ 
the fourth largest of five 
bank holding companies located in Ohio, 
& 
Includes First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, and 
T
he Central Bancorporation, Inc., Cincinnati, Ohio, applications for 
the formation of which were approved by the Board on June 5, 1968, 
at
*d November 13, 1968, respectively, and gives effect to Applicant's 
a c
quisition of The Savings Bank Company, Chillicothe, Ohio, on 
J u l
y 11, 1968. 
y 
See note 2. 

4455 
-3-
is the tenth largest banking organization in the State, and controls 
2.5 per cent of the deposits of the State's commercial banks. The 
a
cquisition of Bank, which holds .07 per cent of State deposits, will 
n
°t affect Applicant's relative position in the State. 
Both of Bank's offices are located in Ashland, the county 
seat of Ashland County. Five banks are located in the County, the 
three largest of which are in the City of Ashland. Bank, with about 
$12.5 million in deposits - equal to about 23 per cent of the deposits 
held by all banks in the County - is second in size in both the City 
at
*d County of Ashland. The two other banks in the City of Ashland 
have deposits of about $12.5 million and $20.7 million,respectively. 
The 
two smaller Ashland County banks are located outside Bank's primary 
service area (which includes the City of Ashland and the immediately 
surrounding area), but compete therein. Three larger banks in Mans-
field, 10 miles southwest of Ashland, also compete within Bank's 
Primary service area. The nearest office of any of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries is located some 69 miles from Bank. 
As indicated by the foregoing discussion, consummation of 
Applicant's proposal would have an insignificant effect on State-wide 
concentration, and would have no effect on concentration in any 
r
elevant area within the State. It does not appear that the proposed 
transaction would result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 
combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize the business of 
inking in any relevant area. 

44 
-2-
It does riot appear that consummation of Applicant s proposal 
would have any adverse effect on existing or potential competition. 
None of Applicant's present subsidiaries appear to derive any business 
from Bank's primary service area, and the extent of Bank's penetration 
of 
the service areas of Applicant's present subsidiaries is insigni-
cant. Potential competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries 
is limited by distance and a State prohibition against branching out-
side of the home office county. While affiliation of Bank with 
Applicant might reasonably be expected to increase the competitive 
effectiveness of Bank, such a result is viewed by the Board as a 
desirable one which should not adversely affect the viability of its 
competitors. 
In the light of the foregoing considerations, and all the 
tacts of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create 
a
 monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any section of 
the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
T
he financial condition, management, and prospects of Applicant, its 
subsidiary banks, and of Bank, are viewed as reasonably satisfactory. 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with approval of the 
• 
application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience 

-5-
44 
and needs of customers located in the areas served by Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries. However, in view of Bank's history of highly 
conservative credit policies, its acquisition by Applicant can be 
e
xpected to affect beneficially present and potential customers 
through inauguration of more liberal and more competitive loan 
Policies. Accordingly, considerations under this factor lend some 
support to approval of the application. 
'jfflfr 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
f
orth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
December 19, 1968. 

Item No. 
12/19/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
FIRST BANK SYSTEM, INC., 
' 
Minneapolis, Minnesota,
 
1 
• 
approval of acquisition of all of 
' 
the voting shares (less directors' 
' 
Qualifying shares) of First Plymouth 
' 
National Bank, Minneapolis, Minnesota, 
a
 Proposed new banl:. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e
ction 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
R e
8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Bank System, 
l n c
. , Minneapolis, Minnesota, for the Board's prior approval of the 
a c
quisition of all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of First Plymouth National Bank, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a 
Proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

4453 
-2-
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The Acting 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on Hay 21, 1968 (33 Federal Register 7505), providing 
opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
r e
spect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
» 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
t h
e thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such time shall be 
e
xtended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pur-
S u
ant to delegated authority; and provided further that the First Plymouth 
National Bank shall be opened for business not later than six months after 
t
he date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 
19th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Haisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

4460 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST BANK SYSTEM, INC., MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST PLYMOUTH NATIONAL BANK, MINNEAPOLIS, MINNESOTA 
STATEMENT 
First Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota ("Applicant"), 
a
 registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(
l 2
 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of all 
the voting shares (except for directors' qualifying shares) of the 
F
irst Plymouth National Bank ("Plymouth Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Applicant controls 83 subsidiary banks with aggregate total 
deposits of $2.9 billion."" Plymouth Bank, a proposed new bank, is to 
. 
1/ 
D e
 located on the Near North Side 
of Minneapolis to serve particularly 
^ e banking needs of the residents in the "ghetto" area of that sec-
tion of the city. 
y All banking data refer to insured commercial banks and are as of 
December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 
y The community known as the Near North Side of Minneapolis has been the 
subject of several studies. Copies of the following have been submitted 
a s
 part of the application herein: A report by the Minneapolis City 
Council's Commission on Human Development to the City Council and the 
p
eopl e of Minneapolis (August 1967); Near-North Community Analysis and 
Action Recommendations, Report to the City Planning Commission and City 
Council, Publication No. 161. Community Improvement Program Series No. 17, 
Autumn 1965; and Near North Side Neighborhood Renewal in Minneapolis 
(Minneapolis Housing and Redevelopment Authority). 

imi 
-2-
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and his views and recom-
mendation thereon were requested. The Acting Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o
 monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a n
y part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
0 r
 which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a^e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into considera-
t
i°n the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
kank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
n e
eds of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - There are 
7 1 9
 insured commercial banks in Minnesota. The 10 largest banking 
°
r
ganizations in Minnesota control 122 of these banks, and 64 per cent 
o f
 their aggregate total deposits. Applicant controls 49 banks in 
Minnesota with total aggregate deposits of $2.2 billion or 30 per cent 

-3-
4 4 & S 
the total deposits held by all insured commercial banks. Northwest 
incorporation, a registered bank holding company ("Northwest"), with 
^ banks that hold aggregate total deposits of $1.0 billion, controls 
u
 
1 1 
per cent of the aforementioned total deposits in the State. 
In the Minneapolis-St. Paul Standard Metropolitan Statistical 
Area ("SMSA"), which includes the counties of Hennepin, Ramsey, Anoka, 
Dakota, and Washington, there are 112 banks of which Applicant and 
N°rthwest each control 15. Applicant's banks control 42 per cent of 
t h e
 aggregate deposits in the SMSA and Northwest controls 31 per cent 
o f
 such deposits. In the City of Minneapolis there are 22 banks with 
a
2gregate total deposits of $2.2 billion. Of these Applicant controls 
f i
ve banks and 40 per cent of the deposits; Northwest's eight banks in 
t l l e
 city control 47 per cent of the deposits there, 
Plymouth Bank would be the only banking office located in its 
4/ 
Primary service area. 
Seventeen other banking offices (operated by 
e
*-ght different banking organizations) apparently derive some business 
fr 
the area. Applicant controls six of these 17 offices and 41 per 
C e
nt of their aggregate total deposits; Northwest, with five offices, 
c
°ntrols 47 per cent of such deposits. 
3 / 
-J Applicant a n cj Northwest each control a number of out-of-State banks. 
PPlicant's system has a total of 88 banks with aggregate deposits of 
billion; Northwest's system has 77 banks in all, with aggregate 
e
Posits of $3.1 billion. 
V The area from which Applicant estimates that Plymouth Bank would 
r
tve approximately 75 per cent of its business. 

:. 4463 
•4* 
The existing concentrdfcion of banking resources in the 
areas concerned is sufficiently high as to be viewed by the Board 
generally as an adverse consideration in evaluating a proposal that 
would involve any increase in this degree of concentration. 
However, 
with respect to Applicant's Plymouth Bank proposal, the Board has found 
that certain special considerations override the impact of the adverse 
nature of the concentration factor. This proposal relates to the estab-
lishment of a new ban!:, and therefore the banking alternatives in the 
relevant service area would be increased rather than decreased. The 
Proposal is presented with a declared goal of serving area businesses 
and residents who, because of circumstances such as color, poverty, 
unemployment, or other circumstances evidencing a lack of financial 
Potential, have not had reasonable access to personal and commercial 
banking services. The evidence reflects that existing banking offices 
that are potential sources of banking services have not responded in 
adequate measure to the residents and small businesses on the Near North 
Side, particularly the black minority located there. No alternative 
has been advanced that would provide the service contemplated by Appli-
cant's proposal. Further, the increase in concentration that would 
result from consummation of the proposed acquisition is slight. It is 
concluded that consummation of the proposal herein would not result in 
a monopoly nor be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
relevant area. 

4464 
-2-
Inasmuch as Plymouth Bank will not open for business unless 
application herein is approved, denial action would preclude entry 
into this area of an apparent real source of full-service banking. It 
a
ppears that the competitive vigor of existing banks that are potential 
competitors will not be impaired nor even significantly affected. 
Indeed, if Applicant's proposal is successful in its declared aims and 
2°als, it should lead to an increased demand for banking services that 
m a
y well promote competition from existing banking offices that are in 
a
 Position to offer service to the area or serve to attract other bank-
ing organizations into the area. 
It is recognized that entry into the relevant area of a banking 
°
r
8anization less dominant than Applicant would be a preferable answer 
t o
 the area's requirements. However, as earlier stated, no such alter-
ative has been offered or seems likely in the reasonable future. In 
t^se circumstances, and on the basis of the entire record presented, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction would 
n
°t substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor in 
a n
y other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are in satisfactory financial condition, 
have capable management and favorable prospects. 
As Plymouth Bank is a proposed new bank, it has no financial 
operating history. Its management is to include experienced, competent 
p e r
sonnel drawn from Applicant's system, together with capable, respected 
t e
presentatives of the black community. 

. 4465 
-6* 
Applicant's projection of a profit foi? the new bank'6 second 
full year of operation appears somewhat optimistic. It is anticipated 
that profitable operations may be delayed beyond the projected period 
if the Bank is to render the services proposed, and is to make the 
Promised contribution to the social and economic welfare of the area. 
In these circumstances, the support of an organization with ample re-
sources, such as Applicant, bolsters the prospects for the proposed new 
hank. The apparent success experienced in the financial counseling 
facility that Applicant established in the proposed service area of the 
Plymouth Bank lends support to Applicant's expectations that Plymouth 
Bank will become a successful operation. 
On the facts of record, the Board concludes that the 
c
°nsiderations relating to the banking factors are satisfactory and 
Provide some weight toward approval, 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The Near 
North Side section of Minneapolis (northwest of the city's downtown 
°usiness district) covers approximately six square miles and 52,000 people, 
During the last 10-15 years, the area apparently has suffered a net loss 
°f almost 100 business establishments and close to 5,000 jobs, and the 
n
°n-white population has increased substantially. The proposed service 
area of Plymouth Bank, covering about 2-1/3 square miles and containing 
some 26,000 persons, lies in the middle one-third between the north and 
s
°uth boundaries of the Near North Side area. According to Applicant, 
t h
e site selected for Plymouth Bank is approximately in the geographic 

4466 
-7-
center of the black community of the Near North Side and about two miles 
from downtown Minneapolis, 
As stated earlier, Bank would be the only banking office 
located in its primary service area. There are three banking offices 
n
°w located within the Near North Side section of the city; two are 
Ranches of Applicant's lead bank, and the third is a branch of 
lead bank. Of these three offices, Northwest's branch and 
one of Applicant's are to be relocated and the Board has been advised 
that the new locations are expected to be on the east side of a proposed 
e x
Pressway. The site of the Plymouth Bank is to be on the west side of 
proposed expressway, which is designated as the eastern boundary of 
t
^e Bank's primary service area. The record reflects that none of the 
^ offices mentioned earlier as potential competitors, including the 
offices now located within the Near North Side, has been success-
£U
J- in establishing relations with the black community. The operation 
and the reception accorded to, Applicant's financial counseling 
facility located near the proposed site of Plymouth Bank, as described 
ky Persons familiar with the facility, indicate that the existing bank-
o f f i c e s are not affording to the area involved or its residents the 
financial services that are needed and attest to the validity of Appli-
Car
*t's claim that Plymouth Bank can and will provide both necessary and 
^
e
sired banking services on terms and under conditions offering 
r e a
sonable assurance of their favorable reception by the residents 
a t l d
 small businesses located or to be located in the area. In the light 

446 
-8' 
°f the demonstrated public need for the type of services contemplated 
by the subject proposal, and on the basis of the entire record herein, 
it:
 is concluded that the establishment of Plymouth Bank would add to 
the convenience of the residents and small businesses in the projected 
Primary service area by providing them with additional local banking 
facilities suited to their unfilled needs. Considerations under this 
factor are viewed as favorable for approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts 
contained in the record,and in the light of the factors set forth in 
S e
ction 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
D
ccemberl9, I960. 

4468 
Item No. 3 
12/19/63 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
o r 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E o r 
T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Wilson H. Elkins, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Wilson: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to President Aubrey N. Heflin and First Vice 
President Robert P. Black at rates of $45,000 and $37,500 
per annum, respectively, effective January 1, 1969. The 
rates approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors, 
as reported in your letter of December 13. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 

Item No. 
12/19/63 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 V 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
J ^ S J ^ P , ' 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Franklin J. Lunding, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Franklin: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to President Charles J. Scanlon and First Vice 
President Hugh J. Helmer at rates of $67,500 and $37,500 
per annum, respectively, effective January 1, 1969. The 
rates approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors, 
as reported in your letter of December 12. 
With best regards, I am 
S i n c e r e l y , 

.VoOFCo;•.. 
Item N o i ?
4
 C 
12/19/68 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Q F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Joyce A. Swan, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
D e
a r Joyce: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salary to Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., as President, and to M. H. 
Strothman, Jr., as First Vice President, at rates of $50,000 
$35,000 per annum, respectively, effective January 1, 1969. 
The rates approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors, 
as reported in your letters of September 16 and December 12, 
1968. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 

w 
is''. 
4471 
Item No. 6 
12/19/63 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E S Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 Q S 5 I 
O F F I C E Q F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 20, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Dolph Simons, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64198 
Dear Dolph: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salary to President George H. Clay and to First Vice 
President John T. Boysen at rates of $50,000 and $34,500 
per annum, respectively, effective January 1, 1969. The 
rates approved are those fixed by your Board of Directors, 
as reported in your letter of December 13. 
With best regards, I am 
Sincerely, 
