FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
February 2, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
JM 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Tuesday, February 2, 1971. 
The Board met in the Board 
m at 10:45 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Process 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

31D 
2/2/71 
-2-
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
One-bank holding companies. With a memorandum dated January 29, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation submitted a revised 
draft of registration statement for use under the Bank Holding Company 
Act as 
recently amended. 
The present version of the statement had been developed after 
conferences with industry representatives and the receipt of a number 
of comments. 
Changes that had been made in the provisions regarding 
consolidation of financial reporting were believed to go far toward 
resolving industry problems in that respect. 
One area that remained in question was the treatment of good-
will in financial statements. 
The present draft assumed continuation 
of the policy under which bank holding companies had been required to 
report their investments in bank subsidiaries at no greater than their 
proportionate interest in the net asset value. 
The effect was to require 
that any payment for goodwill be charged against the capital accounts of 
the parent. 
However, this was in conflict with generally accepted 
accounting principles. 

311 
2/2/71 
-9-
There had been industry complaints about the proposed treat-
ment of goodwill. 
Some one-bank holding companies were carrying on 
their books substantial amounts representing goodwill. 
If they were 
required to charge off those amounts, their capital accounts would be 
reduced substantially. 
Some adjustments had been included in the 
present draft of registration statement. 
If the cash value of good-
will was not being carried at more than 5 per cent of the total assets 
of a subsidiary, it need not be charged off; and it was made clear in 
the instructions that goodwill did not comprehend premiums paid that 
might be properly allocable to some banking asset. 
During discussion some Board members raised questions regard-
ing the advisability of substituting the Board's judgment for that of 
the accounting profession, regarding the advisability of imposing a 
regulatory burden of multiple bookkeeping, with resultant confusion, 
and regarding whether the Board could in fact guarantee that there would 
•• v" >:;\ or .i. U-n, L\.' ) U 
, 1* 
{ j': „ ,r »,-r. I: • 
not be public disclosure of the registration statements at some point. 
Reference also was made to problems that would be faced by organizations 
such as large mail order houses if the Board did not follow generally 
accepted accounting principles. 
One suggestion made, but not pursued, was that holding companies 
might be given the choice of consolidating nonbank with banking business 
or of following accepted accounting principles with respect to nonbanking 
business. A view also was expressed in favor of the staff recommendation, 

312 
2/2/71 
-4-
on the basis that registration statements should disclose exactly the 
net asset position of the holding companies and that the Board should 
not permit water to be injected. 
Chairman Burns then observed that the Federal Advisory Council, 
which would meet with the Board this week, was being asked to comment 
on the registration statement and could be requested especially to let 
the Board have its views regarding the treatment of goodwill. 
He sug-
gested that disposition of the question be deferred until after the 
Board's meeting with the Council. 
There was agreement with this suggestion. 
The following letters were approved unanimously after considera-
tion of background information. 
Copies of the letters are attached as 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
its request fot suspension of certain provisions 
of Regulation K insofar as they relate to 
Manufacturers Hanover Limited, London, England. 
1 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent 
to changes in the structure of its investments 
related to its present interest in Banco Atlantida, 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras. 
2 
Letter to Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
approving a proposal to issue capital notes. 
3 
Letter to Summit State Bank of Bloomington, 
Bloomington, Minnesota, approving its application 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
4 

313 
2/2/71 
-9-
Uaion Bank. After review of pertinent documentation, the appli-
cation of Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, to merge The Stanford 
Bank, Palo Alto, California, was approved unanimously. 
It was under-
stood that an order reflecting this decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
Legislative recommendations. 
The Legal Division, in a memo-
randum dated January 27, 1971, discussed legislative recommendations 
that the Board might wish to make in its Annual Report for 1970. 
One recommendation would be to establish required reserve per-
centage ranges on a graduated basis according to the amount of a bank's 
deposits, regardless of its location, and to make such requirements 
applicable to all Federally insured banks. 
Governor Sherrill suggested that the recommendation, if not 
dropped, at least be adjusted so that the requirements would apply only 
to banks above a minimum size. 
Some other members, however, expressed 
tU^ls fcecau;; cht '
;
y 
d •• • . ; ,. 
i a to t oi • 
1. r ' 
reservations. 
It was brought out, in further discussion, that the 
Board could take certain steps toward graduated reserve requirements 
under existing law, though it would have to deal with the problem of 
large "country" banks. Also, it was possible that if the authority 
were written specifically into the law, brackets would be set that would 
diminish flexibility. 
It was suggested that the staff study further the possibilities 
available under present law, and the problems involved. 

314 
2/2/71 
-9-
On the proposed recommendation for standby authority within 
the Government to guarantee loans to basically sound firms if such 
assistance appeared necessary to avoid a national financial crisis or 
to enable such firms to continue activities essential in the national 
interest, a view was expressed that it would be preferable for such 
legislation to be proposed elsewhere, after which the Board could express 
its support. 
However, the possibility was noted that no other Govern-
ment entity would take the initiative. 
The inclusion of the recommendation for standby authority for 
Government guarantee of private loans in certain circumstances was 
approved. Governors Maisel and Brimmer dissenting. 
Inclusion in the 
Annual Report of the following recommendations was approved without 
dissent: 
To permit a member bank, subject only to regulations of the 
Board, to borrow on any security satisfactory to its Reserve 
Bank without the necessity of paying a higher rate of interest 
simply because the security does not meet statutory "eligibility" 
requirements for the basic rate; 
To require all Federally insured banks to pay at par all 
checks drawn on them (without deducting "exchange charges"); 
To permit Reserve Banks to invest in obligations of foreign 
governments or monetary authorities that mature within 12 
months and are payable in a convertible currency; 
To permit Federally insured banks to make home mortgage loans 
to bank examiners under appropriate statutory safeguards; 
To expand the prohibition of section 8 of the Clayton Act 
against interlocking relationships between member banks to 
cover all depositary institutions; and 

315 
2/2/71 
-9-
To repeal the dollar limit on the aggregate costs incurred by 
the Federal Reserve Banks for construction of branch buildings 
after July 30, 1947. 
Open market policy record. 
The Board had requested a review 
of the FOMC policy record entries for 1970 in relation to the draft 
entries for the last two meetings of the year, especially with respect 
to the attention given to staff analysis of the outlook for monetary 
aggregates and the summary of the Committee's discussion of policy. 
Such an analysis had been provided by Mr. Broida with a memorandum 
dated February 1. Another memorandum of that date from Mr. Holland 
submitted and commented on revised policy record entries for the meet-
ings of November 17 and December 15, 1970. 
These entries were being 
submitted to the Board for review rather than approved by the Secretary 
under delegated authority because changes suggested in the earlier 
drafts were more extensive than usual. 
Under the normal 90-day lag, the November 17 entry would be 
released to the press on February 16, 1971, a few days before Chairman 
Burns was scheduled to testify before the Joint Economic Committee. 
It 
was recommended that the December 15 entry be released at the same time, 
consistent with the practice in recent years. 
Today's discussion centered principally on the question whether 
to include in the entries comments on money supply projections for the 
first quarter of 1971, and in this connection Governor Daane pointed 
out passages that he believed were not essential to the policy record. 

316 
2/2/71 
-9-
While there was some sentiment in favor of the general concept thus 
expressed, Board members cautioned against unduly condensing the policy 
record entries, which it was generally agreed had been prepared over a 
period of time with a high degree of objectivity. 
Procedural suggestions 
for publishing the December entry in tentative form or for delaying its 
publication were not received favorably. 
Chairman Burns then suggested that, since other members of the 
Board did not appear to have strong views, Governors Daane and Maisel 
resolve with the staff the differences in the approaches they had 
advocated. 
Subject to that understanding, the policy record entries for 
November 17 and December 15, 1970, were approved unanimously for inclu-
sion in the Board's Annual Report. 
It was understood that after the 
Reserve Bank Presidents had been given an opportunity for any further 
comments, the entries would be released to the press on February 16, 
1971, after final review by the Board. 
Culpeper Center computer. 
The Board had eliminated from its 
1971 budget funds for the Culpeper Center computer operation, with the 
suggestion that the cost, estimated at $550,000, be allocated to the 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
In a memorandum dated January 21, 1971, the 
Division of Data Processing stated that it had re-evaluated the Culpeper 
computer requirements to determine whether there was justification for 
retaining the present computer at that site for Federal Reserve System 
uses. 
The conclusion was that the value gained would not offset the cost. 

317 
2/2/71 
-9-
It was therefore recommended that the operation be terminated as expe-
ditiously as possible; expenses were estimated at $100,000. 
A memorandum dated January 18, 1971, from Mr. Grimwood summa-
rized factors that argued for maintaining a computer capability at 
Culpeper for emergency purposes. 
After discussion of reasons for and against terminating the 
Culpeper operation, it was suggested that it might be appropriate to 
consider the installation of a smaller computer to provide capability 
in an emergency at lesser cost. 
Staff was requested to provide an 
estimate of the expense that would be involved on that basis. 
There was also agreement with a suggestion that no final deci-
sion be made until the views of the Office of Emergency Preparedness 
were obtained. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
0'Connell then withdrew. 
Staff appointment. 
The Board approved the appointment of 
Grasty Crews II as Adviser, Legal Division,with annual salary at the 
rate of $27,400, effective February 1, 1971. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

318 
l 
. . * 
v' f 
; • 
NUMBER NOT USED 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3 1 O 
Item No. 1 
2/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1971 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 3, 1970, 
regarding the Board's letter of December 4, 1968, as amended 
April 27, 1970, which granted consent for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold up to 80 per cent of the shares of Manufacturers 
Hanover Limited , London, England. 
As requested in your letter of December 3, 1970, the 
Board, subject to continuing observation and review, has suspended, 
until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
second paragraph of its letter of December 4, 1968, so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a) of Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
C 

320 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
2/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1971 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of September 30 and 
October 1, 1970, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CMOBC") to acquire up to 51 per cent of the shares 
of a holding company ("HC") to be organized in Honduras by the 
exchange of its holdings of shares of Banco Atlantida ("Banco"), 
Tegucigalpa, Honduras, which were purchased at a cost of approximately 
$4,700,000, provided the shares of HC are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, the acquisition 
and holding of shares of HC in excess of 10 per cent of CMOBC's 
capital and surplus is also approved. 
As further requested in your letters, the Board grants 
consent for CMOBC to continue to hold the shares of HC after HC 
acquires (a) 100 per cent of the shares of Banco; (b) up to 63 per 
cent of the shares of Atlantic Bank Limited ("ABL"), a new bank to 
be formed in Belize, British Honduras, at a cost of approximately 
$200,000; and (c) 100 per cent of the shares of a new Honduran ware-
housing company ("HWC"), at a cost of approximately $300,000, pro-
vided such acquisitions are made within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board also grants consent for CMOBC to purchase and 
hold directly up to 25 per cent of the shares of ABL, at a cost of 
approximately $80,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
C 

321 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
The Board's consent to the proposed acquisition and holding 
of shares of HC, Banco and ABL, directly or indirectly by CMOBC is 
granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of HC, Banco or ABL if HC, Banco 
or ABL, respectively, at any time fail to restrict 
their activities to those permissible to a corporation 
in which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of 
the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
HC, Banco or ABL establish any branches or agencies or 
take any action or undertake any operation in Honduras, 
British Honduras, or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of HC, Banco and ABL as it may require from 
time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by HC, Banco 
or ABL be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if they were corporations organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That CMOBC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
HC or HC the shares of Banco at a net amount in excess 
of their proportionate share of the book capital accounts 
of HC and Banco, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by HC and Banco in 
Honduras in the currency of that country and ABL in British Honduras 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of HC and ABL. 
.f 

322 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-3-
The continued holding of shares of HC after it acquires 
shares of HWC is granted on the condition that HWC will restrict 
its activities to the warehousing of goods in Honduras and that 
its operations will be and remain an integral part of the operations 
of Banco in Honduras and that the great majority of goods to be 
stored in the warehouse will be financed in one form or another by 
Banco. 
Should there be an alteration in the operations of HWC as 
described in your letter of October 16, 1970, the'Board should be 
advised immediately through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The foregoing consent for the purchase of shares of ABL 
by CMOBC is given with the understanding that the investment will 
be made within the guidelines established under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending 
and investment activities of The Chase Manhattan Bank National Asso-
ciation and its subsidiaries, and that due consideration is being 
given to the priorities contained therein. 
It is understood that 
the acquisition of shares of 1IC by CMOBC and shares of Banco, ABL, 
and HWC by HC will not involve any transfer of funds from the United 
States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
C 

••f^UKSt-V 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R 5 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
323 
Item No. 3 
2/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Union Bank 
Los Angeles, California 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $30 million in subordinated notes by Union Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, as proposed in your Counsel's letter of January 25, 
1971, with attachments to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

rote 
M r : 
H 
•f^URE^V 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
17 
Item No. 3 
2/2/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D ! 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Summit State Bank of Bloomington 
Bloomington, Minnesota 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Summit State Bank of Bloomington, 
Bloomington, Minnesota, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forths 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $400,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $500,000. 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL. R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
325 
Board of Directors 
Summit State Bank 
of Bloomington 
-2-
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount, of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
• 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
