1 I' 
i -/V^'V 
J' 
'•'".I "•• 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 16, 1968 
: t 
; .•iV-V-'.V 

* r c 
osfcbo 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 16, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board 
and Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle and Via of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Harris, Poundstone, and Sanford 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 

9/16/68 
-2-
Foreign banking matters. 
Unanimous approval was given to the 
application of Bankers International Corporation, New York, New York, 
for permission to acquire additional shares of Leasco Europa, a 
Delaware corporation. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Unanimous approval was given to the application of Mellon 
Bank International, New York, New York, for permission to acquire addi-
tional shares of Bank of London and South America 
Limited, London, 
England. A copy of the letter-3ent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
Processing of reports. 
By letter dated March 14, 1968, Chairman 
Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had clarified a 
proposal under which the Corporation would assume greater responsibility 
for processing reports of condition and reports of income and dividends 
submitted by member banks as well as insured nonmember banks. A draft 
of reply to Chairman Randall set forth certain general principles that 
it was felt could serve as a basis upon which the staffs of the Board 
and the Corporation could be instructed to work out organizational and 
operating details implementing the new procedures. 
No objections were indicated except that Governor Mitchell 
expressed doubt that under the new procedures the Board would be able 
to obtain access, if and when needed, to data from the reports prior 
to the conclusion of the processing. 
He was assured by Governor Sherrill 

4 o 0 
9/16/68 
-3-
that he would be shown the detailed statement of operating procedures when 
it had been worked out by the staff. 
The reply to Chairman Randall was then approved for transmittal 
over Governor Sherrill's signature. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Kingston Trust Company. At its meeting on September 6, 1968, 
the Board considered the application of Kingston Trust Company, Kingston, 
New York, to merge The Kerhonkson National Bank, Kerhonkson, New York, 
but deferred action and requested that the staff explore means of 
obtaining additional information on other merger possibilities that might 
be available to the Kerhonkson bank that would have less anticompetitive 
consequences. 
In a memorandum of September 10 the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation reviewed the record in the matter and pointed out that all of 
the apparent alternative mergers would appear to have at least slightly 
adverse competitive effects. Since the Division, the Banking Markets 
Section, and the New York Reserve Bank all were of the opinion that the 
merger applied for would have no more than slightly adverse competitive 
consequences, this raised the question whether the Board in such a situation 
would want to follow the practice of going back and investigating possible 
alternatives. 
Members of the Board agreed that as a general rule investigation 
of alternatives in cases where the competitive effects of a proposed 
transaction were judged to be only slightly adverse would not be advisable. 

3461 
9/16/68 
-4-
In this instance, however, several members felt that the proper classi-
fication of the competitive effects was adverse rather than slightly 
adverse. Nevertheless, in the particular circumstances involved they 
joined the other members in expressing a willingness to approve the 
application, one member citing apparent benefits from the standpoint 
of convenience and needs and another citing the small size of the bank 
proposed to be merged. 
Accordingly, the application was approved unanimously, with the 
Understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Reserve Bank expenditures. 
The Board had earlier accepted the 
budgets of the Federal Reserve Banks for the second half of 1968, but 
with the understanding, conveyed to the Banks, that planned expenditures 
should be reviewed and that the Board should be advised of the results. 
The Board also informed the Banks that in general outlays for building 
construction, fixed machinery and equipment, land acquisition, and the 
like should be delayed until the economic climate changed. 
Those 
measures were felt to be desirable in light of the program approved by 
the Congress, and supported by the Federal Reserve, that called for a 
reduction in Federal spending. 
The results of the review by the Reserve Banks were summarized 
by the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of 
September 9, 1968. 
Briefly, controllable expenses had been revised 
downward by $1.3 million (1.2 per cent), while programs involving capital 

9/16/68 
-5-
outlays had been reduced by $1.2 million (4.2 per cent). However, the 
Board's consultant on security matters had reviewed the proposed 
expenditure reductions involving measures designed to strengthen security 
and had concluded that in some instances, involving expenditures of approx-
imately $200,000, the improvements were overdue and should not be post-
poned. 
The Division suggested that if the Board was satisfied with the 
Reserve Bank review in the light of the Government-wide expenditure 
reduction program, the Reserve- Banks be advised that the revised budgets 
had been accepted, that the Board would continue to weigh the urgency 
of any capital expenditure program against prevailing economic conditions, 
and that the Board felt, in certain instances, that it would be unwise 
to defer specified security programs. 
Members of the Board expressed some dissatisfaction that the 
results of the budget review had not been more significant. 
However, 
a number of factors that militated against achieving greater reductions 
during the second half of the current year were cited and the Board was 
advised that the revised budget submissions reportedly had received 
consideration at the top levels at the respective Banks. 
In the circum-
stances, and in the absence of a plan for fundamental revision of the 
procedures followed in appraising Reserve Bank budgets at the Board level, 
it was agreed to follow the suggestions of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations. 

tJ^k K>«u> 
9/16/68 
-6-
In this connection, it was reported that Reserve Bank budget 
officers had been inquiring about the general philosophy that should 
guide plans for expenditures during the first half of 1969. The Board 
concluded that the Presidents should be advised that the Reserve Banks 
would be expected to exercise reasonable restraint in planning expen-
ditures for that period. 
A copy of the letter sent to the President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston pursuant to the Board's discussion is attached as 
Item No. 4. The letters sent to the other Presidents were similar except 
that in appropriate instances the letters cited projects designed to 
improve security that it was felt should be reinstated and implemented. 
Allocation of staff resources. A staff memorandum with regard 
to difficulties being experienced by the Banking Markets Section in 
handling the current workload, due primarily to personnel turnover, was 
held over for consideration at a meeting when Governor Brimmer could be 
present, pursuant to his request. However, in a preliminary discussion of 
the problem it was suggested that consideration be given to the feasibility 
of a procedure under which the available staff resources of the Section 
would be conserved for application to those cases that, upon screening, 
appeared to involve adverse or substantially adverse competitive effects. 
The possibility of placing increased reliance on the reports of the 
Reserve Bank Research Departments was also suggested. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R B 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
xT 3'IG'I 
Item No. 1 
9/16/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 16, 1968 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of June 27, and August 13, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold 7,000 additional shares of Leasco Europa, a Delaware corpora-
tion, at a cost of approximately $700,000, provided such shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this connec-
tion, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of such shares 
in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporations capital and surplus. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

O 1 (t^cr 
b d a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
9/16/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS QFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 16, 1968 
Mellon Bank International, 
84 William Street, 
New York, New York. 
10038 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
August 7, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("MBI") to purchase and hold 3,000,000 additional shares (1,500,000 of 
which would be acquired if MBI exercises its rights of conversion in 
"subordinated loan stock") of Bank of London and South America Limited 
("BOLSA"), London, England, at a cost determined in accordance with 
the methods set forth in you application (which on the basis of a 
recent market price for BOLSA stock would have been approximately 
$20 673,650), provided the shares and conversion rights are acquired 
prior to January 1, 1974. In this connection, the Board also approves 
the purchase and holding of shares and subordinated loan stock of BOLSA 
by your Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set forth 
in Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] and 
Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K, provided that, beginning three years 
from the date of this letter, the total investment in shares of BOLSA 
does not exceed 100 per cent of MBI's capital and surplus. The Board 
would expect, however, that due consideration be given to the adequacy 
of MBI's capital accounts in relation to its other activities. 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the same conditions 
set forth in its letter of November 17, 1965, and the clarifications 
detailed in its letter of December 3, 1965. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation and Mellon 
National Bank and Trust Company and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
QFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 30551 
34GG 
Item No. 3 
9/16/68 
WILLIAM W.5HERRILL 
MEMBER OF" THE BOARD 
September 16, 1968 
The Honorable K. A. Randall, 
Chairman, 
Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Kay: 
On March 14, you sent to Governor Robertson a letter clarifying 
the FDIC proposal for having the Corporation assume greater responsi-
bility for the processing of reports of condition and of income and 
dividends for Federal Reserve member banks as well as for insured non-
member banks . Since the receipt of that letter we havebeenendeavoring 
to explore in detail the implications of such a centralization of data 
processing in light of the whole range of Federal Reserve needs and 
responsibillties--supervisory, operating policy, and analytic-in which 
information from these reports plays a role. 
As a result of these explorations, we are now prepared to 
formulate some general principles which, if we can - c 
a g r e « » 
n 
procedures 
Thfse general principles can be stated quite simply: 
1 
The centralized computer production processing by the FDIC 
,, 
- 
, t c pi 
for all banks—member and nonmember--
; r ^ : r : f a p r o v i d i ^ g r d S t ^ p e r a t i n g economies and efficiencies, 
and is agreed to in principle. 
2 
The transition from an agreement in principle to a working 
arrangement will depend upon the mutual working out and acceptance of 
operating procedures and performance standards. 
3. Because of the critical role played by information from these 
/ 
lAA* 
of Federal Reserve operations, it is understood 
reports in a wide variety ot Ifeaerai 
f 
minimum, mainten-
that the procedures to be established will assure, at 
, 
ance of the performance s t a n d a r ^ ^ 
a n d 
S
^
i
l
W
-
S 
of member bank information, at both sugary and 
individual bank levels. 

The Honorable K. A. Randall 
- 2 -
4 
Because our ability to use the information effectively and 
flexibly will in large measure be determined by the specific processing 
procedures adopted, the Federal Reserve will be expected to participate 
actively in the planning and design of the processing system, not only 
at a general level but also at relevant stages of the more detailed plan-
ning 
Such staff collaboration will be essential on a continuing basis, 
even beyond the initial planning and development stage; the establishment 
of an effective staff mechanism for participation and consultation will 
of necessity be among the first items of business in getting the new 
procedures operational. 
Once we have reached agreement on these general principles, we 
can leave to our staffs the task of working out the operating details 
which will reflect and embody the principles. For that stage, our staff 
has in preparation a more detailed and comprehensive statement to imple-
ment the general principles and which incorporates specific suggestions 
with respect to the procedures to be developed.. We will be happy to 
• supply you with copies of that detailed statement as soon as it is 
completed. 
It would probably lead to more efficient staff discussion, 
however, if we first agree on the general principles that should guide 
this joint venture. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) William W. Sherrill 
William W. Sherrill. 

34 
Item No. 4 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
9/16/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 19, 1968 
Mr. Frank E. Morris, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board accepts the revisions in your Bank's budget 
for the last half of this year as suggested in Mr. Latham's 
letter of July 26, 1968. Accordingly, these revisions should be 
reflected in Column 3 on form FR 91, in submitting your new budget 
material in November, and the report should be footnoted to this 
effect. 
In this connection, the Board expects the Reserve Banks 
to exercise reasonable restraint in planning expenditures for 
the first half of 1969. 
The Board will continue to weigh the urgency of any 
proposed capital expenditure program against prevailing economic 
conditions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
