Minutes for 
August 9, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
u? 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 9, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard, Miss Eaton, and Mrs. Semia of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Weiner, Baker, 
Beck, Ettin, Fry, Kelty, and Kichline of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Katz, 
Bradshaw, Pizer, Smith, and Stem of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Baker commented on the Government 
securities market, Mr. Eckert discussed bank credit, and Mr. Kichline 
reported on capital markets. Mr. Stem then summarized developments 
in the foreign exchange and gold markets. Copies of the several 
tables and charts used in connection with today's presentations have 
been placed in the Board's files. 

3033 
8/9/68 
-2-
All staff members of the research divisions except Messrs. 
Brill and Solomon then withdrew, as did Mr. Bernard and Miss Eaton, 
and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Egertson, Sidman, and Lyon, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle and Via of the Legal Division 
Mr. Eisenbeis of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Goodfellow and Hill 
of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. 
Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on August 8, 1968, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached 
under the numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, New York, 
1 
New York, granting permission to establish a 
branch in Tokyo, Japan. 

8/9/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to the American Institute of Certified 
2 
Public Accountants, New York, New York, regard-
ing certain proposals relating to bank account-
ing principles. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
3 
approving revised salary structures for employees 
at the head office and Detroit Branch. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
4 
Francisco approving the payment of salary to John J. 
Carson as Assistant Manager at the Los Angeles Branch 
at the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Application of First National City Bank (Item No. 5). There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated August 2, 1968, recommending approval of the 
application of First National City Bank, New York, New York, for 
permission to acquire 50 per cent of the shares of Turkiye Osmanli 
Bankasi, a commercial bank to be formed in Turkey. The remaining 
50 per cent of the stock was to be held by the Ottoman Bank, which 
would also hold a slight margin of director control. Although this 
margin was narrow, the Division believed it was sufficient to remove 
Turkiye Osmanli Bankasi from consideration as a clear subsidiary of 
First National City Bank. Therefore the draft letter of approval 
attached to the memorandum did not contain the conditions that the 
Board customarily imposed when a member bank or Edge corporation 
acquired a controlling interest in a foreign banking institution. 
However, Mr. Goodfellow was of the view that whenever there was any 

3*J 35 
8/9/68 
-4-
doubt as to where practical control would reside, the Board's consent 
should be given subject to such conditions. 
Governor Brimmer asked whether Mr. Goodfellow was convinced 
that in this case First National City Bank could be expected to 
exercise effective control, and Mr. Goodfellow expressed the belief 
that, despite technicalities, it probably would be able to do so. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the conditions in question be 
imposed but suspended. 
Other members of the Board having agreed with Governor 
Brimmer's suggestion, a letter was approved unanimously in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Doylestown merger cases. There had been distributed drafts 
of a statement and orders relating to the Board's approval on July 16, 
1968, of the applications of Girard Trust Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsyl-
vania, to merge The Doylestown National Bank & Trust Company, Doyles-
town, Pennsylvania, and The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
to merge Doylestown Trust Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania. 
Governor Maisel referred to two sentences in the draft state-
ment, one indicating that consummation of the proposed mergers would 
facilitate the development of a more competitive banking structure 
for central Bucks County and the other stating that consummation would 
have a favorable effect on competition. He suggested substituting: 
"It is concluded that the proposed mergers would have no effect on 
existing or potential competition." 

3038 
8/9/68 
-5-
Governor Brimmer recalled that when the cases were discussed 
he had stressed that the competitive situation prevailing at the time 
the applications were filed had since changed substantially. He 
believed that the change should be highlighted in the statement. 
Larger banks had come into the Doylestown area de novo, and he felt 
it could now be said that approval of the mergers would enhance com-
petition. 
Governor Maisel said he could not agree that consummation of 
the mergers would be pro-competitive. However, his conclusion was 
that at least the effect would not be substantially adverse and there-
fore it was not necessary to cite strong offsetting benefits. 
After further discussion of the points made by Governors 
Maisel and Brimmer, it was understood that the statement would be 
revised to reflect the views expressed and brought back to the Board. 
Messrs. Shull, Sidman, Doyle, Via, and Hill then withdrew, 
as did Miss McShane. 
News dissemination practices. In a letter of July 31, 1968, 
Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking and Currency referred 
to an article that had appeared recently in the press dealing with the 
weekly briefings held by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, and in 
particular a recent press conference with the President of the Bank. 
It was contended in the article that through these briefings more 
information was made available to bond market insiders regarding 

8/9/68 
-6-
monetary policy than to less knowledgeable members of the financial 
community or to the general public. It was further contended that 
the briefings caused trouble because the Reserve Bank officials 
refused to be publicly identified. Chairman Patman requested that 
the Board have an investigation conducted and inform him of the find-
ings. There had now been distributed a draft of reply that would 
comment on the nature of the press conferences and refer to somewhat 
conflicting conclusions reached by various writers following recent 
briefings. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that before the Board 
replied it should obtain information from President Hayes regarding 
the exact procedures followed in holding the Bank's press conferences. 
Mr. Molony replied that the draft letter had been prepared in part 
from material furnished by the Reserve Bank. The Bank had sent, among 
other things, its memorandum of understanding regarding news confer-
ences held by the President. Copies could be distributed to the Board 
members if desired. 
Governor Daane commented that even though the facts presented 
in the draft were correct, he saw merit in Governor Robertson's sug-
gestion. It might be well to request the Bank to frame a reply to 
Chairman Patman's inquiry, which rejoinder could then be used as a 
basis for the Board's response to Mr. Patman. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that a dissertation on 
how various parties might have interpreted the information provided 

8/9/68 
-7-
at the press conferences was not adequate. He believed the reply 
should be couched in terms of specific rules and actual practices. 
Governor Daane also spoke to the same effect. Governor Maisel said 
that he too would be interested in knowing the procedural details, 
so that he might form a better judgment on the practices followed by 
the New York Bank. 
Governor Brimmer recommended that the staff conduct an inves-
tigation, making its own inquiries and not simply obtaining material 
from the New York Bank. The staff should obtain from the Bank a 
systematic report of its procedures and rules such as Governor 
Robertson had suggested, and the staff should then report to the Board 
on its investigation. He was disturbed that the substance of the 
present draft of letter to Chairman Patman apparently had been pre-
pared at the New York Reserve Bank. He believed that a sharp distinc-
tion should be made in the investigation between the briefings relating 
to the release of weekly statistics and the conferences held by the 
President of the New York Bank. As to the latter, it was not clear 
whether the President spoke in his individual capacity or as Vice 
Chairman of the Federal Open Market Committee, and it was vital that 
those two roles be kept separate. He did not regard the investigation 
as a one-shot matter. It would be well for the Board to examine 
whether it was necessary, in this day of rapid communication, for the 
New York Reserve Bank to issue statistics for the entire System. Per-
haps the Board should issue them and its staff should hold the briefings. 

of 
8/9/68 
-8-
Mr. Molony commented that the Board could, of course, make 
any inquiries it wished of the New York Reserve Bank. However, he 
believed it would be desirable to keep that aspect separate from the 
question of how to reply to the inquiry from Mr. Patman. He added 
that the draft letter was not a product of the New York Bank but 
simply reflected some of the information obtained from the Bank. If 
desired, the letter could be more specific with regard to the Bank's 
rules covering press conferences. 
Mr. Cardon agreed that the two questions should be separated. 
He believed that the reply to Chairman Patman should not refer to any 
longer-range questions concerning changes that might be made in news 
dissemination practices. 
Governor Brimmer said he visualized two documents, one of 
which would be a report from the New York Bank to the Board and the 
other a report to the Board by its own staff. The latter need not 
enter into the Board's reply to Chairman Patman, but he was disturbed 
about the handling of release of information at the New York Bank. 
Questions had been raised from time to time in the past, and he 
believed this would be a good occasion to look into the matter. 
Governor Daane agreed that the reply to Mr. Patman and the 
possible need to change news dissemination practices were separate, 
though related, questions. He suggested taking a fresh look at the 
present practices, not only those followed by the New York Reserve 

3 0 4 0 
8/9/68 
-9-
Bank but elsewhere thoughout the System. In further comments he 
described changes that he believed should be made in the draft letter, 
generally with a view to shortening it. 
Governor Maisel noted that the question of making an in-depth 
study of System news dissemination practices was the larger issue. 
Such a study could include the question of the extent to which news 
conferences by the President of the New York Bank had the effect of 
influencing the market. Governor Daane added that speeches by members 
of the Board might also have such an effect. 
Governor Robertson agreed that policy questions were involved 
and suggested that they should be discussed at a time when Chairman 
Martin could be present, along with the reply to be sent to Mr. Patman. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
draft letter would be revised in the light of views that had been 
expressed and that the Board would thereafter give further considera-
tion to that reply as well as to the question of news dissemination 
practices generally. 
Messrs. Brill and Solomon then withdrew from the meeting. 
Bank holding company question (Item No. 6). Mr. O'Connell 
summarized the history of the study by the Board's staff of the status 
under the Bank Holding Company Act of the direct and indirect owner-
ship by certain corporations, their subsidiaries, and individuals 
connected with them of the stock of Gateway National Bank of Chicago, 

3 0 4 1 
8/9/68 
-10-
Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, Mercantile National Bank of Chicago, 
and University National Bank, all of Chicago, Illinois. The corporate 
interests primarily concerned were Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, Inc., 
Defiance Industries, Inc., BSF Corporation, and Gray Line Corporation, 
and the individuals were Victor Muscat, Edward Krock, and Thomas A. 
Bolan. 
In 1967 the Board's staff had requested information regarding 
ownership of stock of the banks in order to determine whether a bank 
holding company relationship was present, and since that time the 
staff had been in frequent communication with counsel for the several 
corporations, particularly Mr. Peyton Ford. In general, the informa-
tion provided by Mr. Ford had been inconsistent and inconclusive. Mr. 
Ford had indicated an intention to propose to his clients a plan of 
divestiture of the stock of two of the banks and merger of the remain-
ing two, thus removing the question of bank holding company status. 
However, the available documentation provided no proof that the ques-
tion was being resolved. Copies of all of the documents and correspon-
dence arising from the investigation had been sent to the Department 
of Justice, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and the Comptroller of the Currency to keep 
them apprised of developments in the matter. 
Another complexity, Mr. O'Connell said, arose from litigation 
instituted against certain of the corporations and individuals, including 

30 
8/9/68 
-11-
a suit by the Securities and Exchange Commission. Those suits had 
recently been decided, but the bank holding company question was left 
open. 
The Legal Division now recommended, Mr. O'Connell continued, 
that the file be referred to the Department of Justice, not with a 
recommendation for criminal prosecution but with a request for study 
and determination of possible violations of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, with any action the Department believed was warranted. 
Governor Brimmer inquired what degree of publicity would be 
envisaged regarding the referral. Mr. O'Connell responded that 
copies of the letter to the Department of Justice would be given to 
counsel for the corporations and individuals involved, and to the 
interested supervisory agencies. He urged that that be the extent 
of publicity for the time being. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether there was any way in which 
the Board could make a determination of bank holding company status, 
so that the corporations would be in willful violation of the Act 
if they refused to register. 
Mr. O'Connell responded that the Board could now determine 
that the staff was correct in its interpretation and instruct the 
corporations either to register immediately or to divest themselves 
of the bank stock. However, in view of the dilatory tactics pursued 
by counsel to date, the Board would probably be in no better position 

3043 
8/9/68 
-12-
than at present. Referral to the Department of Justice would, in his 
opinion, put the matter in a more satisfactory posture. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
approved the recommendation of the Legal Division. A copy of the 
letter subsequently sent to the Department of Justice is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On August 7, 1968, 
Governor Sherrill approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the 
following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Geene D. Powell as Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,889, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Karen Marie Retrum, from the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer 
in the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $4,600, effective August 11, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Lillie M. Hawkins, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, effec-
tive the close of business August 16, 1968. 
On August 8, 1968, Governor Sherrill 
approved on behalf of the Board the 
following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
July 30, 1968, requesting authorization to procure a top secret 
security clearance for Robert I. Bouck, Consultant. 

8/9/68 
-13-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Salary increases, effective August 11, 1968 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Legal 
Robert F. Sanders, Senior Attorney 
$16,946 
$17,511 
J. William Via, Jr., Senior Attorney 
16,946 
17,511 
Research and Statistics 
Clayton Gehman, Chief, Business Conditions Section 24,393 
25,052 
Duane Lougee, Economist 
10,203 
10,543 
Fayette Morrison, Secretary 
6,115 
6,307 
Watkins Leigh Ribble, Jr., Economist 
12,580 
12,986 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Doris V. Bubb, Assistant Operations Analyst 
8,379 
8,612 
John A. Treimann, Federal Reserve Examiner 
13,392 
13,798 
Personnel Administration 
June E. Burns, Assistant to the Director 
14,610 
15,016 
Gena Gander, Personnel Technician 
9,308 
9,590 
Charles W. Wood, Personnel Specialist 
14,889 
15,369 
Administrative Services 
Margaret E. Jenkins, Baker (Cafeteria) 
4,937 
5,078 
Opal I. 0'Dell, Charwoman 
4,279 
4,408 
Office of the Controller 
Dorothy M. Vereb, Accounting Technician 
6,743 
6,955 
Data Processing 
Richard J. Buckley, Jr., Analyst 
12,580 
12,986 
Robert C. Holt, Jr., Senior Programmer 
10,543 
12,174 
(change in title from Programmer) 

3045 
8/9/68 
-14-
Transfer 
Kathryn Anne Krieger, from the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer 
in the Legal Division, with no change in basic annual salary at the 
rate of $5,316, effective August 11, 1968. 
In the absence of Governor Sherrill, 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Patricia Ann Masters as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,145, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Ruth M. Blackman as Clerk-Librarian, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with annual salary at the rate of $2,760 (half-time basis), 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Charles E. Burns as Elevator Repairer-Electrician, Division of 
Administrative Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$8,549, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Charles E. Love as Painter, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,760, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Lucille 0. Molinelli as Assistant Manager, Cafeteria, Division 
of Administrative Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of 
$7,913, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Loree D. Bernard, Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $6,955 to $7,447 per annum, effective August 11, 1968. 
Ruth K. Bradford, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from $5,487 to $5,924 per annum, with a change in title 
to Statistical Assistant, effective August 11, 1968. 
Paul L. Kelty, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $10,883 to $12,174 per annum, effective August 11, 1968. 

8/9/68 
-15-
Acceptance of resignations 
Grace Anne Burnes, Secretary, Division of Supervision and Regula 
tion, effective the close of business August 12, 1968. 
Sue Swanson, Editorial Clerk, Division of Research and Statistic 
effective the close of business August 23, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
On August 7, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co., 
Flint, Michigan, approving the establishment 
of a branch at 352 South Saginaw Street in 
connection with the relocation of the bank's 
main office. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, New York, 
New York, approving the establishment of a branch 
at 616 Madison Avenue. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank, 
Flint, Michigan, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Burton 
Township. 
On August 8, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
New York, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Woodlawn Heights. 

3047 
8/9/68 
-16-
Qn August 8, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
11 
New York, New York, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Port Washington. 
Letter to Marine Midland Grace Trust Company 
12 
of New York, New York, New York, approving 
the establishment of a branch in the Village 
of Jericho. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to St. Joseph Valley Bank, Elkhart, 
13 
Indiana, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Concord Township. 
Letter to Peoples State Bank of Colfax, Colfax, 
14 
Illinois, waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
On August 9, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
15 
approving the designation of Frank L. Caudle 
as special assistant examiner. 
Letter to The Bank of Sussex County, Franklin, 
16 
New Jersey, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Montague Township. 
By the Director of the Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
17 
approving the appointment of James T. Timberlake 
as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative for the 
sole purpose of maintaining custody of Federal 
Reserve notes stored at cash agent banks. 

3048 
8/9/68 
-17-
On August 9, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
Letter to The County Trust Company, White 
18 
Plains, New York, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in the Town of Harrison. 

304.3 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1968. 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, New York, 
New York, pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Tokyo, Japan, and to operate 
and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections 
and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. Please advise the Board 
of Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, when the 
branch is opened for business, furnishing information as to the exact 
location of the branch. The Board should also be promptly informed 
of any future change in location of the branch in Tokyo. 
As you are aware, with respect to the establishment of 
foreign branches, funds provided by home office (whether in the form 
of allocated capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as 
foreign assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
with the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment re-
quired will be made within the guidelines established under the for-
eign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank, Morgan Guaranty Inter-
national Banking Corporation and Morgan Guaranty International Finance 
Corporation, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

O 
J! v 
OfGOv^ 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O m C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TQ T H E 
B O A R D 
August 13, 1968. 
American Institute of Certified 
Public Accountants, 
66§ Fifth Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10019 
Attention: Mr. Richard C. Lytle, Director, 
Accounting-Principles Board. 
Gentlemen: 
This refers to your letter dated May 10, 1968, requesting 
comments on the proposed Opinion of the Accounting Principles Board 
Amending Paragraph 6 of Opinion No. 9, Application to Commercial Banks. 
The application of Opinion No. 9 to commercial banks would 
affirm bank accounting principles included in the industry audit guide 
entitled Audits of Banks published by the committee on bank auditing 
and accounting in March 1968. Certain recommended practices included 
in such guide remain at variance with accounting and financial report-
ing practices required by the Federal bank supervisory agencies. 
Several discussions between representatives of the AICPA 
and the staff members of the Federal supervisory agencies, both prior 
and subsequent to the publication of the guide, have provided a mutual 
understanding of respective positions on the divergent practices. 
In light of current efforts being made to continue active 
communication in the hope of resolving the comparatively few con-
troversial areas in bank accounting, it is suggested that adoption 
of the proposed Opinion be deferred at this time. The benefits that 
can be gained by convergence on generally accepted accounting principles 
applicable to banks are substantial. It would appear that such a goal 
should be pursued further in the interest of the industry and the 
accounting profession. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

«n * \ 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
• F T H E 
8/9/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
As requested in your letter of July 26, the Board of 
Governors approves the following minimum and maximum salaries for 
the respective grades of the employees' salary structures at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago and the Detroit Branch, effective 
September 1, 1968: 
Chicago 
Detroit 
Grade 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum Maximum 
1 
$ 3,330 $ 4,010 
$ 3,510 $ 4,750 
2 
3,330 
4,360 
3,820 
5,160 
3 
3,570 
4,820 
4,130 
5,590 
4 
3,975 
5,370 
4,590 
6,210 
5 
4,450 
6,010 
5,110 
6,910 
6 
4,970 
6,710 
5,620 
7,600 
7 
5,555 
7,495 
6,140 
8,300 
8 
6,170 
8,330 
6,800 
9,200 
9 
6,805 
9,185 
7,490 
10,130 
10 
7,555 
10,205 
8,090 
10,950 
11 
8,325 
11,235 
8,820 
11,940 
12 
9,230 
12,460 
9,540 
12,900 
13 
10,365 
13,995 
10,420 
14,100 
14 
11,610 
15,680 
11,350 
15,350 
' 15 
13,060 
17,650 
12,530 
16,950 
16 
14,660 
19,790 
13,820 
18,700 

'.Vrro 
U V t J>/«. 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon 
- 2 -
i." r .
' 
• 
The Board approves the payment of salaries to employees 
within the limits specified for the grades in which their respective 
positions are classified. All employees whose salaries are below the 
minimums of their grades as a result of the structure increase should 
be brought within appropriate ranges not later than six months after 
the effective date of the new structure. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
'! J « K I i r * j . •; • a . • < < : f •' . c , 
'•: C 
I ' 
. . 
''Ml- » C • ] no L <. ! , ' ; LU ; i. . '" > , 
. i.; : i.r , 
hi- Jy. 
. 
. 
;»:" '",>'•}'<• W • • • 
;*L.iry';:o He, 
J. C in; cm .ii: trhv :r.'iu;, I >;-.**:<.} <...•' • 
' 
. , 0 0 0 
• j,. 
• • 
>H "it 
r 
L 
, 
. 8, ',. 
lit' 
'^•fcuLf I lir.ifU'b . Th t • «'. ;'«'c 0 i? . " 
u 
• )' ' O i r V ; 
> 
'ii• («;» :.n . -. ;< \ • , > f 
i
: 
ti< ibu n ? 
r: : s r .-i j , 
V 
.i ^ 
£ • 
. i t 
' ( > ' ; • 
i i . 

3053 
B O A R D • F GC3VERNDRS 
Item No. 4 
• F T H E 
8/9/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1968 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Rank of S"an Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves payment of 
salary to Mr. John J. Carson at the annual rate of 
$13,000 for the period September 1, 1968 through 
December 31, 1968, as Assistant Manager at the Los 
Angeles Branch. This is the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as advised in your letter of August 1. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

80;.>4 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
8/9/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 9, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 23, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for First National City Bank 
("FNCB") to purchase and hold not more than 50 per cent of the 
shares of Turkiye Osmanli Bankasi ("TOB"), a commercial bank to be 
formed in Turkey, at a cost of approximately $5,550,000, provided 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of T0B by FNCB is granted subject to the condition that 
FNCB shall not hold any shares of stock of TOB if T0B at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible to a national 
bank or to a foreign branch of a national bank under the provisions 
of Regulation M. Subject to continuing observation and review, 
the Board suspends, until further notice, this condition, with the 
understanding that FNCB will advise the Board of any change in the 
control of TOB. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of FNCB, International Banking Corporation, First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, and First National City Bank 
(International), and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Kj\j » JvJ 
Item No. 6 
8/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 19, 1968. 
The Honorable Fred M. Vinson, 
Assistant Attorney General, 
Criminal Division, 
Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C. 
20530 
Attention Mr. Herbert Edelhertz, 
Chief, Fraud Section. 
Your Ref: FMV:HE:29-23-1293 
Dear Mr. Vinson: 
On August 10, 1967, the Board transmitted to you, in 
response to your letter of August 4, 1967, correspondence and re-
lated memoranda and opinions submitted by Mr. Peyton Ford, of the 
law firm of Ford, Ayer, Horan and Lester, Washington, D. C., counsel 
for Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, Inc.; Defiance Industries, Inc.; BSF 
Corporation; and Gray Line Corporation, concerning the ownership by 
the aforementioned corporate interests, by affiliated and/or subsid-
iary corporations, and by certain individuals of the stock of Gateway 
National Bank of Chicago, Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, Chicago, 
Mercantile National Bank of Chicago, and University National Bank, 
Chicago. The Board's interest in corporate ownership and/or control 
of these banks arose in the light of its supervisory responsibilities 
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq 
("the Act"). 
Following study by the Board's staff of the material 
submitted by Mr. Ford, the Board's General Counsel, Mr. Howard H. 
Hackley, advised Mr. Ford, by letter dated August 14, 1967, of the 
staff's views as to the applicability of certain provisions of the Act 
to the facts presented, and of certain conclusions with respect thereto 
reached by the staff. A copy of the General Counsel's letter to 
Mr. Ford was forwarded to you on August 30, accompanied by copies of 
material dated August 22 and August 23, 1967, submitted by Mr. Ford 
in response to specific points raised in Mr. Hackley's August 14 
letter. Copies of the documents furnished you have also been furnished 
to the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Division of Corporation Finance of the Securities 
and Exchange Commission. 

The Honorable Fred M. Vinson 
-2-
*}„• >i srr? 
Mr. Hackley's letter to Mr. Ford of August 14, 1967 reflects 
the conclusion reached by the Board's staff that Defiance Industries 
was, from the facts presented by Mr. Ford, a bank holding company 
under the Act through its direct control of more than 25 per cent of 
the outstanding voting shares 
Guaranty Bank & Trust Company, and 
its indirect control of more than 25 per cent of the outstanding 
voting shares of University National Bank. Attribution of indirect 
control of the latter bank to Defiance was based on information that 
approximately 51 per cent of University National Bank was owned by 
American Steel and Pump Company, 57 per cent of the stock of which was 
owned by BSF Corporation. In turn, approximately 33 per cent of BSF 
stock was owned by Defiance Corporation. The Board's staff further 
concluded that Fifth Avenue Coach Line's, Inc. was a bank holding 
company through its direct control of 25 per cent or more of the out-
standing voting shares of Mercantile National Bank and indirect control 
(through 100 per cent ownership of Surface Transit Co. and the latter's 
ownership of approximately 30 per cent of Gray Line Corporation) of 
Gateway National Bank, 65 per cent of the voting shares of which were 
owned by Gray Line Corporation. The Board's August 14 letter cautioned 
that yet undeveloped lines of inquiry might reflect additional circum-
stances compelling further application of the Act to the various banks 
and companies involved. Mr. Ford was advised that the analysis of the 
facts presented was being furnished in order that he might have an 
opportunity to make such further explanations as might be warranted in 
the circumstances. Within the time permitted for such further explana-
tion, Mr. Ford submitted the above-mentioned response of August 22, 
1967, which incorporates Mr. Ford's stated opinion that none of the 
facts furnished presented "any possible infringement of the provisions 
of the Federal Bank Holding Company Act". Mr. Ford also submitted an 
August 23 letter advising of certain corrections in the August 22 data. 
In late September 1967, Mr. Ford, while continuing to assert 
his earlier-stated August 22 memorandum position of non-violation of 
the Act, nevertheless advised of his intent to submit a proposal which, 
in his judgment, would result in stock divestments, sales, and/or 
mergers that would remove Defiance and Fifth Avenue Coach Lines from 
the bank holding company status attributed to them by the Board's staff. 
On or about October 27, 1967, the Securities and Exchange Commission 
instituted suit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District 
of New York against Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, Victor Muscat, Edward Krock, 
and Thomas A. Bolan, seeking a preliminary and permanent injunction, 
and appointment of a trustee or receiver and other equitable relief 
with respect to Fifth Avenue Coach Lines. Immediately prior to and 
during the trial of this case relatively little data were submitted 
to the Board with respect to the divestment proposals earlier mentioned. 

o t i o < 
The Honorable Fred M. Vinson 
-3-
Mr. Ford and his associate, Mr. Urban Lester, did 
intermittently communicate with the Board's staff, advising of 
occurrences and developments in the SEC trial and asserting diffi-
culties encountered in obtaining bank holding company data requested 
by the Board's staff, in the main attributing such difficulties to 
the involvement of the corporations and individuals concerned in the 
SEC litigation. The Board received a series of letters and telegrams, 
transmitted at the request of the New York law firm of Saxe, Bacon & 
Bolan, purporting to substantiate earlier information submitted re-
garding the stockholdings of Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, et al., in the 
banking and nonbanking interests herein above mentioned. Copies of 
these letters and telegrams are available for your study. 
Incident to and shortly following the institution by the 
SEC of its action against Fifth Avenue Coach Lines, et al., the Saxe, 
Bacon & Bolan firm advised the SEC through its Assistant General 
Counsel Meyer Eisenberg, of the intent by Gray Line Corporation to 
dispose of the stock owned in the Gateway National Bank of Chicago, 
and that no sale of this stock would be consummated without prior 
written notification to the SEC. A copy of the law firm's letter to 
the SEC, signed by Roy M. Cohn, dated November 9, 1967, is enclosed, 
together with a copy of a letter of November 1, 1967, from Mr. Eisenberg, 
to which the November 9 letter is a response (Attachment A). 
On May 3, 1968, a meeting was held with Mr. Lester in the 
Board's offices, at the request of the Board's staff, for the purpose 
of ascertaining why divestment action earlier proposed by Mr. Ford 
had not been taken, and to obtain a written statement of then current 
stock ownerships between, among, and of the bank and nonbank corporations 
involved, together with a written statement of divestment action taken 
and/or to be taken. At this meeting, the Board's staff expressed its 
concern over the great difficulty encountered in eliciting detailed 
information regarding stock ownerships by their corporate clients as 
of a single, identical date. It was made clear that, because of the 
involved intercorporate relationships with which the staff was dealing* 
an accurate determination of bank holding company status depended in 
large measure upon accurate, reliable data reflecting the same dates 
with respect to all such stock ownerships. This point had been made 
with counsel on several occasions. Mr. Lester was advised of the 
staff's position that the various data submitted since the August 14, 
1967 letter had not effected any change in the conclusion of the Board's 
staff as set forth in that letter. 
As reflected in the enclosed letter and memorandum dated 
May 7, 1968 (Attachment B), prepared pursuant to our staff's request 
at the May 3 meeting, Mr. Ford assured the staff of data submission on 

3058 
The Honorable Fred M. Vinson 
-4-
or before May 17 and June 19, 1968, respectively. On May l), 
purportedly in compliance with the written assurance of May 7, 
Mr. Ford transmitted a statement of corrective actions taken to 
achieve compliance with the Act, together with an estimate of when 
total corrective actions might be anticipated. A copy of Mr. Ford's 
May 17 letter is enclosed (Attachment C). Also enclosed is a copy 
of a telegram (Attachment D) received by the Board on June 27, 1968, 
addressed to Mr. Ford by the Saxe, Bacon & Bolan firm confirming oral 
advice given with respect to efforts on behalf of Defiance Industries, 
BSF, and American Steel and Pump to dispose of their respective bank 
stockholdings. As of the date on which this telegram was received, 
Mr. Ford was five days delinquent in his submission of the data 
promised in his May 7 letter to the Board. This fact was transmitted 
by telephone to Mr. Ford's office, in response to which Mr. Ford 
advised of the great difficulty he and his law firm associate were 
having in getting his clients to comply with his requests for the data 
promised. By letter dated June 26, 1968 (Attachment E, enclosed here-
with) received by the Board on June 28, 1968, a member of the Saxe, 
Bacon & Bolan firm transmitted to Mr. Ford another "revision of the 
stockholdings among persons affiliated with the Defiance Group and the 
various banks". This "revision", particularly paragraphs A., B., and 
C. thereof, was forwarded to the Board in apparent compliance with 
Mr. Ford's May 7 agreement. A review of the June 26 communication 
clearly reflected, in the judgment of the staff, a substantial variance 
from the data that Mr. Ford had agreed would be submitted. Under date 
of August 1, 1968, Mr. Ford transmitted a further communication 
(Attachment F, enclosed herewith) with reference to the "sale of the 
shares owned by Defiance, BSF, and Fifth Avenue in the Mercantile 
National Bank of Chicago", and a copy of an undated, unsigned option 
agreement relating to a proposed sale of stock of Gateway National Bank 
of Chicago, University National Bank, and Guaranty Bank and Trust 
Company. 
On August 9, 13, 15, and 16, calls were made by and on behalf 
of Mr. Ford and Mr. Lester to the Board's staff, advising of continuing 
efforts to obtain from their New York clients data that would comply 
wholly with the repeated requests of the Board's staff. Delivery to 
the Board's staff, by August 16 or August 19, was assured of chart pre-
sentations reflecting data of the nature continuously promised by 
counsel. Such data, if and when received, will be promptly transmitted 
to your Department. 
The foregoing recitation reflects efforts by the Board's 
staff to confirm, with as much certainty as possible, its original 
determinations with respect to the applicability of the Bank Holding 
Company Act to the corporations here involved. The staff's efforts 

The Honorable Fred M. Vinson 
- 5 -
Kj\j 
have been limited by the fact that the applicable statute does not 
provide the Board with subpoena and deposition power. We believe that 
the corporations here involved, and their representatives, have been 
afforded more than fair and adequate opportunity to comply with re-
quests for information and/or corrective action considered necessary 
under the Act. 
Accordingly, the Board has directed that the record in this 
matter be referred to your office for appropriate study and determina-
tion as to violations of the Bank Holding Company Act, and for any 
action that you may believe is warranted by the facts presented. We 
believe the enclosures to this letter, when read in conjunction with 
our earlier communications to you, will constitute a sufficient basis 
for the suggested determination. Mr. Thomas J. O'Connell, Deputy 
General Counsel (Code 147, Ext. 294), and Mrs. Pauline Heller, Senior 
Attorney (Ext. 274), will be available at your convenience to discuss, 
and further explore, if necessary, any aspect of this matter. 
Your assistance in the matter of this referral is appreciated 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

,0. 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
8/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust Co., 
Flint, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by Genesee 
Merchants Bank & Trust Co., Flint, Michigan, at 352 South Saginaw 
Street Flint, Michigan, in connection with the relocation of the 
bank's'main office from 352 South Saginaw Street to the intersection 
of East First Street and Harrison Street, Flint, Michigan, provided 
the branch is established within six months from the date of this 
letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that your management is adequate, that the proposed branch will 
serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that estab-
lishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

ISr 
' 
* 
AC UOA.2-4/67 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF N E W Y O R K 
8/9/68 
i 
N E W Y O R K . N E W Y O R K 
1 0 0 4 5 
August 7, 19^8 
«or 
Mr. William R. Cross, Jr. 
Senior Vies President 
Morgan Guaranty Trust Company 
Wall Street 
He* York, Hew York 
10015 
Dear Mr. Crosst 
you: 
th 
^ 
we refer to your bank's application dated July 17, 
1966, 
"equesting permission to establish a branch office at 616 Madieon 
enue, Ifev York, Wev Tork. After reviewing the 
light of the factors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of t h e 
RufWa Regarding Delegation of Authority iesued by the Board o f 
Governors of the Federal Reserve 8ystem, we have concluded 
t h a t 
1 application ehould be approved. Accordingly, on behalf of 
Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of Hew Tork, act-
m 
under delegated authority, approves the establishment by your 
ank of a branch office at the above-mmntioned location, provided 
is established within one year from the date of this letter, 
I 
and provided further, that the branch at 65^ Madison Avenue, Hew 
Haw York, i« closed simultaneously with the opening o f 
t h e 
branch at its new location. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the new branch 
V 
i« actually established and opensd for business, and when the opera-
\ 
tions at the existing office have baan discontinued. Please let us 
\ 
ktvew the effective date of opening of the new branch, t h e name, if 
\ 
ihy, by which it will be known, and the official postal addrese, 
^including the sip code number. 
Kindly acknowledge receipt by signing and r e t u r n i n g 
t h e 
enclosed copy of this letter to Mr. Ben Stsckhouse, Manager, Ban* 
Examinations Department. 
Sincerely yours, 
Thomas M. Timlcn, Jr. 
Vice president 
Xncloaure 
JSKtag 

3 3 6 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Item No. 9 
8/9/68 
2 JO SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60*90 
(312) HA 7-2J20 
August 7, 1968 
Mr* James R. Burroughs 
Chairman of the Board 
Citizens Commercial & Savings Bank 
328 South Saginaw Street 
Flint, Michigan 48502 
Dear Mr. Burroughs: 
j 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting 
under delegated authority, this bank has extended to 
January 27, 1969, the time in which your bank may 
establish a branch at G-413G East Court Street, Burton 
Township, Genesee county, Michigan. 
Very truly yours 
Leiand Ross 
Vice President 
LI: rk 
cc - Board of Governors * 
Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
Michigan Financ 
Detroit Branch 
Examiner's file 
C O P Y 

/67 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF N E W Y O R K 
I T E M 
N O- 
1 0 
8/9/68 
N E W YORK. N E W YORK 10045 
^ 8 
/968 
Nr. Michael J. Q U I 
Assistant Yreaaurer 
Bankera Tp\«t Company 
16 Wall Street 
lleir Tor It, *ev York 
10015 
Dear Mr. 0111t 
We refer to your letter of Auguat 2, 1968, request-
ing an extension of tiee within which your bank may eatabliah 
a branch offlee at the eouthweat oorner of Katonah Avenue «\nd 
Bast 2*0th Street, Woodlawn Heights, Bronx, Hew York, aa ap-
prored by the Federal 1eaerre Bank of lev York, under delegated 
authority, on October 9# 1967* 
On behalf of the Board of Ooveraora, the Federal 
Beaerve Bank of Hew York, acting under delegated authority, 
approvea your requeat and extends to Deceofoer 9, 1966 the tine 
within which your bank May establish a branch at the above 
location* 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
ie established and opened for business, giving the effective 
date of opening, the nave, if any, by Which it will be known, 
and the official postal address including sip code number* 
Please acknowledge receipt of thla letter by algnlng 
and returning the enclosed copy to us* 
Yery truly yours. 
Enclosure 
DO tan 
Leonard Lapldua 
Assistant flee President 

L'140A.2-1 t / 6 7 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF N E W YORK 
I T E M 
N O- 
1 1 
8/9/68 
N E W YORK, NEW YORK 10045 
AUG 8 
1968 
K*. Paul A. Bemmell 
mlor Yicc Preaident 
Kam^acturera Hanover Trust Company 
330 Park Avanua 
»aw York, Raw York 
10022 
Daar Mr. Raa.malli 
Ve rafar to your bank^s application dated June 21, 19*3, 
seating per»iasion to aatabliah a branch office at 1020 Port 
ttaaWngbon Boulevard, eouthweat corner of Port Washington Boule-
•*rd V n d Main Street, Port Washington, laaaau County, Nan York. 
Attar) reviewing tha application in the light of tha faetora anu-
acratfrd lb flection 265.2(f)(1) of tha Bules Begarding Delegation 
°f Authority iaauad by tha Board of Governors of tha Fadaral Be-
a System, we have concludad that your application ahould ba 
oved. 
Accordingly, on bahalf of tha Board of Oovernore, the 
al Bescrve Bank of Bew York, acting undar dalagatad authority, 
_vee thaaaatabliahmant by your bank of a branch offica at tha 
o-ncntioned location, provided it ia aatabliahad within ona 
year of tha data of thia lattar. 
We ahall appraciata your advising ua whan tha branch ia 
actually aatabliahad and opendd for business, giving tha effec-
tive/date of opaning, tha na»e, if any, by which it will ba known, 
tha official postal addraas. Including tha sip code numbar. 
Plaasa acknowladga racaipt of thia lattar by aigning 
*»d returning tha encloaed copy to ua. 
; n. .'1 
•cry truly youra, 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Tice President 
*hcloaure 

3065 
c 
0 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
P 
Y 
New York, New York 
10045 
I t e m N o < 
1 2 
8/9/68 
August 8, 1968 
Mr. Crocker Nevin 
President 
Marine Midland Grace Trust 
Company of New York 
140 Broadway 
New York, New York 
10015 
Dear Mr. Nevin: 
...... , i • >./•> . „ v « s 
'.• • 
We refer to your bank's application dated July 12, 
1968, requesting permission to establish a branch office at 
366 North Broadway, Village of Jericho (unincorporated area), 
Town of Oyster Bay, Nassau County, New York. After reviewing 
the application in the light of the factors enumerated in 
Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding Delegation of 
Authority issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, we have concluded that your application should be approved. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of Governors, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, acting under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment by your bank of a branch office at 
the above-mentioned location, provided it is established within 
six months of the date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
is actually established and opened for business, giving the 
effective date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will 
be known, and the official postal address, including the zip 
code number. 
Kindly acknowledge receipt by signing and returning 
to us the enclosed copy of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(s) Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2J0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No. 13 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
8/9/68 
(112) HA 7-2 J20 
August 8, 1968 
Mr. Terrence D. Brennan 
Executive Vice President 
St. Joseph Valley Bank 
Elkhart, Indiana b6^1k 
Dear Mr. Brennan. 
iUithcri.? y, 
* ^oxi. 
fch 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank grants an extension of thirty days 
from August 153 1968, of the time in which your bank may 
establish a branch at the intersection of U. S. 20 and Middleton Run 
Road, Concord Township, Elkhart County, Indiana. 
Very truly yours, 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
.YK •> 
>'»hoel' i* 
LR:rk 
cc - Board of Governors 
Indiana Dept. of Financial Institutions 
Examiner's file 
f 
C O P Y 
^193 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
210 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
Item No 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60W0 
8/9/68 
(312) HA 7-2320 
August 8, 1968 
. i'V )'; 
Mr. Harold A. Weppler, Cashier 
Peoples State Bank of Colfnx 
Colfax, Illinois 
Dear Mr. Weppler: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, this Bank waives the requirement of six months' notice of with-
<lrawal from the Federal Reserve System. Under the provisions of 
Section 208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may 
accomplish termination of its membership at any time within eight 
wonths from the date that notice of intention to withdraw from membership 
was given. Upon surrender to the Federal Reserve Bonk of Chicago of 
the Federal Reserve otocl: issued to your institution, such stock will 
be cancelled and appropriate refund will be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
•
.
.
.
. 
Leiand Ross 
Vice President 
C O P Y 
^193 

3068 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 15 
8/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 13, 1968 
Mr. Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
i i v. > . . . :». .: ' 
" . ' 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 6, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the designation of Frank L. Caudle, as a 
special assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
The authorization heretofore given your Bank to approve 
Mr. Caudle as an assistant examiner is hereby canceled. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Jfl^v. 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 16 
8/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 13, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Bank of Sussex County, 
Franklin, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by The Bank of 
Sussex County, Franklin, New Jersey, at the Tri-State Mall, New 
Jersey State Highway No. 23 adjacent to the interchange with 
Route 84 and U.S. Route 6, Montague Township, Sussex County, New 
Jersey, provided the branch is established within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of 
the community without creating an undesirable competitive situation. 
It is understood that your bank is in the process of obtaining addi-
tional senior-management personnel, and that consideration is being 
given to further strengthening of your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 0 7 0 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 17 
8/9/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1968 
Mr. Howard W. Johnson, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 • 
Dear Mr. Johnson: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the request 
contained in your letter of August 6, 1968, for the appointment of 
Mr. James T. Timberlake as Federal Reserve Agent's Representative 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston for the sole purpose of 
maintaining custody of Federal Reserve notes stored at cash agent 
banks. 
Please have Mr. Timberlake execute the usual Oath of 
Office which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors along 
with notification of the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I 
'40A.2-11 
FEDERAL R E S E R / E E ANK OF I s* 
YORK 
1 r >, y^yi 
O U / 1 
Item No. 18 
8/9/68 
NEW YORK, N E W YORK 10045 
HUG 9 I960 
Jlr. John A* ttloy 
President 
he C£unty f m o t Company 
ttain Btroet 
Vhite Flalna, Hon fork 
10602 
Doar Hr. Kl«yi 
We rofer to your Look'* application dated Hay ii, 
1/66, requesting p o r c u l o n to eetabllsh a branch office in 
he immediate vicinity of the intersection of veetcheeter 
enue aad Baviland's La no, Town of Itarrlaon (unincorporated 
a r W ) , veetcheeter Count/, 0ev York* 
After reviewing tha 
application in tho light of tha factors enumerated la Sect!on 
'.•2(f)(1) of tha ftules Begardlog Delegation of Authority 
eeaed by tha Board of Oovernore of tha Federal Heserve feyotea, 
V8 hare concluded that your application ahould fce approved* 
Accordingly, on behalf of tha Board of Oovernore, tha Federal 
Reserve Bank of Be* fork, acting under delegated authority, 
roves tha eetabllabsent by your bank of a branch at the 
ebotoe-neatloned location, provided it la eetabliahad v1thla 
one year of tae date of thla latter* 
we ahali appreciate your advising us of the exact 
V
location of the branch and when it la actually eetabliahad 
*nd opened for luaineea, giving tha effective date of opening, 
the name, if any, by which It will be known, and tho official 
poetal addreee, Including the alp code uuaber. 
Please acknowledge receipt of tula letter ty signing 
and returning the oncloaed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred V. Piderlt, Jr. 
floe Preeldent 
tncloeure 
