FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 2, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If 
you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
^Nofcer: 
^ r ^ e rniiiutf^sr ^xcetft editort&r changes 
suggested by Chairman Burns in the last paragraph on 
page 2. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 2, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
:
 -'iV. ifv":!'." ,, t; 
. , 
. 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger, Assistant to the Secretary, Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary, Office 
of the Secretary 
Miss Ryon, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Economic and financial review. The regular weekly economic 
and financial review was presented. Copies of the statistical charts 
and tables prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's 
files, along with copies of the individual briefings; these were also 
made available to all Board members. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also attended. 

2778 
10/2/70 
-2-
Legislative review. Mr. Cardon brought the Board up to date 
on pending legislation of interest to the Federal Reserve. 
Members of the staff who had attended for the presentation of 
the economic and financial review withdrew from the meeting at this 
point and Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel, and Johnson, Director, 
Division of Personnel Administration, entered. 
BancOhio Corporation. The Board authorized the issuance of 
an order and statement reflecting approval on September 14, 1970, of 
the application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of Akron National Bank and Trust Company, Akron, Ohio. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 1, along with 
a dissenting statement by Governor Robertson. 
FOMC schedule. 
The Federal Open Market Committee, at its 
meeting on September 15, had left to Chairman Burns for decision the 
matter of establishing the schedule of Committee meetings for 1971. 
Chairman Burns now stated that upon further consideration he 
had decided, unless there were objections, in favor of maintaining the 
13-meeting schedule for 1971, with the aim, however, of moving to a 
12-meeting schedule in 1972 in the absence of developments that might 
suggest otherwise. Any Committee member, of course, could reopen the 
question of the 1972 schedule for discussion at the appropriate time 
should he so desire. 

2 7 7 1 ) 
10/2/70 
- 3-
In the discussion that followed, it was suggested that there 
should be more latitude to call special meetings of the Committee from 
time to time if conditions warranted. No objections were indicated to 
thewcourse of action referred to by the Chairman, and it was understood 
that an announcement reflecting his decision on the 1971 schedule and 
the plan to move to a 12-meeting schedule in 1972 would be made to the 
Committee. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Officer appointment at Boston. Governor Brimmer, in his 
capacity as»a member of the Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans, presented a letter from President Morris of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston dated September 28, 1970, in which Mr. 
Morris reported and commented upon action taken by his Bank's directors 
to appoint Norman T. Byrnes, managing partner of a leading Boston law 
firm, as a Senior Vice President of the Bank effective January 1, 1971, 
with annual salary at the rate of $37,500, subject to the approval of 
the Board of Governors. 
It was hoped that Mr. Byrnes would become an 
obvious candidate to succeed to the position of First Vice President 
upon the retirement of the incumbent in mid-1973, although no commit-
ment in that regard was being made or requested at this time. 
Also, 
it was planned to bring in Mr. Byrnes with the title of Senior Vice 
President for Legal Affairs, with the incumbent Vice President and 
General Counsel continuing in that capacity. 

2780 
10/2/70 
-4-
The only question raised by Board members with respect to the 
appointment related to the use of the proposed title of Senior Vice 
President for Legal Affairs. 
It was felt that this might create 
problems organizationally within the Bank, and in addition serve as a 
precedent that could lead to somewhat similar proposals from other 
Reserve Banks. 
Therefore, the appointment of Mr. Byrnes at the level of Senior 
vice President was approved unanimously with salary at the indicated 
r a
t e , effective January 1, 1971, but with the understanding that the 
proposed title of Senior Vice President for Legal Affairs would be 
discussed with President Morris in the light of the reservations that 
• 
_ 
: i » 
.. 
. 
had been expressed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
• > V 
i i J 
i. • V • * . 
; 
; ; 
. , 
. .. , X !. 
. 
.. 
. 
. 

2781 
Item No. 1 
10/2/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION,
 
1 
Columbus, Ohio,
 
1 
f
or approval of acquisition of more 
' 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
' 
of Akron National Bank and Trust
 
1 
Company, Akron, Ohio. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)) an application by BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, 
°hio, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of Akron National Bank and Trust Company, Akron, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

2 7 8 2 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on July 15, 1970 (35 Federal Register 11316), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
i s
 approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°tder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r
 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 2, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2 7 8 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
> OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, COLUMBUS,' OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
AKRON NATIONAL BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
AKRON, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio ('Applicant'), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for ptior approval of the acquisition of more 
•than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Akron National Bank and 
T
^ s t Company, Akron, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applica-
tion was given to the Comptroller of the Currency, and his views and 
recommendation were requested. The Comptroller recommended approval 
o f
 the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
o f
 the United States, Nor may;the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 

2 7 8 4 
-2-
I 
j., 
the effect of which, in any section of the country^ taay be substantially 
j 
to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
°ther manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the effect of the transaction in 
meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
In 
each case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
a
nd managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - Applicant 
i s
 the largest bank holding company and the second largest banking 
°
r
ganization in the State of Ohio, with 24 banking subsidiaries, con-
1/ 
tolling $1.2 billion in deposits. 
Applicant presently holds 6 per 
cent of the deposits held by all banking organizations in Ohio; its 
share of such deposits would increase to 7 per cent as a result of the 
Proposed acquisition. 
Bank, which has deposits of $210 million, is headquartered in 
Al
<ron (Summit County), which is 33 miles south of Cleveland, in the 
n o
rthwestern section of Ohio. None of Bank's offices is within 50 miles 
o f
 an office of any of Applicant's subsidiaries (which are located 
m a
inly i n central-southern Ohio), and there is no significant 
competition between Bank and such subsidiaries. 
A
1 1 banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding 
c
°mpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

M. 
2 7 8 5 
-3-
Bank, which holds 19 per cent of county deposits, is the second 
l a
rgest of five banks in Akron, and of six banks operating in Summit 
County, it presently has 13 offices and has supervisory approval to 
establish three additional offices in the county. 
The largest bank in the city and county holds $472 million 
l n d e
P°
s
its (43 per cent of the county total) and has 28 offices 
(42 
p e r 
c e n t
 of the county total). The third, fourth, and fifth 
l a
rgest county banks, all of which are located in Akron, are controlled 
b y 
l a r
8 e non-banking corporations, and have deposits, respectively, 
o f
 $168 million, $148 million, and $86 million. The only other bank 
i n
 the county is an independent bank with deposits of $25 million, 
l o
cated in Twinsburg, 20 miles northeast of Akron. Because of the 
P^ximity of Akron to Cleveland, the five largest Cleveland banks, all 
f
 uhich are among the 10 largest banking organizations in the State, 
h a V e 
s i
8
n
ificant competitive influence in Akron. 
Consummation of the present proposal would neither eliminate 
Present competition nor have undue adverse effects on any competitor of 
Bank. 
Ohio law restricts branching to the county in which is located 
the m a i n 
o f f
i c e of the bank involved. There are at least two intervening 
U n
ties between Bank and each of Applicant's present subsidiaries, thus 
oluding the development of competition as a result of branching. 
In view nf 
o t
 the size of the largest area bank, and the firm corporate 
Control of the three other Akron banks, it does not appear that there 

-4-
2 7 8 6 
exists a significant probability that Applicant could compete in Akron 
through a competitively preferable acquisition. Because of its location, 
a c
quisition of the only other county bank would not appear to offer 
the opportunity for a meaningful impact on competition in Akron; in any 
case, that bank's management has indicated a desire to remain independent. 
Nor does Applicant's establishment and acquisition of a new bank in 
Akron appear to be a likely alternative, in view of the size of competing 
banks and the declining population of the city. 
Although the size of Bank would appear to indicate that it 
could become a leading force in a competing holding company, closer 
a
nalysis leads to a contrary conclusion. Bank was a Morris Plan bank 
u
ntil I960, and although it is gradually becoming more commercially 
oriented, its emphasis is still on consumer services, rather than the 
services typical of a^commercial bank of its size. It has no corres-
pondent business. The character of its operations would likely limit its 
c a
pability as a lead bank. Moreover, the anticompetitive effect of the 
foreclosure of such potential as exists is minimized by the large 
number of banks in Ohio equally or better suited to that role. There 
a r e
 25 independent banks in the State with deposits in excess of 
$100 million, and nine with deposits of over $400 million. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a 
monopoly, nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or 

-5-
2 7 8 7 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United 
States, and would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition 
°r tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. 
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank is 
satisfactory, their managements competent and their prospects favorable. 
These considerations lend no significant weight toward approval 
the application, but are consistent with such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities to be served -
The convenience and needs of customers of Applicant's present sub-
sidiaries would not be significantly affected by the instant proposal. 
The needs of the Akron area appear to be adequately met by 
Present banking facilities. However, the commercial services of 
Bank would be expanded as a result of Applicant's proposal. With the 
assistance of Applicant's lead bank, international banking services 
w
ould be initiated in Akron. Such services are presently available in 
Cleveland, but not from any bank in Akron. Loan participations with 
Applicant's other subsidiaries would be facilitated, to better meet 
the credit needs of medium-sized businesses in the area. 
These considerations provide some weight toward approval of 
t h e
 application. 

-6-
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
application should be approved. 
October 2, 
1970. 

2789 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Under the present proposal, a $200 million deposit bank, the 
second largest in a concentrated market centered in one of Ohio's 
roost important cities, would be acquired by the largest bank holding 
company in the State. These circumstances alone call for close 
8
crutiny of the effect of the proposal on potential competition and 
on the banking structure of the markets affected. Such scrutiny in 
the present case confirms - rather than denies that such an acquisition 
would have serious anticompetitive effects. Furthermore, I am not 
convinced by anything contained in the application and supporting 
documents that consummation of the proposal would provide any off-
setting benefits to the community. Indeed, it could result in less 
satisfactory service to smaller customers in the area. I would 
therefore deny the application. 
There are only six banks in Summit County, serving a 
Population of 556,000. The two largest of these account for over 
6 0
 per cent of the total deposits held by the six banks. Contrary 
to the conclusion of the majority, I believe these figures indicate 
fc
hat there is not only room for new entrants in the area, but a 
need for additional competition which such entry would provide. 
Even it it be assumed that acquisition of Bank is the only 
feasible means through which Applicant can effectively serve the 
Akron area, that circumstance only serves as a basis for determining 
Applicant's interest in the proposal, not the public interest. The 

2 7 9 0 
-2-
mandate of the Bank Holding Company Act is to control the expansion 
of bank holding companies - not to provide an avenue through which 
they can participate in every desirable market. Even assuming that 
a
 given acquisition represents the only method through which an 
applicant might expand into a given market, that proposal cannot 
Properly be approved unless it meets the statutory criteria. A 
Proposal such as the present one fails to meet such criteria, not 
°nly because combinations of large banking organizations inevitably 
tend to reduce the number of significant competitors within the 
State, but also because experience indicates that such combinations 
d o
 not necessarily contribute to greater satisfaction of community 
convenience and needs - sometime quite the reverse. 
In the present case, consummation of the proposal would 
tend to perpetuate an extreme level of concentration in the Akron 
a
rea. While the Board's majority apparently views Bank's present 
emphasis on consumer activities as a mitigating circumstance, I 
v
iew that emphasis, coupled with Bank's rapid growth, as indicating 
that Bank is presently serving a need which other banks in the area 
m a
y not be serving as well. To the extent that consummation of the 
Proposal might result in a change of emphasis to the detriment of 
smaller customers, I find considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the Akron area to provide additional weight against 
approval of the application. 
For these reasons, I would deny the application. 
October 2, 1970. 
