Minutes for 
January 13, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
n 

128 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, January 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Williams, Axilrod, Sigel, Eckert, 
Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Baker, 
Gemmill, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on developments in the 
Government securities market, particularly in the period following the 
President's State of the Union Message, and commented on current and 
prospective Federal agency financing. Mr. Fry analyzed bank credit 
projections, and Mr. Brill commented on Commerce Department estimates 

1 2 1 
1/13/67 
-2-
of fourth quarter GNP. Copies of the tables and charts distributed in 
connection with today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Solomon, and Sammons then withdrew and the following entered the room: 
Messrs. Hackley, Hexter, O'Connell, and Shay of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Solomon and Smith of the Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Harris, Coordinator of Defense Planning 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on January 11 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on January 12, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved letters. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached under the respective item numbers indicated, were approved 
unanimously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board: 
Item No. 
Letter to International Banking Corporation, 
New York, New York, consenting to its acquisi-
tion of shares of a commercial bank to be known 
as First National City Bank (Morocco), Casablanca, 
Morocco. 
1 
Letter to Chase International Investment Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, consenting to the 
acquisition of shares of Corporacion Interamericana, 
S.A., Mexico City, Mexico. 
2 

1 . 2 2 
1/13/67 
-3-
Examining conference. After consideration of a memorandum from 
Mr. Solomon (Examinations) dated January 11, 1967, the Board approved 
the holding of a Conference of Representatives of Bank Examination 
Departments of the Federal Reserve Banks in Washington on March 16-17, 
1967, and authorized payment of the cost of a dinner to be held at a 
local hotel incident to the conference, with the understanding that a 
list of those to be invited to attend the dinner would be submitted for 
approval at a later date. 
250 Park Avenue Corporation (Item No. 3). On several previous 
occasions, most recently in June 1966, the Board had considered whether 
Marine Midland Grace Trust Company of New York City could, under sec-
tion 4(c)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, retain the out-
standing stock of 250 Park Avenue Corporation, a corporation holding 
the leasehold of the building in which the bank's mid-town office was 
located. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated January 11, 1967, 
reviewed the history of the matter and recommended that the bank be 
advised, through a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York along 
the lines of an attached draft, that a ruling under section 4(c)(1) was 
not necessary on grounds that the investment in 250 Park Avenue Corpora-
tion became permissible under section 4(c)(5) of the Holding Company Act 
upon repeal of section 6 of that Act. 

1 . 2 3 
1/13/67 
-4-
The reasoning underlying the recommendation was essentially as 
follows: The repeal of section 6 had made available to the bank the 
exemption from the restrictions of section 4(a) that was provided by 
section 4(c)(5). 250 Park Avenue Corporation was a bank premises com-
pany, and national banks and State member banks were permitted under 
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes and section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (subject to the provisions of sections 23A and 24A of the 
Federal Reserve Act) to invest in the stock of such corporations for 
their own account. Thus, it was only necessary for the Board to find 
that the shares of 250 Park Avenue Corporation were "of the kinds and 
amounts eligible for investment by national banks." 
In discussion Governor Robertson reported some concern on the 
part of the Acting Comptroller of the Currency about substantial invest-
ments in buildings in which the bank occupied only a small portion of 
the total space. This led to the question whether to check with the 
Comptroller's Office before the proposed letter was sent. The point 
also was made that in this particular case it appeared, on the basis of 
information supplied in the Legal Division's memorandum, that the bank's 
use or occupancy of space in the 250 Park Avenue Building could be 
regarded as "substantial," thereby enabling a favorable interpretation 
under section 4(c)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act. A reason given 
against proceeding on that basis was that analysis might then be required 
of a number of cases where bank buildings were partially occupied by 

124 
1/13/67 
-10-
other subsidiary banks of Marine Midland Corporation or by subsidiary 
banks of other holding companies. 
After consideration of the alternatives, a consensus developed 
in favor of making a ruling of the kind contemplated by the draft 
letter, with the understanding, however, that before the letter was 
sent the Board's staff would check with the Comptroller's Office the 
accuracy of the language of the penultimate paragraph of the draft 
letter. The sending of the proposed letter then was approved unani-
mously, subject to such a check being made. 
Secretary's Note: Subsequent inquiry 
revealed that the Comptroller's Office 
had no objection to the language con-
tained in the part of the letter that 
the staff had been requested to check. 
Accordingly, the letter was sent to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Selective credit control authority in national emergencies. A 
memorandum from Governor Maisel dated January 10, 1967, reported that 
there had been received from the Office of Emergency Planning for review 
and comment four sets of draft legislative proposals establishing author-
ity for economic controls in the event of a national emergency. While 
the proposals were substantially overlapping, the Office of Emergency 
Planning indicated that no preference among them need be made, at least 
for the present, since different variants might be called for in differ-
ent situations. 

1 2 5 
1/13/67 
-10-
The four proposals, described in more detail in an appended 
memorandum, all included authority for the imposition of direct controls 
on prices, wages, and rents. Three of the proposals included authority 
for consumer rationing. Only one contained authority for credit con-
trols, and that was limited to the control of consumer and real estate 
construction credit or reinstatement of the Board's former Regulations W 
and X, having to do with consumer credit and real estate credit, respec-
tively. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Board should decide as a 
policy matter whether authority to impose selective credit controls 
might be desirable in all situations where aggregate demand was so far 
out of balance with supply as to require direct controls over prices, 
wages, and rents; and, if so, whether such authority should be broad 
enough to permit the redirection of credit availability in the national 
interest or limited to the reinstatement of consumer and real estate 
credit controls. 
Governor Maisel recommended that the Office of Emergency 
Planning be urged to add broad standby authority for selective finan-
cial controls, in the manner expressed in draft language attached to 
his memorandum, to each of the four legislative proposals. (The author-
ity would be given to the President, with power of delegation to agencies 
of his choice.) 
In the event such a proposal was not acceptable to the Office of 
Emergency Planning, Governor Maisel suggested that standby authority for 

1 2 8 
1/13/67 
-7-
the imposition of consumer and real estate construction credit controls, 
as expressed in another draft attached to his memorandum, be substituted 
for the language in the first legislative proposal and be included in 
all of the legislative proposals. This authority would be broad enough 
to permit a variety of regulatory approaches, such as at the "wholesale" 
level. 
Governor Maisel further recommended that a System committee be 
authorized to develop specific regulations and to consider administra-
tive and organizational arrangements in the event that broad standby 
credit controls were actually placed in effect. 
In commenting, Governor Maisel said the Office of Emergency 
Planning had become concerned about the fact that, whereas plans were 
in readiness for a full-scale war emergency, plans that would be suit-
able for a limited emergency situation had not been prepared. Hence, 
an advisory group representing various economic agencies of the Govern-
ment was established, and it had developed the four draft legislative 
proposals. If circumstances required, one of the four proposals would 
be presented to the President with the suggestion that he ask the 
Congress to enact the proposed legislation. Further comments by Governor 
Maisel amplified on the remarks and recommendations in his memorandum. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the draft proposals would appear 
to afford an adequate system of direct controls on the physical side. 
If so, he doubted the need for the imposition of selective credit controls. 

1 2 7 
1/13/67 
-10-
Governor Mitchell suggested that an alternative approach would 
be to enlarge the range of reserve requirements and to put ceilings on 
the flows of funds into financial intermediaries. 
After further discussion of the draft legislation and alterna-
tive possibilities, Mr. Shay said the intent was clearly to give to 
the President, with Congressional approval, standby authority to be 
exercised in his discretion and through delegation in the event of a 
limited war emergency. It was intended that the standby powers be 
sufficiently broad to permit whatever specific controls might be con-
sidered desirable. 
A general consensus developed that it would be difficult to 
argue against providing such standby authority for use if the need ever 
developed. Emphasis was placed on the understanding that a System com-
mittee would be expected to develop specific regulations and consider 
administrative and organizational arrangements for use in the event that 
broad standby credit controls were ever actually placed in effect. 
The recommendations in Governor Maisel1s memorandum were then 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that Governor Maisel would 
advise the Office of Emergency Planning accordingly. 
Several members of the staff withdrew from the meeting at this 
point. 
Officer salaries at Boston Bank (Items 4 and 5). Two officers 
of the Boston Reserve Bank, Vice President Turner and Assistant Vice 
President Dickson, had elected to retire as of July 31 and April 30, 

128 
1/13/67 
-10-
1967, respectively, because of serious heart conditions. For the 
interim period the directors of the Boston Bank proposed to designate 
those officers as special advisers. In the circumstances, the direc-
tors had made certain promotions and reassignments of existing officers 
and one new officer appointment, as indicated in a memorandum from the 
Division of Personnel Administration dated January 11, 1967. Board 
approval was requested for the salaries fixed by the directors for the 
respective officers. 
While extenuating circumstances were cited for the temporary 
retention of the two afflicted officers as special advisers at their 
current salary rates, some concern was expressed by members of the 
Board as to why the provisions of the Retirement System of the Federal 
Reserve Banks should not be such that immediate retirement could be 
effected in cases of this kind without inequitable consequences to the 
persons concerned. Mr. Johnson pointed out that a study of possible 
changes in the Retirement System to permit earlier retirement without 
full actuarial discount was currently in process and that the results 
of the study might suggest a solution to the problem referred to by the 
members of the Board. 
Unanimous approval then was given to the payment of salaries at 
the rates fixed by the directors of the Boston Bank for the several 
officers. Copies of the letters sent to the Boston Bank pursuant to 
this action are attached as Items 4 and 5, respectively. 

129 
1/13/67 
-10-
Examination of New York Bank. The report of the examination of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York made by the Board's examining staff 
as of May 13, 1966, had been circulated to the Board along with the usual 
supplemental memoranda. 
Mr. Smith summarized information disclosed through the examina-
tion, and it was agreed that there were no matters of such nature as to 
require Board action. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Sherman then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Appointment of Mr. Sidman. Thomas A. Sidman, Accountant Analyst 
in the Division of Examinations, was appointed Assistant Director of 
that Division effective January 16, 1967, with annual salary at the rate 
of $18,500. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston (copy attached as 
Item No. 6) approving the appointment of John T. Shookus as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached as 
Item No. 7) approving the appointment of Harvey K. Tibbs as assistant 
examiner. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Dorothy V. H. Ford as Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Process-
ing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,416, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 

I f l O 
1/13/67 
-11-
Appointments (continued) 
Mary J. T. Plummer as Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Process-
ing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,256, effective the date 
of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases, effective January 15, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Board Members' Offices 
Frances Lucile Griffin, Secretary 
$ 6,877 
$ 7,090 
Office of the Secretary 
Loretta D. Beale, Assistant Supervisor, 
7,253 
7,451 
Subject Files 
Legal 
Robert P. Forrestal, Senior Attorney 
12,873 
14,217 
Janet S. Hart, Senior Attorney 
15,629 
17,550 
Robert S. Plotkin, Senior Attorney 
16,675 
18,157 
Robert F. Sanders, Senior Attorney 
12,873 
14,217 
Bruce D. Shuter, Attorney 
9,536 
10,927 
J. William Via, Jr., Senior Attorney 
12,873 
14,217 
Research and Statistics 
Robert M. Fisher, Senior Economist 
20,585 
21,192 
Maureen E. Giordano, Secretary 
5,331 
5,507 
Adlyn E. McWhirter, Research Assistant 
6,664 
7,696 
Eleanor Jean Pratt, Economist 
9,221 
9,536 
Patricia Schoen, Secretary 
5,507 
5,867 
International Finance 
Fred B. Ruckdeschel, Economist 
9,221 
9,536 
Judy Ann Shaffer, Stenographer 
4,776 
4,936 
Bank Operations 
Diane Salisbury, Secretary 
Edwin G. White, Technical Assistant 
5,331 
11,685 
5,507 
12,064 

1 3 1 
1/13/67 
-10-
Salary increases, effective January 15, 1967 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
Examinations 
Ralph C. Maurer, Review Examiner 
Administrative Services 
Mary Jenkins, Cafeteria Helper 
Karen Brown Ludington, Mailing List Clerk 
and Flexowriter Operator 
Mary M. McDowell, Editorial Assistant 
Data Processing 
James D. Goetzinger, Senior Programmer 
Transfer 
From 
$14,217 
3,609 
4,269 
7,253 
11,306 
To 
$14,665 
3,731 
4,413 
7,451 
11,685 
Agnes L. Zahra, Statistical Clerk, Division of Data Processing, 
from budget position No. 19 to budget position No. 20 in the Financial 
Statistics Section, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate 
of $5,096, effective January 15, 1967. 
Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting 
of the Board on January 4, 1967, letters were 
sent under today's date to all foreign banking 
and foreign financing corporations operating 
under the provisions of sections 25 and 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act calling for reports 
of condition as of December 31, 1966. 
a a 
. 'A w _. 
Secretary J 

128 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 1 
OF THE: 
1/13/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHSNGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 13, 1967. 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 12, 1966, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for International Banking Corporation ("IBC") 
to purchase and hold all the shares of a banking corporation to be 
organized under the laws of the Kingdom of Morocco, tentatively to be 
known as "First National City Bank (Morocco)" ("Bank"), and to be lo-
cated in Casablanca, Morocco, In an amount up to approximately US$400,000 
(equivalent), provided such shares ara acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Bank by IBC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That IBC shall not hold any shares of stock in Bank if 
Bank at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold 
stock, or if Bank establishes any branch or agency or takes 
any action or undertakes any operation in Morocco or else-
where, in any manner, which at the time would not be per-
missible if Bank were a corporation organized under said 
Section 25(a); 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, IBC will ( 
cause Bank to permit examiners selected or auditors approved 
by the Board of Governors to examine Bank and to furnish the 
Board of Governors with such reports as it may require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Bank be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the same 
manner as if Bank were a corporation organized under Section 
25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

128 
International -Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
second paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
°n loans granted by Bank in Morocco in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, First National City Bank, and 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, will not cause 
the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guidelines 
established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
It is understood that the Board of Governors will be furnished 
with copies of the Articles of Association and By-Laws of Bank upon 
organization. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF 
THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/13/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1967. 
Chase International Investment Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of November 30, 1966, the Board of Governors modifies its letter 
of July 6, 1966, and grants consent for your Corporation ("CIIC") 
either directly or through CIIC's wholly-owned subsidiary, Arcturus 
Investment and Development, Limited ("Arcturus"), Montreal, Canada, 
to purchase and hold 23,750 shares of the capital stock of Corporacion 
Interamericana, S.A., Mexico, D, F., at a cost of approximately 
US$200,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given, in the event 
that CIIC 
should make the investment, with the same understanding as set forth 
in the second paragraph of the Board's letter of July 6, 1966, and 
with the further understanding that should Arcturus make the proposed 
investment no additional investment by CIIC in Arcturus would be re-
quired. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•^LRES^:.* 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
1/13/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1967 
Mr. Fred "W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
This refers to the request by Marine Midland Grace Trust 
Company of New York ("Marine"), submitted initially in November 
1960, for a ruling as to whether that bank could, under sec-
tion 4(c)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, acquire all 
of the stock of 250 Park Avenue Corporation, a corporation to be 
formed to acquire the leasehold of the entire building at 250 Park 
Avenue, New York City, in which Marinefs mid-town office has been 
located since 1944. By letter of December 22, 1960, the Board 
conditionally authorized the acquisition in question, subject to 
a determination by the Board as of December 31, 1965, whether 
Marine's use or occupancy at that date was "substantial" within 
the meaning of section 4(c)(1). 
By letters of January 25 and 
June 10, 1966, extensions of time were given for Marine's retention 
of the stock in 250 Park Avenue Corporation. 
The most recent such 
extension expired on October 1, 1966. 
As you know, the Bank Holding Company Act was amended by 
Public Law 89-485, effective July 1, 1966. Among the changes made 
in the Act was the repeal of section 6 which, while in effect, made 
unlawful certain transactions by bank subsidiaries of a bank hold-
ing company. Upon repeal of section 6, and the removal of its re-
strictions, there became available for use by Marine, as well as by 
other holding company banks similarly situated, a provision of the 
Act formerly foreclosed to it by the provisions of section 6, whereby 
the majority stock of a building premises corporation could be 
acquired and held. 
As discussed below, the availability of the pro-
vision mentioned - section 4(c)(5) of the Act (formerly sec-
tion 4(c)(4)) - in the Board's judgment permits Marine to retain 
the stock of 250 Park Avenue Corporation and makes it unnecessary 
to determine under section 4(c)(1), whether use or occupancy of the 
building by Marine is, in fact, "substantial". 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
SYSTEM 
128 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
-2-
Section 4(c)(5) exempts from the divestment provisions 
of section 4(a) "shares which are of the kinds and amounts eligible 
for investment by National banking associations under the provisions 
of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes". 
Although the identical 
provision was in the Act (section 4(c)(4)) prior to the 1966 amend-
ments thereto, the exemption provided thereby was not available to 
Marine by reason of another provision of the Act (section 6(a)(1)), 
which made it unlawful for a banking subsidiary of a bank holding 
company to invest any of its funds in the capital stock of "any 
other subsidiary of such bank holding company". 
Obviously, this 
investment prohibition was equally applicable to stock of a company 
that would become a co~subsidiary by reason of the proposed in-
vestment. While stock of the kinds exempted by section 4(c)(1) 
from the acquisition prohibitions and divestment requirements of 
section 4 was expressly exempted from section 6(a)(1), the invest-
ments permitted by section 4(c)(5) (formerly section 4(c)(4)) were 
not so exempted. 
However, as earlier stated, the repeal of section 6 of the 
Act has made available to Marine, in this connection, the exemption 
from the restrictions of section 4(a) that is provided by sec-
tion 4(c)(5). 
250 Park Avenue Corporation is a bank premises com-
pany, and national banks and member State banks are permitted under 
section 5136 of the Revised Statutes and section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act - subject to applicable provisions of sections 23A and 
24A of the Federal Reserve Act - to invest in the stock of such 
corporations for their own accounts. The Board finds that the shares 
of the Corporation involved in this inquiry "are of the kinds and 
amounts eligible for investment" by national banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing discussion, Marine should be 
advised that inasmuch as its investment in stock of 250 Park Avenue 
Corporation became permissible under section 4(c)(5) upon repeal of 
section 6, Marine's retention of that stock is authorized; and that 
in these circumstances, a determination under section 4(c)(1) is 
unnecessary and will not be the subject of fuuther consideration. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

137 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
1/13/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C D R R E B P O N DC NO C 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts, 
02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
The Board of Governors approves, effective February 1, 
1967, the payment of the following salaries, the rates fixed by your 
Board of Directors as reported in your letter of January 4, 1967: 
Name 
Title 
Annual 
Salary 
Charles E. Turner 
Special Adviser 
$20,500 
(for the period February 1, 1967, 
through July 31, 1967) 
Wallace Dickson 
Special Adviser 
19,000 
(for the period February 1, 1967, 
•through April 30, 1967) 
Daniel Aquilino 
Donald A. Pelletier 
Vice President 
18,500 
Assistant Cashier 
13,500 
In addition, the Board of Governors approves an increase 
from $15,000 to $15,500 in the annual salary of Assistant Cashier 
Richard H. Radford, effective January 1, 1967, as voted by your 
Board of Directors. 
The Board of Governors also approves the salary of Jared 
E. Hazelton, Banking Services Officer, at $15,000 effective 
February 1, 1967, if so fixed by action of the Board of Directors 
of your Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

1 3 8 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
1/13/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 17, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
Supplementing our letter of January 13, 1967, the 
Board of Governors approves, effective February 1, 1967, the 
payment of salary in the amount of $19,000 to Vice President 
Harry R. Mitiguy, the rate fixed by your Board of Directors 
as reported in your letter of January 4, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

139 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
1/13/67 
«• •«» 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 16, 1967 
Mr. Erwin D. Canham, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Canham: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
January 6, 1967, the Board of Governors approves the appointment of 
Mr. John T. Shookus as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, ef-
fective February 1, 1967, to succeed Mr. Robert V. Clapp. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Shookus 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, during 
the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in 
that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Shookus may, with the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the 
Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Shookus is fully informed of 
the importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Shookus execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

1 4 0 
vofgo;-.. 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
1/13/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1967 
Mr. John L # Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 9, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of Harvey K. Tibbs as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective 
today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
