MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 22, 1972 

487 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 22, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
V., U.-7 ; r. 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
CO; 
; 
. 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Qutoci 
• 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
o?t Ha ^h /lit 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
j 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
ig rj 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
rhi 
,--.!' 1 ; • 
Mr; Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
— > , • •, I 'il 
Mr. Wernick, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
^i'htV I n 1 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
. li?••>,•> A \ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
'^VCrr^ni 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
o : t • 
Miss Wolcott and Miss Key, Technical Assistants 
Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
American Trading Company, Brunswick, Georgia, to retain shares of 
^ate Bank of Kingsland, Kingsland, Georgia, and authorized the issuance 

488 
2/22/72 
-2-
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a s Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved (1) the application of Tennessee 
Galley Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to 
Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee; (2) the application of Commerce 
Union Bank to merge Broadway State Bank, an organizing State bank, also 
°f Nashville; and (3) the application of Broadway State Bank for member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. The Board also authorized the 
issuance of orders reflecting approval of the holding company and merger 
aPplications. Copies of the orders are attached as Items 2 and 3, and 
a copy of the letter approving the membership application is attached 
a s Item No. 4. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of state-
ment to be given by Chairman Burns before the Senate Banking, Housing, 
a n d Urban Affairs Committee on February 24, 1972. There was general 
agreement with the tone and content of the draft, although suggestions 
for certain revisions, mostly editorial in nature, were made. 
It was understood that the statement would be reviewed in light 
o f the comments made during today's discussion and that it would be 
Presented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
(Note: A copy 
o f the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 

4 
2/22/72 
-3-
The Board next discussed a draft of statement to be given by 
Governor Brimmer before the Joint Economic Committee on February 23, 1972. 
Several suggestions were made of ways in which to sharpen the focus of 
the testimony on the outlook for blacks in the present economy, and 
specific areas were mentioned as deserving of comment. Other remarks 
emphasized the desirability of limiting the scope of the testimony to 
that which would harmonize with statements of the Chairman and previous 
Board testimony. Still other suggestions were directed to precise lan-
guage changes aimed at clarification of certain points and amplification 
°f others. 
It was understood that the statement would be reviewed in light 
o f the comments made during today's discussion and that it would be 
Presented in a final form satisfactory to Governor Brimmer. 
(Note: A 
CoPy of the statement, as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Michigan National Corporation. Pending before the Board was 
the application of Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, Michigan, to 
become a bank holding company by acquiring directly shares in five 
Michigan banks and acquiring indirectly the interest now owned by The 
Michigan National Bank Profit Sharing Trust in seven other Michigan 
banks. At the meeting on February 14, 1972, members of the Board had 
e*pressed concern over the adequacy of plans of Michigan National Cor-
poration to improve the capital positions of its proposed subsidiaries, 
and the staff was instructed to relay to the corporation a request for an 

5 
2/22/72 
-2-
injection of an additional $30 million of capital to be raised through 
sale of equity in the holding company. In a memorandum dated February 17, 
l9?2, the Division of Supervision and Regulation outlined a counter 
Proposal for a capital improvement program now made by representatives 
o f Michigan National Corporation, which contemplated issuance of capital 
n°tes by the subsidiary banks totaling $12.5 million rather than the $30 
m iHion increase in equity capital requested by the Board. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement that the 
Punter proposal of Michigan National Corporation was an inadequate 
response to the Board's request for injection of additional equity capital, 
a n d would not achieve the Board's objective with respect to a satisfactory 
CaPital position. Note was taken of the relatively low capital ratios 
o t Michigan 
banks as compared with banks throughout the United States, 
a n d it: was the consensus that the Board should hold firm to its request 
an additional $30 million in equity. 
for £ 
Action on the application was deferred pending further staff 
discussion with representatives of Michigan National Corporation. 
American General Insurance Company. Preliminary consideration 
was given to the applications of American General Insurance Company and 
Te 
X a s Commerce Bancshares, Inc., both of Houston, Texas, to acquire shares 
of 
wo banks in Beaumont, Texas, as discussed in a memorandum from the Divi-
s "J 
n of Supervision and Regulation dated February 16, 1972. However, action 
^ferred pending resolution of certain questions relating to the 
stat 
U s of American General Insurance Company as a bank holding company. 

6 
2/22/72 
-2-
In a memorandum dated February 15, 1972, the Legal Division 
discussed the question whether American General Insurance Company would 
terminate its status as a holding company upon completion of a proposed 
conversion by American General of the voting shares it held of Texas 
Commerce Bancshares into nonvoting shares, which, while retained by 
American General, would remain nonvoting shares, but which could be 
converted to voting shares upon transfer to an unrelated transferee. 
The Division recommended that the Board adopt the position that comple-
,f'-'-*Qn of such a transaction would result in the termination of the status 
American General as a holding company, but apply certain conditions 
that would insure that the non-control relationship would then remain 
unchanged. 
Discussion developed the view on the part of the Board that only 
ky an exchange of voting shares of Texas Commerce for nonvoting shares 
that could not subsequently be converted to voting shares would American 
General effectively terminate its status as a bank holding company. As 
a n alternative, it was suggested that if American General would commit 
itself to terminate its ownership or control of shares of Texas Commerce 
^ancshares within a specified time, say, two years, a significant obstacle 
t° favorable consideration of applications for bank acquisitions would 
e removed. 
It was understood that the views of the Board would be communi-
Cated to American General; a copy of the letter subsequently sent is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

7 
2/22/72 
-2-
Colorado National Bankshares. In a memorandum dated February 15, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of 
the application of Colorado National Bankshares, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
tU;) ? ' 
• 
•<:•' ' 
. . . . 
to acquire shares of Boulevard National Bank, Denver, Colorado. The 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City concurred in this recommendation, 
vhile the Banking Markets Section recommended approval. 
After discussion, the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. It was understood that an order 
Electing the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
along with a dissenting statement. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN TRADING COMPANY 
Order Approving Retention of Bank 
American Trading Company, Brunswick, Georgia, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) to retainr'50.6 per cent of the 
Voting shares of State Bank of Kingsland, Kingsland, Georgia 
("Bank"), 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing 
comments and views has expired. The Board has considered the 
application and all comments received in the light of the factors 
s*t forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Prior to its acquisition of Bank, Applicant had been engaged 
selling excess capital stock of the American National Bank of 
B*unswick resulting from severance of that bank from the Citizens 
at*d Southern Holding Company. Bank, with deposits of $3.6 million 
^Presenting 0.05 per cent of deposits held by commercial banks in 
i/^TApril 5, 1971, Applicant without prior Board approval acquired 
fche shares of Bank which it has applied to retain. On June 22, 1971, 
the Board, in order to avoid impositions of undue hardship, ordered 
that any company which acquired a bank between December 31, 1970 
a*d j u n e 22, 1971, without first securing prior Board approval because 
o f lack of knowledge of that requirement might file for such approval 
bV August 31, 1971. Applicant apparently lacked knowledge of the 
requirements of the Act at the time it acquired the shares of Bank, 
and had filed a tentative application with the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Atlanta by August 31, 1971. 
f 
493 
Item No. 4 
2/22/72 

- 2 -
4 8 4 
Ge°rgia, is the fourth largest of eight commercial banks located in the 
Kingsland banking market which is approximated by Camden and north-
eastern Charlton Counties in Georgia and northern Nassau County in 
Pl°rida, and holds approximately 10.3 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in that market. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1971,) 
Inasmuch as the acquisition constituted a corporate 
Organization and reflected no expansion of corporate interests 
°r significant change in the character of the banking facilities 
Evolved, consummation of the transaction eliminated neither exist-
ing 
potential competition, nor does it appear that there have 
^en any adverse effects on any bank in the area.-^ 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects 
Applicant and Bank are regarded as satisfactory and consistent 
approval of the application in view of Applicant's commitment 
to 
of 
raise $200,000 in additional equity capital within sixty days 
aPproval of this application in order to significantly reduce 
(fclfii'/Sw. 
e debt which it incurred in order to purchase shares of Bank. 
Th 
e convenience and needs of the communities involved have been 
b e nefi c i a l l y a f f e c t e d b y t h e acquisition in that, with the aid 
^ 
Applicant is affiliated with American National Bank of Brunswick, 
^ Ur*swick, Georgia ("Brunswick Bank"). However Bank and Brunswick 
serve different markets, are separated by approximately forty 
s and by intervening banks, and are prohibited by restrictive 
Aching laws from establishing branches in each other's market area. 

-3-
495 
of Applicant1s affiliate, Brunswick Bank, Bank has instituted a 
mortgage lending program, modernized certain of its operations, 
secured a successor to its president who intends to retire 
^is year. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction was 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
°r the reasons summarized above. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of GovernorsFebruary 22, 1972. 
• . 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
'(SEAL) 
- r, 
^ t ° t i n 8 for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
n_ cheli? Daane, Briirmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
*nor Maisel. 

A 9 & 
Item No. 2 
2/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TENNESSEE VALLEY BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Tennessee Valley Bancorp, Inc., Nashville, Tennessee, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Elding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank 
holding company through acquisition of 100 per cent of the 
shares of the successor by merger to Commerce Union Bank, Nash-
Ville, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
The bank with which Bank will merge has no significance 
e*cept as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
tlle Proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization 
is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired. Pursuant to the Board's request for his views 
atlti recommendation, the Superintendent of Banks for the State of 
Tei*nessee responded that he had no objection to the application. The 
Bo 
a r d has considered the application and all comments received in the 
Xi8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
a n d ^nds that: 
Applicant is a newly organized corporation formed for the 
PurPose of becoming a bank holding company. Bank, with deposits of 
^362*9 million as of June 30, 1971, is the fourth largest bank in 
e Nashville banking market and the seventh largest bank in the State 
Tv 
lennessee. 

-2 
49? 
Inasmuch as the proposal constitutes a corporate reorganization 
ia ^fleets 
no expansion of corporate interests or significant change 
*n 
character of the banking facilities involved, consummation of the 
Pr°PoSal would eliminate neither existing nor potential competition; nor 
do 
6s it: appear that there i^ould be any adverse effects on any bank in the 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Applicant 
Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory and consistent with approval 
of t, 
n e application. The convenience and needs of the communities involved 
W , 
n o t be immediately affected by consummation of this proposal but 
^Proved services may be provided in the future under the more flexible 
Porate structure of the holding company. It is the Board's judgment 
hat the transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
8hoUld u 
Q b e approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
° n s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
t e the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
Ut 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
ext 
cended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Atl 
anta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of GovernorsFebruary 22, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
fitchell, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Haisel. 

498 
Item No. 
4 
2/22/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
-
COMMERCE UNION BANK 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, a member State 
o f the Federal Reserve System, has applied for the Board's approval 
Pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of that 
bank with Broadway State Bank, Nashville, Tennessee, under the charter and 
flam** of , 
°r the former. As an incident to the merger, the present offices of 
^erce Union Bank will continue as branches thereof. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in form 
PProved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested 
Sports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
th 
e Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The Board 
considered the application and all comments and reports received in 
li8ht 
sons 
*PPU 
thG 
th 
o f the factors set forth in the Act. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
summarized in the Board's Order of this date relating to the 
Cation of Tennessee Valley Bancorp, Inc. to become a bank holding 
Provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before 
^irtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
Co*Pany> 
an fchree months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 

tended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ February 22, 1972, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAl] 
^ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
tchelx, Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan, Absent and not voting: Governor 
^isel. 

s®gs coi'4. _ 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
500 
Item No. 4 
2/22/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R H E U P U N n E N l l E 
TCJ T H C 
H O A R D 
February 22, 1972 
Board of Directors 
^roadway State Bank 
Nashville, Tennessee 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Broadway State Bank, Nashville, 
Tennessee, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, sub-
ject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and 
condition of its assets and to its deposit liabilities 
and other corporate responsibilities. 
The Board has approved the application on the understanding 
that Broadway State Bank will not conduct a banking business with the 
Public prior to its merger with Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, 
Tennessee. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S OF T H E 
TEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
5YSTEM 
501 
Board of Directors 
-2-
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Reg 
ula t.ion II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with*especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a changc in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
he determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution should be transmitted to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

• •ARD 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/22/72 
A n u n F . s s 
n r n c i A i . 
c o R R t s p a u D t N C E 
-11 
T U T H E 
U U A R D 
• H r ^ K ' 
'.'woo Ji | 
February 25, 1972 
George F. Reed, Esq. 
vico. President and Counsel 
American General Insurance Company 
post Office Box 3247 
Houston, Texas 
77001 
r)ear Mr. Reed: 
This is in response to your letter to the Board of 
^ anuary 11, 1972, in which you outline proposed steps to be taken 
y American General directed towards terminating its status as a 
holding company. Your letter describes a proposed conversion 
^®erican General of the voting shares it holds of Texas Commerce 
'-ficshares into nonvoting shares which, while retained by American 
^•"leral, would remain nonvoting shares. Upon transfer to an unrelated 
transferee, these shares could be converted to voting shares. 
j. 
After consideration of the share exchange proposal, the 
°ard lias concluded that retention by American General of nonvoting . 
u,res of Texas Commerce which could be converted to voting shares 
y a transferee would not terminate American General's ability to 
Jn£luence the activities of Texas Commerce; rather, the ability to 
_ransfer control of more than 32 per cent of the shares of Texas 
°mmerce, which shares could be converted to voting shares, consti-
utes significant leverage through which American General could 
_ ert control or a controlling influence over the activities of 
G*as Commerce. 
Based upon the facts presented in relation to this matter, 
• Is the Board's judgment that, by exchanging the voting shares of 
^ 
a s Commerce for nonvoting shares which could not be converted 
voting shares, American General would adequately divest control of 
Commerce for the purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. If 
it<?r*-Can General makes such an exchange or commits itself to terminate 
AmS ° W u e r a h i P o r control of shares of Texas Commerce within two years, 
Gl-ican General would remove a significant obstacle to favorable 

George F. Reed, Esq. 
- 
2 
-
c°nsideratj on of x^roposals by these companies for bank acquisitions 
(including those now pending before the Board). However, such action 
w°uld not assure Board approval of any application. The Board would 
aPpreciate having notice of American General's intentions at the 
earliest possible time. 
If you have any questions, please feel free to contact 
Krs• Pauline Heller or Mr. Allen Raiken of the Board's Legal Division 
(Area Code 202, 737-4171). 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
. Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the. Board 
