Minutes for J u ly 15> 
1 9 6 8 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

«T> JF * 
/Ot) f o 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Sigel, Smith, Wernick, Weiner, Baker, Burns, 
Ettin, Fisher, Gehman, Kichline, Peret, 
Thompson, Trueblood, and Zeisel, and Mrs. 
Smelker of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Reynolds, Ghiardi, Irvine, Katz, Bryant, 
Gekker, Karcz, Kohn, Maroni, Roxon, and 
Smith of the Division of International 
Finance 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of international 
financial developments and domestic business and financial conditions 
of the kind customarily given in advance of meetings of the Federal 
Open Market Committee. The reports were based to some extent on 
materials that had been prepared for tomorrow's Committee meeting, 
and copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the 
Committee's files. 

£679 
7/15/68 
-2-
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill, 
Partee, Smith, Reynolds, and Thompson then withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Porter and Sanders of the Legal 
Division 
Bank credit cards and check credit plans (Item No. 1). Gover-
nor Brimmer recalled that when the Board granted permission to go 
ahead with the printing of the basic document reflecting the study of 
bank credit cards and check credit plans by a System task group, he 
had stated that he would take up with the Board later certain policy 
issues raised by the document. Those issues were set forth in his 
memorandum of July 5, 1968 (copy attached as Item No. 1). 
The document was essentially a research report, Governor 
Brimmer pointed out. However, its publication would focus attention 
on the policy issues, several of which were raised when he testified 
last November before the House Banking and Currency Committee. He 
went on to discuss the issues involved and the recommendations with 
respect thereto, as set forth in the July 5 memorandum. He suggested 

2680 
7/15/68 
-3-
that at the time the report was made public, letters be sent to the 
Chairmen of the Banking and Currency Committees transmitting copies 
of the report, expressing the view of the Board on whether legisla-
tion was needed, and outlining steps that were being taken adminis-
tratively. Mr. Molony would incorporate the substance of the recom-
mendations in the press release that would be issued when the report 
was made public. 
Governor Mitchell expressed agreement with the policy recom-
mendations. He felt that it would not be desirable to have any 
Federal legislation at this time, but he would advise the Congress 
that the Board intended to keep in touch with developments. He felt 
that the report needed some editorial attention, and he gathered 
that that was Governor Brimmer's intent; in particular, the section 
on banking structure seemed to him rather confusing. 
Governor Sherrill said that he considered the report a good 
job of fact-gathering. The conclusions were logical, and he supported 
the recommendations. He would emphasize as much as possible that the 
concerns expressed by the Congress were best dealt with by supervisory 
action. 
Other members of the Board also agreed with the conclusions 
drawn from the report and with Governor Brimmer's recommendations. 
Chairman Martin agreed with Governor Mitchell's view that the section 
on banking structure might be brought into sharper focus, and Governor 
Brimmer stated that further work would be done on that section. 

2 6 8 1 
7/15/68 
-4-
Legislation on bank subsidiaries. With a memorandum dated 
July 9, 1968, the Legal Division presented a draft bill that would 
Permit member banks to own, and operate through, subsidiary corpora-
tions. The proposal was fundamentally different from the "operations 
subsidiaries" legislative proposal that the Board had had under con-
sideration previously. The new legislative approach would enable 
banks to engage in a number of specifically enumerated "nonbanking" 
activities, as well as any other activity (with the single exception 
°f receipt of deposits) that the Comptroller of the Currency, with 
the concurrence of the Board, might consider to be "reasonably related 
to the business of banking." 
With a memorandum dated July 15, 1968, the Legal Division also 
submitted a draft bill that would add to the proposed legislation 
amendments to bring one-bank holding companies within the coverage of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. This draft had been prepared at the 
su8gestion of Governor Maisel. 
Mr. Hexter commented that perhaps the principal question 
before the Board this morning was the desirability of going as far 
a s the bill would go in permitting a broadening of the functions and 
geographical activities of banks. A related question was whether, 
if this step was to be taken, it should be accomplished more directly 
ky permitting national banks themselves to engage in various activi-
ties, on a national or regional basis, rather than only through sub-
sidiaries . 

* - j o 
7/15/68 
-5-
Governor Mitchell said that he thought the draft bill pointed 
in the correct policy direction. However, it raised some problems 
that would have to be disposed of by the Board. First, he thought 
that community development corporations should be identified with 
communities in which a bank had offices. He also subscribed to the 
principle that they should be wholly-owned subsidiaries except where 
they were community projects in which banks could have small interests. 
Mr. Hexter commented that when it came to participation in 
public service corporations, the difficulty of contriving definitions 
must be recognized. Almost any endeavor that provided a community 
with additional facilities could be regarded as having a public ser-
vice aspect. Thus, the notion of a community service corporation was 
ar* ambiguous one. For example, Citizens and Southern National Bank 
of Georgia intended to purchase, rehabilitate, and sell real estate 
in various cities in Georgia in which it operated. One could go even 
further than that under a broad concept of community development. 
Governor Brimmer said he thought Mr. Hexter had identified 
Properly the essence of what Citizens and Southern wanted to do. He 
described in somewhat more detail his understanding of the nature and 
Purpose of the contemplated activities, after which he noted that the 
bank proposed to invest $1 million in stock of the development corpo-
ration, in addition to which it would set aside another $10 million 
the purpose of making mortgage loans. He understood that banks 

O *» f /) 
7/15/68 
-6-
in Chicago wanted to do essentially the same thing, and that banks 
in Los Angeles were watching developments. His question was whether 
banks could proceed in this manner under the proposed legislation. 
Mr. Hexter noted that the present draft would prescribe no 
limits on the extent to which a national bank could invest its resources 
in stock of subsidiaries such as community development corporations. 
However, in the Legal Division's memorandum the question was raised 
whether, in order to make sure this was not a matter left entirely to 
the judgment of bank management, there should be in the law some limi-
tations, even though fairly generous, based perhaps on percentage of 
capitalization. This could be coupled with repeal or modification of 
the present exemption from the limitations of section 23A of the Federal 
Reserve Act. If such amendments were adopted, there would be in the 
statutes a limitation on the extent to which banks could risk funds 
a special purpose (community development) rather than to leave the 
natter entirely to the judgment of bank management and supervisory con-
trol. Mr. Hexter repeated that it might be quite difficult to define 
by statute the functions to which community development should be 
limited. 
Governor Mitchell then stated that he would not be hostile, in 
the case of mortgage companies or data processing, to permitting banks 
to have broader branching powers, geographically, than at present. On 
the other hand, he would not want to see community development corporations 

2 6 8 4 
7/15/68 
-7-
established outside their natural areas, which would be where the 
bank had offices. 
Governor Mitchell further stated that he thought the arrange-
ment involving the Comptroller proposed in the draft bill was about as 
good as could be worked out at the moment. If in fact the Board wanted 
to take some easing action on its own initiative, he would have no 
objection, but he would still be inclined to go ahead with a statute 
of the kind proposed. Such a step would reveal the Board's attitude 
and show how it would like to see the problem solved, even though 
temporarily the Board might make some changes by interpretation. 
Governor Maisel suggested that investments above a prescribed 
level could be left subject to regulatory approval. He then referred 
to the liquidity problem of banks and noted the effect on liquidity 
if they started tying up their capital in subsidiary corporations. 
Therefo re, there should be some restriction on investments in individ-
ual subsidiaries and on total investments. On the question of locale 
of operations, he took it that the draft legislation would also permit 
more out-of-State lending activities than simply mortgage company 
operations. This was a major problem that should be considered care-
fully, 
but he continued to feel that the Board should reinterpret its 
Position. 
On the matter of one-bank holding companies, Governor Maisel 
said he had requested inclusion of that feature in the draft legisla-
tion because of his feeling that something should be done about the 

2 6 8 5 
7/15/68 
-8-
present status of holding companies. It did not make sense to have 
a law on the books applicable to holding companies and at the same 
time say that any one bank could do anything it wanted. If the Board 
was going to ask for legislation, it should cover both aspects of the 
overall problem. 
Governor Maisel went on to discuss difficulties that had been 
encountered in putting together the pending staff report on one-bank 
hold ing companies and described the general picture that would be 
presented in the report. 
Governor Brimmer said the current staff proposal went somewhat 
beyond what he had had in mind when he argued for liberalizing the 
scope of banking activities to allow banks to do business more effi-
ciently. He thought it would be preferable to specify through regu-
lation the scope of permissible activities rather than to provide in 
the statute such broad powers that banks could do practically anything 
they wanted without reference to the regulatory authorities. He came 
out on balance feeling that it would be desirable to try to define 
those powers broadly in the statute and authorize the regulatory author-
ities to draft regulations before banks could implement the policies 
set out in the statute. He was not willing to support legislation 
that would give the banks carte blanche. When it came to the drafting 
of regulations, he shared the view that the Comptroller should have a 
major role, but he was concerned about turning over to the Comptroller 

7/15/68 
-9-
authority to draft regulations for State member banks, with the Board 
retaining the right only to concur. He did not think it would be 
wise to give up the role the Board now played in regulating the 
business of State member banks unless concurrence meant that the 
Board would share in the drafting of regulations. 
On the community development corporations, Governor Brimmer 
said he thought they were likely to be rather specialized instruments. 
Some further investigation should give a better idea as to what people 
intended to do with those corporations. 
Governor Brimmer also said that he was bothered by the notion 
that banks should be able to do business anywhere in the country. 
Having a place of business was quite different from trying to attract 
customers and provide services; he shared the staff view that banks 
should not have the power to accept deposits across State lines. Thus 
f a rj at least, the Congress had said that the right to branch should 
stop at the State line, and he was not prepared to break away from 
that concept at this point. A case could be made for mortgage com-
pany operations and similar services across State borders, but the 
question was where to stop. Because he did not know, he would stop 
short of recommending that banks be allowed to branch across State 
lines. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the Board should include one-bank 
holding companies in whatever legislation it recommended. A loophole 
existed that should be closed. 

2687 
7/15/68 
-10-
Th e Board should not reinterpret its position on subsidiaries 
but instead should try to obtain legislation, Governor Brimmer said. 
Difficulties would be encountered, but the Board would be in a better 
posture if it sought legislation. The banking community would have a 
clear indication of the Board's views through an announcement that 
the Board had sent proposed legislation to the Congress. 
Governor Sherrill said he shared Governor Brimmer's view that 
the scope of the proposed liberalization was greater than had been 
anticipated. There was a need to liberalize, but an approach that 
would grant such broad powers to the banks by statute might be too 
rapid, and he would favor the regulatory approach to liberalization. 
He was bothered by the scope of possible activities under the sug-
gested statute. The community development idea, as proposed by 
Citizens and Southern, seemed worth while, but by using the same 
legal authority banks could extend their activities into functions 
that were dangerous. Probably some parties would try to take advan-
tage of the situation. Therefore, he would prefer to define the 
extent of permissible activities through the regulatory process. 
Governor Sherrill agreed that there should be some definition 
of the character of community development and the extent to which 
investments would be allowed in that sort of activity. He would accept 
the view that subsidiaries should ordinarily be wholly owned and that 
there should be limitations on the amount of a bank's capital and 
surplus that could be invested. 

2688 
7/15/68 
-11-
On the question of locations, Governor Sherrill said he was 
not quite clear where matters stood at this point. It was a critical 
question, and he would like to spend more time thinking about it. He 
would like to collect more ideas, particularly the ideas of the Comp-
troller on the extent to which the Comptroller would have in mind 
expanding banks' powers. He would be opposed to permitting the 
receipt of deposits across State lines. As to lending activities, 
if one started with mortgage companies, there were some logical exten-
sions, but it was not clear just where the lines should be drawn. 
As to the question of ownership of subsidiaries, Governor 
Sherrill felt that some part of the present complications could be 
resolved by a reinterpretation that would allow ownership of certain 
types of companies. In that manner it should be possible to work in 
a more orderly fashion toward the legislative objective, which would 
be longer range. The one-bank holding company problem, which was 
developing rapidly, should be included in this general effort. 
Governor Robertson said that, like other Board members, he 
was interested in trying to deal with criticisms that had been made 
that the Federal Reserve was opposed to any change. He believed, 
however, that change should come about through legislation rather than 
administrative action. He agreed with the idea of seeking legislation 
on one-bank holding companies; he had been in favor of that for a long 
time. He also was in favor of allowing subsidiaries to carry on some 

2Gg9 
7/15/68 
-12-
of the functions of banks, and he would try to obtain legislation for 
that purpose. However, if the draft legislation now proposed were 
put forward, bankers would say that the Board knew such legislation 
could not be obtained and was just trying to create an image. Any 
legislation of such kind should be broadly drafted, with provision 
for the drafting of regulations to implement it. But he would propose 
an easier way of accomplishing most of what was necessary. Letters 
could be written to the Chairmen of the Banking and Currency Commit-
tees pointing out that section 5136 of the Revised Statutes limits 
the powers of national banks in certain respects and that section 9 
of the Federal Reserve Act makes those limitations applicable to State 
member banks. He would point out that the Board has responsibility, 
I 
a s confirmed by court decisions, to interpret the statute in its appli-
cation to State member banks. But he would then say that the Federal 
Reserve had not been able to come to the point where it could interpret 
the specific language of section 5136 to mean that banks can do through 
subsidiary corporations things that they cannot do directly; and that 
a s a result State member banks were at a competitive disadvantage. 
Consequently, the Congress should enact legislation immediately by 
adding to paragraph 20 of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act the 
words "as interpreted by the Comptroller of the Currency." Similar 
language could be inserted at the appropriate place to deal with the 
locations at which banks were permitted to do business. Thus, it would 

_ 2 3 9 0 
7/15/68 
-13-
be up to the Comptroller to interpret for both classes of banks, and 
the Congress would specifically authorize that arrangement, with 
knowledge of what actions the Comptroller had already taken. He felt 
that it would be a mistake to propose a statute of the kind drafted 
by the Legal Division without full explanation of what the Board was 
trying to do and why the effect of the legislation would not be harm-
ful. That would raise a great many issues. 
Chairman Martin said that he could agree personally with some 
part of what everyone had said. The goal, as he saw it, was to try 
to provide a reasonable degree of competitive equality between national 
and State member banks. He did not believe that legislation of the 
kind Governor Robertson had suggested could be obtained at this junc-
ture any more than the other legislation. The one-bank holding company 
matter was also vital. The Board should determine whether to move 
forward in that area; otherwise, a lot of people would be jumping the 
gun. 
Governor Mitchell said he thought all of the Board members 
would agree on the comment with respect to one-bank holding companies. 
If nothing else were done, he would favor sending the legislative 
language that had been proposed to the Congress with an urgent request 
for early consideration. Everyone would then be aware of the Board's 
Position. 
Governor Maisel then said that he would like to suggest a 
compromise on the matter of subsidiaries. He would not send a bill to 

M x t j 
* 
7/15/68 
-14-
the Congress at this point, but instead issue a statement reinter-
preting the law. At the same time, he would say that when the Congress 
came back it should pass legislation on one-bank holding companies, 
pointing out specifically why such legislation was vital at this 
juncture. He would also say that the Board proposed to ask the Con-
gress to give bank holding companies broader powers, but he would 
leave it up in the air as to what those powers would be. This would 
amount, then, to an official statement of the Board rather than the 
sending up of specific legislation, but a decision would have been 
made to ask for legislation on two specific points. It should be 
possible for the Board to agree on some specific legislative proposal 
by January. 
Mr. Cardon commented that he hoped the Board would consider 
the possibility of recommending some more limited form of one-bank 
holding company legislation than it had been recommending, with no 
success, for several years, if it was concerned really about the fact 
that large banks had figured out that the one-bank holding company 
Provided a way to get into nonbanking business. It would make sense 
to him to insert a grandfather clause. If the Board simply sent up 
an old amendment that had been rejected, it was quite apparent that 
the Congress would not act on it. 
Chairman Martin said that he thought perhaps Governor Maisel 
had suggested a good approach. The Board might try to compose a state-
m ent of its general position. His concern was with trying to find 

2 6 9 2 
7/15/68 
-15-
some way of resolving the fact that State member banks had been placed 
at a competitive disadvantage by virtue of administrative decisions of 
the Comptroller. It was an unfortunate situation, and he would not 
want to see the Federal Reserve blamed for the demise of the dual 
banking system. 
He was also concerned about the one-bank holding company, 
Chairman Martin said. Perhaps the Board should take some position 
publicly even if no legislation could be obtained. The Board might be 
better off making a statement at this juncture, looking toward legis-
lation in the future, than trying to write a bill the details of which 
could be argued endlessly. He would suggest, therefore, that the staff 
be asked to draw up a statement of position on both subsidiaries and 
one-bank holding companies, perhaps in the form of a letter to the 
Chairmen of the Banking and Currency Committees that could be released 
to the public. With such a draft before it, the Board could vote on 
the question of immediate expansion of the powers of State member 
banks through a change in interpretation of the existing law. 
It was agreed that such a procedure would be appropriate. 
Financial General Corporation (Item No. 2). There had been 
distributed a draft of reply to Chairman Patman of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee, who had requested the Board's views on a news-
Paper article regarding the plan of Financial General Corporation, 
Washington, D. C., for divesture of certain nonbanking interests in 
order to comply with section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act. 

7/15/68 
-16-
After d iscussion, during which the omission of one paragraph 
of the draft letter was agreed upon, unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to Chairman Patman in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Patman questionnaire. In letters dated July 9, 1968, to the 
members of the Board and the Reserve Bank Presidents, Chairman Patman 
of the House Banking and Currency Committee stated that the Domestic 
Finance Subcommittee planned to hold hearings later this year or 
early next year on H.R. 11, a bill having to do with the structure 
of the Federal Reserve System and the coordination of monetary, fiscal, 
and economic policy. He presented a number of questions pertaining 
co monetary policy guidel ines and open market operations, the structure 
of the System, and recent monetary developments. Answers were requested 
by September 1, 1968. 
It was the consensus that an effort should be made to meet the 
deadline cited by Chairman Patman, and it was noted that some of the 
questions could be dealt with by updating statements submitted at times 
in the past. Question was raised about preparing a single response for 
the System as a whole, and there was general agreement with proceeding 
along that line. The suggestion was made that those who might have 
reservations or dissenting views could submit supplemental statements. 
The Secretary stated that he understood the Reserve Bank 
Presidents were going to give consideration to the preparation of 
replies to the questions when they were in Washington tomorrow for the 

7/15/68 
-17-
meeting of the Open Market Committee. It was agreed that the Presi-
dents should be advised of the manner in which the Board intended to 
proceed, the thought being that staff of the Board and the Reserve 
Banks might be assigned to draft responses to the questions on behalf 
of the System, which drafts could be distributed for comment and 
determination whether anyone desired to submit supplemental statements. 
Salary guidelines (Item No. 3). In a letter dated February 16, 
1968, the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Build-
ing Plans requested the views of the Reserve Bank Presidents on several 
matters relating to officer salary administration. Those questions 
were discussed at the June 1968 meeting of the Presidents' Conference, 
and the Presidents' views were summarized in a letter to Governor 
Mitchell from Chairman Clay dated June 18, 1968. In a memorandum of 
July 10, 1968, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans presented certain recommendations that it proposed to 
discuss with representatives of the Presidents' Conference. A copy 
the memorandum is attached as Item No. 3. 
Governor Mitchell reviewed the contents of the memorandum, 
and it was agreed that the recommendations therein provided an appro-
priate basis for conferring with representatives of the Presidents' 
Conference. Governor Maisel suggested two minor modifications: first, 
that the minimum of the salary range for Senior Vice Presidents be 
set at $24,000 rather than $25,000; second, that provision be made for 

r T~» ^ 
<< O 
J 
7/15/68 
-18-
the assignment of the title of Senior Vice President to the managing 
officer of the Charlotte Branch in addition to the nine other major 
branches mentioned in the memorandum. There was agreement with these 
modifications. 
Accordingly, the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans was authorized to enter into discussion with representa-
tives of the Presidents' Conference on the basis of the recommendations 
contained in the memorandum. 
Officer salaries at New York (Item No. 4). In a memorandum 
dated July 11, 1968, the Division of Personnel Administration recom-
mended approval of salaries that had been fixed by the Board of Direc-
tors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York for a number of Bank 
officers, effective July 3, 1968. 
Chairman Martin noted that the New York Bank had again requested 
approval of officer salaries as of a date coincident with submission of 
the request to the Board, thus making it impossible for the Board to 
a ct except on a retroactive basis. At his suggestion it was under-
stood that Governor Mitchell would discuss with President Hayes the 
possibility of working out arrangements that would eliminate the prob-
lem in the future. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Testimony by Governor Brimmer. Governor Brimmer noted that 
he was to testify on July 17, 1968, before the House Banking and 

7/15/68 
-19-
Gurrency Committee with regard to H.R. 13884, a bill to prohibit 
Federally-insured banks from voting their own stock and to provide 
for cumulative voting in such banks. A statement was being drafted, 
he said, that would reiterate positions taken by the Board in the 
past. He would make copies of his proposed statement available and 
take into account any comments received. 
It was agreed that the procedure described by Governor Brimmer 
was appropriate and that the statement would be presented in a final 
form satisfactory to him. 
.T 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Tamzin H. Hadley as Design Specialist, Division of Data Process-
l n8, with basic annual salary at the rate of $7,447, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Juliann Perkins, Maid, Division of Personnel Administration, 
from $4,532 to $4,793 per annum, with a change in title to Nurse's 
Aide, effective July 15, 1968. 
Quincy W. Barnes, Bindery and Finish Worker, Division of Admin-
istrative Services, from $6,677 to $6,926 per annum, effective July 15 
1968. 
Theodore L. Jones, Power Collator Operator, Division of Adminis-
trative Services, from $6,074 to $6,323 per annum, effective July 15, 
1968. 

7/15/68 
-20-
_Meritorious salary increases, effective July 14, 1968 
Name and title 
Division 
Office of the Secretary 
Mary L. Scott, Senior Indexing and 
Reference Assistant 
Research and Statistics 
—— 
— 
Joseph S. Zeisel, Chief, National Income, 
Labor Force, and Trade Section 
Neva G. Van Peski, Economist 
Kerin D. Fenster, Research Assistant 
Jean C. King, Technical Editor 
Patricia A. Schoen, Secretary 
Phyllis H. Lockhart, Statistical Assistant 
Joy G. Hunter, Clerk-Typist 
International Finance 
————— 
Yves Maroni, Senior Economist 
Gloria U. Harper, Secretary 
Supervision and Regulation 
Phyllis Mulcahy, Clearing and Recording Clerk 
; "J'')') 
' 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Glenda Ann Beatty, Statistical Clerk 
Edgar M. McWhirter, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Administrative Services 
Leroy H. Cooley, Senior Teletype Operator 
Lois A. Chandler, Utility Clerk 
Mary E. Johnson, Chief Telephone Operator 
Lola Buckley, Telephone Operator 
William L. McCoy, Guard 
Basic annual salary 
From 
$ 6,957 
22,082 
11,843 
8,054 
9,399 
6,342 
6,681 
4,466 
20,856 
6,752 
6,123 
5,161 
11,911 
7,777 
6,123 
7,053 
6,323 
4,913 
To 
$ 7,162 
22,695 
12,225 
8,323 
9,668 
6,547 
6,867 
4,615 
21,469 
6,957 
6,309 
5,327 
12,233 
7,982 
6,309 
7,239 
6,489 
5,062 

7/15/68 
-21-
Meritorious salary increases (continued) 
_Name and title 
Division 
u r r i • 
Data Processing 
E. Katharine Blackburn, Senior Programmer 
Susan H. Reid, Senior Programmer 
Kenneth L. Best, Computer Librarian 
Katherine M. Colquette, Secretary 
Audrey L. Litman, Statistical Assistant 
Sara Jeanne Hannan, Clearing Clerk 
. 
Leave without pay 
< j '.: f. 
Adlyn E. McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary, for the 
Period July 1 through September 13, 1968. 
w 
.. ' _ J y 
Acceptance of resignation 
Frank P. Herigstad, Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division 
°f Federal Reserve Bank Operations, effective the close of business 
July 31, 1968. 
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Robert M. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics, to write an article on building construction for the 
1969 edition of The Compton Yearbook, published by the Encyclopaedia 
Britannica. 
On July 15, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 
the Director of the Division of Personnel 
^ministration 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
aPproving the appointment of Eugene A. Gallucci, 
Gerard R. Lister, and Allen F. Peterson as 
Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents. 
Basic annual salary 
From 
To 
$12,989 
$13,371 
12,225 
12,607 
7,184 
7,409 
6,957 
7,162 
5,937 
6,123 
4,913 
5,062 
Item No. 
5 

n Q 
7/15/68 
-22-
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Item No. 
Letter to Rhode Island Hospital Trust Company, 
6 
Providence, Rhode Island, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch at the 
U.S. Naval Base in Newport. 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter 
to Cambria Bank, Incorporated, Christiansburg, 
7 
Virginia, approving the establishment of a branch in 
Blacksburg. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter 
to Wood & Huston Bank, Marshall, Missouri, 
8 
waiving the requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Crocker-Citizens National Bank, San 
9 
Francisco, California, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch in 
London, England. 
Secretary 
\ 

TOr 
Board of Governors 
FROM: Governor Brimmer 
Item No. 
7/15/68 
Ks • 
July 5, 1968. 
SUBJECT: Bank Credit Cards and Check 
Credit Plans: A Federal Reserve 
System Report 
The study of bank credit cards and check credit plans has 
been completed by the System Task Group appointed in March 1967. As 
contemplated by the Board in the announcement of the study, the Task 
Group has carried out its assignment as follows: 
- It has assembled information on the nature of 
the various credit card and check credit plans 
currently in use by banks. 
tiisj v.; 
- It has assessed the implications of bank 
activities in this area for bank competition, 
bank supervision, and the banking structure. 
- It has compiled data on the amount of this type 
of credit in relation to the total volume of 
consumer credit. 
- It has evaluated the impact that further expansion 
of bank credit cards is likely to have on the 
financing of consumer expenditures by various 
grantors of consumer credit. 
The Task Group has collected a considerable amount of con-
fidential material, and this is presented in a separate appendix to 
the report. The main body of the report (submitted to the Board along 
with this memorandum) includes a summary of findings, detailed descrip-
tions and analysis, and supporting statistical materials. 
I recommend that the report (except for the confidential 
appendix) be published by the Federal Reserve Board, as contemplated 
when the study was announced. The Task Group has gone over the report 
carefully with publication in mind. However, if the Board decides to 
Publish the report as recommended, our own staff should review it and make 
ai*y desirable editorial changes prior to publication. 

. . . 
^ 
-2-
Al8o with publication in mind, the System's Research 
Advisory Committee and the Presidents1 Conference Committee on 
Research and Statistics have both reviewed the report, and both groups 
have approved it for public release. 
When I testified last November before the House Banking and 
Currency Committee on bank credit card legislation, I offered to share 
with the Committee the results of this study. At that time, several 
members of the Committee showed keen interest in having a report from 
the Board, along with recommendations for any legislation that the 
Board might conclude was desirable or a recommendation that no legisla-
tion is needed, if the Board should come to that conclusion. I 
indicated to the Committee that they might expect such a report "some-
time about mid-1968." Against this background, I also recommend that 
copies of the report be transmitted to the Chairman of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee. 
If the Board approves the publication of the report, it seems 
desirable to set a release date around the end of July. This would 
permit sending copies to the House Committee before Congress adjourns. 
I also recotranend that the report be published under the title, 
Bank Credit Cards and Check Credit Plans; A Federal Reserve System Report. 
A summary of major findings of the Task Group is attached to 
this memorandum. These findings cover most of the problems and issues 
that have been raised in the field of bank credit cards, including 
matters brought out in Congressional hearings. In the latter connection, 
the Task Group finds that no need exists at the present time for additional 

f 
\J 
-3-
Federal legislation in this area. I agree with this conclusion. None-
theless, the Board may find useful a brief statement of my own views 
on three legislative issues that were discussed extensively during 
my testimony before the House Banking and Currency Committee last 
November. 
Unsolicited mailing of bank credit cards. The principal 
consideration here is the possibility that credit cards so sent may fall 
into the wrong hands, be used for fraudulent purposes, and thereby cause 
loss to the banks and merchants as well as possible damage to the credit 
reputation of the intended recipient of the card. Another issue is the 
nuisance of such mailings to the consumer who does not want the card 
but who may feel obliged to dispose of it to be sure it is not misused. 
As brought out in paragraph 11 of the Task Group's list of findings, 
attached to this memorandum, newer entrants in the bank credit card 
field have profited from the experience of other banks. As a result, 
m a i U n g 
techniques have been substantially improved to enhance the 
prospect that the cards, in fact, will be delivered to the intended 
owners. The Task Group also points out the difficulty that new entrants 
Into the bank credit card field would encounter in generating the volume 
business necessary to make the program viable, were they prevented 
from using mass mailing methods. 
In my opinion, past abuses and difficulties have been largely 
°vercome, and risks associated with mass mailings are likely to be 
minimal in the future. I also believe the supervisory authorities 
Presently have the power and means to cope with problems that may arise. 
^evertheless, I recommend that the Board instruct all bank examiners to 

/U if H J 
U 
-4-
watch procedures in this aitea closely. In particular, I believe the 
Board should formalize this admonition to the extent that the banks 
are advised that the use of purchased or unscreened lists from outside 
organizations is not an acceptable means of launching a credit card 
program. Rather, initial mailing lists should be developed within the 
bank and from the bank's own records. 
2. Specific credit limits. The hearings last fall were also 
concerned with the question of whether consumers are advised of their 
credit limits under bank credit card and check-credit plans. The 
Task Group surveyed almost 800 banks and found that all but 20 reported 
specific credit limits attached to their plans. Yet, it is clear that 
some banks have not been advising the customer of his limit, except 
upon direct request. While there may be some business reasons for such 
an arrangement, it is my own view that specific credit limits should 
be established and that credit card customers should be told the extent 
°f their credit lines and should, moreover, be advised of any changes 
in their credit limits. 
I suggest that consideration be given to adding a question to 
the examination report that would determine whether customers are told 
their 
credit limits and if not, why not. This procedure should be 
adequate to meet this problem and eliminate the need for formal 
legislation. 
3. Fraudulent use of credit cards in interstate commerce. 
— — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — — 
This is a matter that came up during the testimony last fall, but it was 
not specifically a part of the bill on credit cards sponsored by Mr. Patman. 

<0 /L^l 
-5-
The theft of credit cards and their use across State lines may well 
present important legal problems. It is my understanding that credit 
card fraud cases involving the use of mail have presented no difficulties 
in prosecution under the Federal Hail Fraud statute. On the other hand, 
I understand that the National Stolen Property Act has proven of 
doubtful efficacy in dealing with credit card fraud. In a case two 
years ago under that statute, the Court concluded that " . . . It may 
well be that theft of credit cards and their transportation and 
fraudulent use in interstate commerce requires a prohibition. If so, 
it is a proper subject for Congressional consideration." 
Upon closer examination of this problem, however, it is clear 
that it does not fall within the jurisdiction of the bank supervisory 
authorities. Rather it appears to be a matter for consideration by the 
Department of Justice, and I suggest the Board take such a stand. I could 
then communicate 
this reaction to the members of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee who raised the issue in the first instance. 
As time goes on, it will be possible to shed additional light 
these and other problems discussed in the Task Group report. Evidence 
is already accumulating in examination reports concerning the financial 
aspects of credit card and check-credit plans and their impact on the 
Profit and loss statements for individual banks. Moreover, statistics 
°n the volume of credit outstanding under the plans have become a regular 
feature of the spring and fall Calls. Finally, figures on volume of 
credit extended, repaid, and outstanding--initiated at the suggestion 
°f the Task Group--are now being collected on a monthly basis by the 

270 
-b-
iKilt' 
Board's Consumer Credit Section. The first published summary of these 
data will be included with the Board's regular press release on con-
sumer credit some time this summer--after the publication of the Task 
Group's report. These monthly figures will enable us to assess the 
a >'; 
rate of growth of bank credit cards and check-credit plans, in absolute 
terms and in relation to other forms of consumer credit. 
on • 
Attachments. 

i 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 2 
7/15/68 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 16, 1968. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
°ear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your letter of June 22, 1968, enclosing a 
copy of a newspaper article in the Washington Post of the same date, 
on the subject of the plan of Financial General Corporation for the 
divestiture of certain nonbank interests, for the purpose of com-
pliance with section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and 
requesting our views on this matter. 
You will recall that Congress in 1967 amended the Internal 
Revenue Code to extend to Financial General and any other corporations 
brought under the Bank Holding Company Act by the 1966 amendments 
substantially the same kind of tax treatment, with respect to re-
quired divestitures, as was made available in 1956 to then-existing 
holding companies. Under these tax provisions, a "prior certification" 
and "final certification" by the Board are requisites to the contem-
plated tax relief. A "prior certification" has been issued with 
respect to the divestiture plan submitted by Financial General; a 
c°Py of this certification is enclosed. 
M 
You have asked whether this plan, while legal, would 
circumvent the objectives and intent of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct of 1956, as amended". It seems clear that it would not be 
contrary to the intent of the Congress, expressed repeatedly during 
consideration of the 1966 amendments to the Holding Company Act as 
well as the related amendments to the Internal Revenue Code enacted 
in 1967„ to make available to Financial General's stockholders a 
sPinoff free from immediate tax liability, such as had been provided 
in the 1956 legislation. For example, the report of the Ways and 
*feans Committee on H.R. 4765 (H. Rept. No. 99, 90th Cong., 4, 5(1967)) 
includes the following: 
"The distribution of 'prohibited property1 may 
be made either directly to the shareholders of the 
bank holding company or may be transferred to a wholly 

/U I ^ J 
< 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
"owned subsidiary created to receive the prohibited 
property1. In this latter event, the stock of the 
subsidiary must then be immediately distributed to the 
shareholders of the bank holding company for the distri-
bution to be free of tax." 
The choice of the latter route inevitably leads to at least 
one result described in your letter: the Financial General stock-
holders, who are the distributees under the plan, will have ownership 
(and legal control) of the new corporation, Financial Security. 
Control by the stockholders is, of course, different from control by 
the transferor corporation, Financial General. And steps have been 
taken, as contemplated by section 2(g) of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
to ensure that Financial General does not control Financial Security. 
But I gather that your question is not whether Congress 
authorized this kind of divestiture, but whether Congress should take 
further action to limit the ability of individuals to exercise control 
over banks and nonbank businesses through stock ownership. As you 
know, the Congress in 1956 and again in 1966 decided to differentiate 
between stock owned or controlled by a "company" and stock owned or 
controlled by an individual. The Board agreed with that decision, 
even though it involves drawing distinctions between corporate owner-
ship and individual ownership that appear to be formal and artificial 
at times. There are real differences, both as to duration and as to 
ability to raise funds, between these two types of control. 
A task force is currently studying, on behalf of the Board, 
the advisability of further amendments to the Act, and it seems likely 
that we will have some recommendations to strengthen it. At this 
time, however, we are not prepared to recommend extending the Act to 
cover individuals in the same manner as companies are now covered. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr.. 
Ericlo sure 

Item N o . 3 7 0 8 
7/15/68 
To: 
Board of Governors 
July 10, 1968 
From: Salary Committee 
The June 1968 meeting of the Presidents' Conference considered 
through its regular committee procedures several questions on officer 
salary administration placed before it by the Board's Committee on 
Organization, Compensation and Building Plans in a letter dated 
February 16, 1968. In that letter each Bank was asked to: 
1. Recommend appropriate salary ranges for its official 
officer groups. 
2. Comment on the relationship between the level of its 
official salaries and that of comparable positions in 
the community with particular reference to the problem 
of compaction in Bank official compensation. 
3. Comment on the rationale of its officer structure, 
including such matters as the number and rank of 
officers, appropriate titles, officer coverage by 
function, number of officer strata, rotation and 
training policies, and officer status for professional 
personnel. 
The comments from the Banks on these inquiries are set forth 
by President Clay accompanying his letter of June 18, 1968 (attached). 
President Clay summarizes the Presidents' views (these also reflect 
consultation with the directors) as follows: 
> i :• . 
' • ; r.Inc 
'z 
' j.» • fj 
oi' 

1. Revision of salary structure is long overdue. 
This assertion has only limited validity as is evident from 
the actual salaries paid relative to the head room in the ranges now 
in effect. 
(See attached Schedules (Exhibit I) showing current 
July 15, 1968 ranges and salaries in effect by office.) However, the 
Salary Committee agrees the ranges will need to be revised for 1969. 
2. Compaction should be confined to the Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents. 
The Salary Committee believes it may be desirable to have 
some compaction in the Senior Vice President level as well. 
3. The 40 per cent selectivity rule should be eliminated 
because (a) it does not take account of varying situa-
tions, (b) it is unsound in principle, (c) unworkable 
in practice, (d) dilutes authority and responsibility 
of directors, and (e) under it, transition to a new 
salary structure is impossible. 
Recommendations and Comments on Board Action 
The Salary Structure. 
The Committee recommends that the Board suggest to the 
Reserve Banks the following basic salary structure applicable to all 
Banks (with the probable exception of New York): 
Senior Vice Presidents - $25,000 - $37,500 
The number of such officers would be limited 
to the heads of nine major branches (Los Angeles, 

-3- 
27X0 
Detroit, Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Baltimore, Buffalo, 
Jacksonville, New Orleans and Seattle) and three 
additional officers at all banks except San 
Francisco (4), Chicago (5) and New York (6). 
Vice Presidents - $18,000 - $27,000 
Assistant Vice Presidents - $14,000 - $22,000 
The Committee does not recommend additional classes of 
officers mainly because the Leonard report found in its study of 
comparative community salaries that it was impractical to attempt 
to identify more than the three officer groups listed above.— 
II. The Forty Per Cent Rule. 
The Salary Committee believes the 40 per cent rule has 
significantly increased the compensation reward for better officers 
but has made the task of salary administration more difficult by 
_1/ Ranges Suggested by Federal Reserve Banks 
(Contained in President Clay's letter June 18, 1968) 
Banks 
Grade A 
Grade B 
Grade C 
Grade D 
#1 
24-34 
20-28 
16.5-23.5 
14-20 
#2 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
#3 
22-32 
18-27 
15-22.5 
13-18.5 
#4 
20-36 
17-29 
14-24 
' 12-20 
#5 
-
_ 
_ 
_ 
#6 
18-36.5 
15.2-25.7 
13-21 
None 
#7 
-36 
* 
* 
14-
#8 
25-37.5 
19-28.5 
14.5-21.5 
None 
#9 
-35 
* 
* 
13-
#10 
-37.5 
* 
* 
13-
#11 
25-40 
20-35 
16-28 
12-22 
#12 
_ 
_ 
_ 
_ 
*Not reported. 

frustrating automatic increases for every officer every year. The 
rule has been relaxed on several occasions for special circumstances 
and it would have to be relaxed to accommodate a structural or cost 
of living adjustment in 1969. The rule is very unpopular with the 
banks--more so than with the directors judging from the last several 
Chairmen's Conferences when it has been discussed. 
Under these circumstances the Salary Committee suggests 
that alternative guidelines be put before the Banks for comment, 
assuming, in each case, ranges would be revised in line with the 
Leonard Report, as above, and that all salary changes would be within 
such ranges. 
Alternative 1. Change the 40 per cent rule to a 50 
per cent rule and exempt structural and cost of living 
adjustments in 1969, and thereafter when needed, from 
its constraint. 
Alternative 2. Fix the aggregate of officers' salaries 
at a percentage of the aggregate employees' payroll. 
(See 
Exhibits XI and III.) 
Alternative 3. Limit the percentage increase in aggregate 
officers' salaries to the same percentage increase in 
average staff salaries as in the previous year. 
III. Board Review of Officer Salaries. 
The Salary Committee believes that the Board must assert 
again that its statutory responsibility with respect to officers' 
salaries cannot and should not be delegated to Bank personnel 
departments, Presidents or Boards of Directors. The Board must 

-5- 
«'»•}<«> 
> o t i-Aw 
guard against the appearance of the Banks as public institutions 
fixing their own officers1 salaries without any type of public 
review other than that by their Directors. The Reserve Bank Directors 
do not have the financial interest of ordinary corporate directors and 
many have only a very general knowledge of Reserve Bank operations. 
In addition, the private enterprise guidelines of productivity and 
profitability are not pertinent to Reserve Bank operations. The 
idea of a perfunctory or wholly delegated Board review of salary 
administration should be rejected. 
IV. Bank Officer Structure. 
President Clay's remaining comments relate to the official 
structure at Reserve Banks--he states that although these are diverse, 
the diversity has its roots in community and functional differences 
instead of happenstance and lack of deliberate attention. This matter 
needs to be looked into with some regard to the prevailing System 
pattern as for the most part the functions performed at Reserve Banks 
are identical and quality standards should not be disparate. 
The prospect of more freedom in salary administration sought 
by the Banks should only be available on the basis of satisfactory 
performance. The Quarterly Report provides some performance data 
but, by and large, evaluation of Bank performance has a large 
subjective element. 
It may be desirable for the Board to use consulting services 
and to expand its own Division of Operations to the point where the 
record of Bank performance can be set forth in more explicit terms. 
With high performance would go less salary supervision and vice versa. 

- 6 -
tf l o 
The Salary Coiranittee presents these alternatives seeking 
the Board's guidance before taking the next step of conferring with 
representatives of the Presidents' Conference. 
Appended are appendices related to the topics discussed. 

of coy'.. 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
271.4 
Item No. 4 
7/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 9 P Q N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 19, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. William F. Tr.eiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries 
to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York listed below for 
the period July 3 through December 31, 1968--with the exception of 
Mr. George C. Smith, whose new salary rate of $31,000 per annum is to 
become effective September 1, 1968, when he assumes his new position 
as General Auditor. The salary rates listed are those fixed by your 
Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of July 3, 1968. 
Name 
George C. Smith 
Richard G. Davis 
Karl L. Ege 
Martin French 
Leonard Lapidus 
Frederick C. Schadrack, Jr 
William M. Schultz 
John F. Allen 
James 0. Aston 
Armond J. Braiger 
Chester B. Feldberg 
John E. Flanagan 
Matthew J. Hoey 
James H. Oltman 
A. Marshall Puckett 
Ruth Ann Tyler 
Title 
Annual Salary 
General Auditor 
$31,000 
Adviser 
23,500 
Assistant Vice President 
24,500 
Assistant Vice President 
22,000 
Assistant Vice President 
24,500 
Assistant Vice President 
25,500 
Assistant Vice President 
23,500 
Manager 
15,000 
Manager 
17,000 
Manager 
17,500 
Asst. Counsel and Asst. 
Secretary 
19,000 
Asst. General Auditor 
19,000 
Manager 
19,000 
Manager 
20,000 
Manager 
22,000 
Manager 
18,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assi stant Secretary. 

BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
7/15/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 16, 1968 
Everett N. Case, 
federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Case: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
°f Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in your 
letter of July 3, 1968, for the appointment of Messrs. Eugene A. Gallucci, 
Gerard R. Lister and Allen F. Peterson as Alternate Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agents. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Messrs. 
Gallucci, Lister, and Peterson will be solely responsible to the Federal 
Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors for the proper performance of 
their duties, except that, during the absence or disability of the Federal 
Reserve Agent or a vacancy in that office, their responsibility will be to 
the Assistant Federal Reserve Agents and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of their duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agents, Messrs. Gallucci, Lister, and Peterson 
may> with the approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, 
Perform such work for the Bank as will not be inconsistent with their 
duties as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents. 
It will be appreciated if Messrs. Gallucci, Lister, "and Peterson 
a r e fully informed of the importance of their responsibilities as members 
the staff of the Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of 
independence from the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these 
tesponsibilities. 
Please have Messrs. Gallucci, Lister and Peterson execute the 
usual Oaths of Office which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors 
along with notification of the effective date of their appointments. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assi stant Secretary. 

m 
°716 
/W 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON 
30 PEARL STREET 
Item No. 6 
7/15/68 
Board of Directors 
Phode Island Hospitai. Trust Cftipany 
^ovldence, Rhode Island 
Gentlemen: 
July 15, 1968 
On behalf of tht> Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, acting under delegated autJ*o*i^y, this B*nk extends to February 9, 
the time within which Rta^de Island H^pitil Trurt Company, Providence, 
**»ode Island, may establish albranch at thelU.G. Kisv d Base, lewport, Rhode 
I«land. 
Very truly yours, 
/pef 
Luther H. Hoyle, Jr. 
Vice President 

& 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
R I C H M O N D 
COPY 
R I C H M O N D 
13, 
V I R G I N I A 
July 15, 1968. 
Item No. 7 
7/15/68 
Of Directorst 
Cambria lank. Incorporated, 
<*rlstlansburg, Virginia 24073. 
^•ntleaeni 
the federal Reserve Bank of Rlchaond, on behalf of and 
under authority delegated by the Board of Oovernora of the Federal 
Reserve System, hat approved the application of Cambria Bank, 
Incorporated, Chrlstiansburg, Virginia, to establish a branch In 
the Cables Shopping Center, South tain Street, Blacksburg, Vir-
ginia, providing the branch is established within six sionths frosi 
the date of thla letter. In reaching this decision, consideration 
h a § b««n given to the bank's capitalisation and managamsnt, the 
convenience and needs of the coawnlty, the competitive situation 
in the area and the future proapects of the branch. In this con* 
ft*ctlon it is understood that approval granted by the State Corpo-
ratlon Cn—lesion, Commonwealth of Virginia, Is conditioned upon 
the bank's prior closing of Its Belmont Branch, located at the 
Junction of gtate Route 114 and D. S. Route 460, Montgomery County, 
Virginia, and that first Virginia Banksharas Corporation, Arlington, 
**«ltala, has agreed to Increase capital funds of the bank by 
9100,000t which among other things, would have the effect of In* 
«*aaalag the bank's capital stack account to at least $130,000, the 
**nlMu« amount retired by the Revised Statutes for a member bank 
bead^uartarad la Christlansburg to establish a branch vlthln the 
corporate limits of Blacksburg* 
flaaaa advise us when a definite date for opening has been 
4*ter*ia*d and the exact title under which the branch will operate. 
Tours very truly, 
/S/ Robert P. Black 
Robert f. Black, 
first Vice Fresldant. 
? 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK O F ST. LOUIS 
P. O. BOX 442 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63166 
Item No. 8 
7/15/68 
July 15, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Vood & Huston Bank 
0. Box 40 
Harahall, Missouri 
Gentlemen; 
65340 
This will acknowledge a letjter^dated July 10, Wl68,> signed 
by ^resident John P. Huston, together with the accompanyinj^resolu-
tion, signifying your intention to withdraw from membership in the 
p«deral Reserve Syntcsn and requesting waiver bf the six months' 
notice of such withdrawal. 
\ 
/ 
J 
\ V 
/ 
We, of course, regret your decision. However, on behalf 
the Board of Governors ritaAing under delegated authority, this 
8*nk waives the requirement of\#ix month*' optica of withdrawal. 
Undar the provisions of S e c t i o n 1 0 { c Y ^ y t h e Board's Regulation 
your institution may accon^Hsh germination of membership at any 
within eight nionths from the date that notice of intention to 
withdraw from membership was given. Vpon surrender to this Federal 
*«serve Bank of the Federal Reserve s^ock Issued to your institution, 
*ueh stock will J>e canceled an* appropriate refund will be made there-
' 
/ 
X X 
> 
V 
/ 
Instructions in respect to effecting withdrawal of the bank 
from membership ardr detailed in letter addrossed to your president. 
Very truly yours, 
OOWjhx 
0. 0. Wyrlck 
Vice President 
C c : Mr. Holland, Secretary, Board of Governors, Washington, D. C 

2719 
F E D E R A L , R E S E R V E B A N K O P S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
" 
T1 R * 
S A N FRANCISCO. CALIFORNIA 
04120 
Item No. 9. 
7/15/68 
July 15, 1968 
Mr. A. Taapkon, Senior Vict President, 
Crocker~C it iaena National Bank, 
International Banking Department, 
1 Senaoue Street, 
•an Francisco, California 94120, 
Deer Mr. Taapkeni 
On behalf of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting 
this Bank has approved an exte 
the time within wtvieh-Cwker-Cit' 
establish a branch officeNLn Lond 
of Governors of the 
ler delegated authority, 
on to>fpril I, 1969, of 
s national Bank may 
England, 
This extension is krented in connection with 
the request contained in you? letter dsted July 10, 
Very truly yours, 
79l*ned) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice president. 
