MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
June 20, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
miftutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 Amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member 
Banks, and Regulation J, Collection of Checks 
and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. 

1587 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 20, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
a t 2:30 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
Executive Director 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate supporting staff 
Amendments to Regulations D and J. The Board considered mem-
°randa dated June 15 and 19, 1972, from the Task Force on Regulations 
D 
J, concerning the following proposed documents in connection with 

1588 
6/20/72 
-2-
Promulgation of changes in Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and 
Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks 
Press release. 
Federal Register documents promulgating amendments to 
Regulations D and J, and setting forth guidelines to 
the Reserve Banks for waiver of penalties on reserve 
deficiencies under certain circumstances. 
Letter to the Reserve Banks concerning establishment 
of Regional Check Processing Centers and other improved 
services to banks. 
Letter to the Reserve Banks concerning the use of the^ 
discount window in connection with changes in Regulation J. 
Memorandum concerning a renewed request by the Independent 
Bankers Association of America for a formal hearing and 
suggested response. 
Suggested letter from Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks 
to all banks in their districts covering Regulations D 
and J material. 
After discussion of several wording changes in the documents, 
t he Board unanimously denied the IBAA request for hearing, approved 
a d oPtion of the amendments, and authorized issuance of each of the 
a bove documents, with minor changes in form to be made by the staff. 
It: was decided not to hold a press conference on the grounds that 
t h e press release was sufficiently informative and the amendments were 
n o t of general news interest. 
The Board agreed that the letter to the 
IBAA should be sent on Wednesday, June 21; that the press package should 
b e released after 2:00 p.m. on June 21, for use June 22; and that the 

1589 
6/20/72 
-3-
staff should prepare a paper for publication in the Federal Reserve 
bulletin analyzing the impact of adoption of the proposals. 
Governor Robertson submitted a statement in explanation of 
his vote (copy attached as Item No. 1), and explained he would make 
reasons public only if directly questioned about them. 
(Note: Copies of the following documents are attached in 
f o r m issued: Letter to the I B M (Item No. 2); press release and 
the amendments to Regulations D and J, along with a notice regarding 
waiver of penalties for reserve deficiencies (Item No. 3); letter to 
the Reserve Banks regarding waiver of penalties (Item No. 4); letter 
to the Reserve Banks concerning RCPC's (Item No. 5); letter to the 
Reserve Banks concerning use of the discount window (Item No. 6); 
and suggested letter from Reserve Bank Presidents to banks in their 
districts covering Regulations D and J material (Item No. 7).) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1530 
Item No. 1 
6/20/72 
June 20, 1972 
Memorandum: 
For: 
File 
Subject: P^£osed_Amend-
Pr°ai: Governor Robertson 
m£«JL of_RaSllMtionS-^^--i 
The proposed amendment of Regulation J would re-
tire all banks served by the Federal Reserve check collec-
tion system - regardless of geographical location - to pay 
checks, drawn on them, in immediately available funds 
the same day the checks are presented for payment. 
This action is designed to speed up the check col-
Action process. Admittedly, it will be costly to some 
country banks that have had the benefit of "float", re-
citing from the fact that the accounts of their depositors 
have been charged on the day of receipt of a check but the 
bank has not remitted the amount thereof until the next 
And. admittedly, some cf these banks will be hurt much 
/ 
®o*e than others by this change in the rules of check col-
lection. 
Incidentally, it should be noted that the proposed 
^ndvaent will not necessarily assure that a depositor of 
* chock will be given credit by his bank any earlier than 

%?orandum for File: 
~ 2 " 
at Present, 
(Under Regulation J, the drawee bank will still 
until midnight of the day after receipt of the check in 
v?hich to refuse payment. That being the case, the sending 
batik - the bank in which the check is deposited - may be re-
^ctant to give its depositor credit, especially for a large 
iter*i, until the expiration of the day following presentation 
the check Co the drawee bank.) 
It is estimated that the amount of "float" which will 
b e eliminated from member banks by virtue of this quickened 
c°Uoction procedure will approximate $2 billion - which, 
to them, represents a $2 billion loss of investable funds. 
The proposed concurrent amendment of Regulation D 
restructure reserve requirements that apply to net 
ei*and deposits of member banks by instituting a system 
>ased on the amount of their deposits, regardless of their 
^'graphical location. This proposal would not only ac.com-
p"J-'J-fih r.lie purpose of making reserve requirements uniform 
*'°r banks of the same size, regardless of their location, 
° U t it would also release $1.5 billion more than enough re-
to offset the absorption of $2 billion of reserves 
^ U n g from the above-mentioned amendment of Regulation 
J, 

1532 
Sfel^raadum for File: 
- 3 -
There are features of both of these proposals that 
b°ther me. 1 regret that some banks will be benefited by 
t h e joint action and others will be hurt, but that can 
hardly be avoided. However, the plan for restructuring 
Reserve requirements now being adopted results in a wind-
f a U of approximately $20 million for each of the largest 
city banks in the nation - banks which suffer no loss what-
soever as a result of the speed up of the collection pro-
°ess« This is indeed a high price to pay for their approval. 
Ancl it is an unnecessary consequence. It could have been 
av°ideu either by (1) not reducing reserve requirements for 
0c^an(l deposits between $200 and $400 million (and liberal-
ising the phase-in provisions for those country banks in 
U l a t size that are most seriously hurt by the combination 
reguIations), or (2) increasing reserve requirements on 
de'«and deposits over some appropriate figure (for example. 
vi Million) to offset the reductions applicable to the first 
million of deposits. Finally, I might add that a time 
l(ra the economy is in the midst of an expansion verging 
°n a boom, with inflationary expectations high, is ari in-
'^opriate time to be releasing a huge amount of high-power 
~ even if they can later be sopped up by open mar-
^ °Perations. 

However, public benefits will result from (1) speed-
up the collection process, and (2) restructuring re-
serve requirements to eliminate disparities between banks 
0jC the same size in different geographical locations. 
These reforms are hard to bring about in any circumstance. 
Ilfince5 i believe the benefits here are sufficiently great 
as to outweigh - by a very small margin - the defects of 
the specific proposals. Consequently, 1 will refrain from 
dissenting and will vote to approve both amendments. 

''^spv;-. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
^
M 
or THE 
6/20/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
fito&te; 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
June 20, 1972 
1534 
Hansen, Hazen, Dordel.l & Bradt 
fourth and Cedar Streets 
saint Paul, Minnesota 55.101 
Attention: Mr. Horace R. Hansen 
Ge^tlemen; 
This is in response to your letter dated June 14, 1972, in 
v M e h you reiterate a request, on behalf of the Independent Bankers 
Association of America, for a formal hearing on proposed changes in 
the Board's Regulations D and J. You have asked that the Board 
Reconsider its decision to deny your request for formal hearing. 
You have contended that the Board, in refusing to grant 
your request for formal, hearing, has failed to accord the IBAA 
due process of law, as guaranteed by the Fifth Amendment to the United 
^tatea Constitution. Presumably, that means that the Board has 
i?,'iJod to give you sufficient notice and opportunity to be heard 
to adoption of the proposed rules in final form. On this 
K'lnt, a review of the record reflects that: 
(1) On March 2oy the Board announced the proposed 
changes in Regulations D and J and arranged to 
have sent to every hank in the nation that would 
be affected by the changes a copy of the text 
of the proposed rules and background material 
explaining their purpose. On April 1, the 
proposals were published in the Federal Register; 
the official notice set forth the text; and 
purpose of the proposals and called for submission 
'of written data, views or arguments by May 15 
(see 3? Federal Register 6695). 
(2) On April 17, key officials of the Board met 
with the President of the IBAA and other 
Association leaders to discuss the proposed 
changes in Regulations I) and J. Al that time, 
the Board's officials urged the Association 
leaders to present to the Board in writing the 
position of the IBAA ?.nd any information they 
might have on the effects of the proposals. 
(To this date, the Board has not received any 
such informalim. from the IBAA.) 

159 
4 Horace R. Hansen 
(3) On May 15. the period for submission of 
written comments on the proposals expired. 
(A) Nearly two weeks after the May 15 deadline, 
the Board received the IBM's letter dated 
May 27, 1972, in which it requested a formal 
hearing on the proposals. Notwithstanding 
the lateness of the request, the Board never-
theless gave it: careful consideration. On 
June 3, the Board denied the IBAA1s request 
for the reasons stated in the Board's letter of 
that date. At the same time, however, the 
Board and its staff emphasized their willingness 
to confer with IBAA representatives during the 
week of June 12. In view of the fact that 
your most recent letter arrived at the Board on 
Friday afternoon, June .16, we assume the IBAA 
decided not to exercise this option. 
The Board believes that the IBAA has been given full 
adequate notice of the proposals and an smple opportunity for 
of v.te\vs and suggested changes on them. The Board could 
n
Qv;i dona no more in the way or providing an opportunity to be heard. 
Cori-istent with sound administrative procedure and the Board's 
l*espori3ib ill ties to the public. 
You have contended that, although the Board has observed 
^fte rulemaking procedures sot forth in 5 U.S.C. 5 553(e) (i.e., 
of the proposed rules by publicati?n in the Federal Register, 
ari invitation to interested persons to subir.it: "written data, 
or arguments" on the proposals), the Board has failed to meet 
,Ue ^pqtiirevents of due process of law, Year router tion is tantamount 
a38firtin? that the rule-making procedures customarily and routinely 
by Federal administrative agencies are unconstitutional as 
^Plied jvi this case. The Board finds such a contention unacceptable. 
V f [Jr:lmaty purpose of the Administrative Procedure Act (including 
t 
§ 553(c)) war, to require Federal administrative agencies 
. c *ollow prccedurf« that would afford to all interested persons due 
PJ-ocd-g Cf. -|aw> You apparently believe that Congress failed ro 
* clvJ-«ve that objective, a belief the Board does not share. 

1538 
r' Horace 11. Hansen 
You have, also suggested that, in order to aid you in 
event you challenge the Board's action in court, you would 
J-Ike a formal hearing with a record upon which to base your court 
^•a .1.3enge. As the Board indicated in its letter of Tune 8, the Board 
5 s deceived and placed in the public record the views and suggestions 
A ^mdreds of bankers. Those letters (including, as your letter 
uJ C i c a t e 3» some from I B M members), together with the correspondence 
the Board and representatives of the IBAA and other relevant 
would comprise a record in the event of court challenge, 
you had supplied any information as to the effects of the proposals 
11 
members—as was urged by officials of the Board at the 
of April 17—that would also have been a part of the record.) 
i 
Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that the IBAA 
' ? keen accorded due process of law in this matter and that, upon 
^^orisideraticn, the Board's earlier denial of request for formal 
^vrxng should be affirmed. 
Verv t.ruly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 3 
6/20/72 
use in papers of 
June 21, 1972 
Thursday, June 22, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
QiltiOunced its unanimous approval of two regulatory changes designed to 
Vv 
ruetiire on a more equitable basis the reserve requirements, of 
tP&lT.bf • 
1 bauxs, end to modernize the nation's check collection system. 
The changes will go into effect in two steps in late 
^Ptei-iber m u l early October. They will: 
—Apply the same reserve requirements to member banks of 
like size, regardless of a bank's location (amending 
Regulation I), governing reserves of member banks). 
—Require all banks, also regardless of location, served 
by the Federal Reserve check collection system (virtually 
all of the nation's banks) to pay—in immediately 
collectible funds—for checks drawn on them, the same 
day the Federal Reserve presents the checks for payment 
(amending Regulation J, governing collection of checks 
and other iters by Federal Reserve Banks). 
The changes, while basically the same as the proposals pub-
J«had f o r puk'j.ie comment Larch 28, have been modified in detail and 
QUiod oi. application, in the light of comment received. These modi-
t i /•> .- . 
His include further revision'; of tha restructured reserve 
aftecting member banks' net demand deposits ranging, from 
1.0 m-M 1 • 
1J-~ilon to $100 million, and temporary waivers of penalties on 
0 .<•'. v.. , 
" ' v o ^-f.l.cieticies attributable to the new check collection, pro-
v> or to tha restructuring of; reserve requirements. 

1593 
In making the announcement the Board said: 
1'he Board received letters during the seven-week period 
for coiranent through May 15 from less than 5 per cent of the 
nation's .1.3,800 commercial banks, Although many banks 
suggested modifications in the original proposals-—chiefly 
minimize effects of the new check collection procedures 
upcm their funds available for loans and investments--most 
Oi them approved of the program fully or in principle. 
The correspondence the Board received, and the special 
Gfforfcs made by the Federal Reserve Banks during the comment 
period to assess Iho effects of the proposed changes, indicate 
that a number of banks, especially those not served by most 
federal Reserve offices and Federal Reserve Regional Check 
Processing Centers (RCPCs), would be adversely affected. 
The Board has given careful attention to situations 
vhere a bank's funds available for investment would be 
significantlv reduce:! by the new check collection procedures * 
The changes in the regulations, as now adopted, and the early 
activation of Svstem-wide RCPC arrangements, will substantially 
lessen the effects upon investable funds of member banks. 
Given the normal growth of deposits ? the^e provisions 
should make :U. possible for member banks to adapt without 
undue difficulty to the new check collection procedures, 
In this respect> it should be noted that the Board has 
formulated its new reserve requirements in such a way that 
the smaller the member bank, the more its reserve require-
ments are reduced, For example, member banks in the up to 
v4 million net: demand deposit category would experience a 
deduction ir< required reserves of 
per cent, while member 
knnks with net demand deposits of $400 million and up would 
aavo. their required reserves lowered by 9 per cent. 
The Board is seeking simultaneously to equalise compel:.i-
t1-ve conditions among banks—and further ease adjustment to 
new check collection procedures--by giving high priority 
attention to extending Federal Reserve F.CFC clearing services 
and equnliziug cuteif hours. 
VJithin the context of improving services the board's 
*>ost ltrn»edi?ice su\>l highest priority aim, is accelerating the 
^•v-velopmeat cf .^gioual Check Processing Centers. This will 
greatly assist the transition to the new conditions by 
large number of banUa~-*-naiw«eraber as well as member. By 
possibi.-.- earlier receipt of funds due to banks ds~ 
Pot-itiAj;. checks fox c.U-arsne*,, these facilities far overnight 

1533 
check gathering, processing and clearing will further offset 
earlier payment for checks required by the change in 
Regulation J. 
Regional Check Processing Centers located at Federal 
Reserve offices will serve areas as large as can be reached 
on nn overnight basis. Such expanded zones of overnight 
t-heck clearance are already in operation at Baltimore, Miami. 
Florida) Chicago, Kansas City, Omaha and Denver. Centers 
new locations will be established where needed to serve 
hanks that cannot be reached overnight from present Federal 
Kgserve offices. 
Hlfip i-
Tbe Board believes that the revisions of its regulations, 
cl5 adopted, will result in a mora efficient, wore competitive 
productive banking system, better able to take advantage 
'^- modern communications and accounting technology to serve 
'U-sineon <rad private depositors in a growing economy. 
Tho regulatory changes—and the method tc be used in imple-
*r'C> fchet»:—wi IJ r a suit in a net release of reserves of about $.1,5 
u : 
a total release of; about $3.5 billion from the restructuring 
w<-rv*s sncl the waiter of penalties., which will be partially 
* "a by the tinned lata $2 billion reduction .In float resulting from 
the C],., 
Regulation J. This float arises out of the present 
•e 
so-called "country banks" pay for checks presented by 
" " r a x Reserve in funds that are not: available for use until the 
'Us.iness day following presentment of the checks for payment. 
- nai. reduction In float wi 13 occur as transportation arrangements 
' ^Proved. 
it i 
Xhe net release of reserves will be. accomplished in two steps 
that Federal Renerve open market, operations will be 
u& needea, when the amendments go into effect, to neutralise 
^•mztB on monetary policy. 
- . 
Elfectn of the changes on the reserve positions of individual 
VJ-!-i vary and. there will be some transitional imbalances 

15 
dcsplto tfjr, modi.fications adopted by the Board. The Board expects thai' 
difJcount officers at the Reserve Banks will be responsive to requests 
any member banks temporarily in need of credit to tide them over a 
Priori of: adjustment to the new check collection basis. 
V, 
.jggJRgatruc turinp, (Regulation D) 
The Board's amendment restructuring reserve requirements on 
Afcraand deposits will modernize the system of reserves in the light 
0j tanking patterns that have evolved over the last 25 years. It will 
J^'Vide member banks of equal size with equal reserve requirements. 
Under the basic restructuring., reserve requirements on net 
deposits wi 1.3. be based on the amount of such deposits held by 
u ^hiber benk without regard to itr location. The restructuring will 
f.;VUi following ratios to all member banks: 
Amount o£ Ket P D e n o e i • ; : s 
Roa srve__Percftnt agf s Applicable 
First $2 rd 13ion or less 
3 pov cent 
Over $? Million, to $10 million 
10 per cent 
Over $10 million to $100 million 
12 per cent 
Over $j00 million to $400 r.lHion 
13 per cent 
Over $'+C0 million 
17-1/2 per cent 
These ratios will become effective in two steps just prior 
4,0 
period when there is a seasonal need for reserves in the banking, 
"yettcjj, Bej>ir:riinr? in the statement week of September 21 to September 27, 
f! 
ve :'irst three ratios— 8 \>cr- cent, 10 per cent ana 12 per cent— 

1601 
**ill apply to net demand deposits of $100 million and less, based on 
the average level of deposits held by the bank during the week ending 
September 13. This will coincide -1th the September 21 effective 
date for the Regulation J change. In addition, the 17-1/2 per cent 
c'ati0 that now applies to demand deposits between $100 million and 
million (for present Reserve City banks) will be reduced to 16-1/2 
Pe* cent as part of the first step. During the statement week from 
September 28 to October 4, this letter ratio will be reduced to 13 per 
cent based on the average level of deposits held by the bank during the 
ending September 20. 
At present, member banks are divided into two classes on a 
geographical basis for the purpose of computing reserve requirements 
demand deposits. The ratios for reserve city banks—typically the 
XarSp-r banks in the larger cities—are currently 17 per cent on the 
$5 million of demand deposits and 17-1/2 per cent on demand 
deP0sits exceeding $5 million. The reserve ratios for all other member 
-often called "country banks"—are currently 12-1/2 per cent on 
th« first $5 million of demand deposits and 13 per cent on demand de-
posits exceeding $5 million. 
' as originally proposed, a ratio of 13 per cent would have 
nW>lied to net demand deposits from $10 million to $400 million. The 
W d 
decided to include an additional category—a 12 per cent ratio 

-6-
-<et demand deposits between $10 million and $100 million—to help 
°fi3et the absorption of reserves through float reduction under the 
new c h e c k collection rules that will have a sharp impact on banks 
this size, 
This particular action will release $400 million in reserves, 
and of t h l 8 amount $250 million will go to country banks with net de~ 
aarid deposits of more than $10 million. 
One pare of the reserve restructuring will change the manner 
Vihic.h ''reserve city banks" are designated. Under the amendment, a 
b»nk u a reserve city bank automatically whenever the average of its 
dQ:\iand deposits for the reserve period, rises above $400 million. 
In authorizing the Federal Reserve Banks to grant temporary 
Waivers of penalties on certain deficiencies in reserves attributable 
t:° the changes in Regulations D and .7, the Board set the following 
S^idd it.es: 
— A waiver will be granted initially only for penalties on 
Reserve deficiencies equal to a reduction in available funds that ex~ 
twe per cent: of a member bank's net demand deposits. 
— T h e amount of deficiency eligible for waiver of penalties 
decrease one per cent of net demand deposits for each quarter 
January 1, 1973. 
— M o n u t n o waivers will be granted under this authority 
June 3C, 1974. 

1603 
i 
(Regulation J) 
The Board adopted the proposals it made in March for revising 
Regulation J, covering collection of checks by the Federal Reserve 
Systea* Af; the same time, it took steps to attenuate and mitigate the 
%>act on affected banks of faster check collection. 
Commercial banks that are members of the Federal Reserve 
System send to the Federal Reserve for collection checks deposited by 
t^eir customers that are drawn for the most part on banks outside their 
iocal clearing systems. The Federal Reserve presents the checks, for 
c°Uection, to the banks against which they are drawn, Nomnettber banks 
us& Federal Reserve collection facilities by sending their checks to 
l h e Federal Reserve through a member bank. The Federal Reserve credits 
tl»* reserve account of member hanks which send checks to it for collection. 
Reserve Bank recovers the amounts ic has credited when it collects 
banks whose customers wrote the checks. 
The revised check collection regulation requires all banks 
t o Pay for their checks the same day the Federal Reserve presents them 
payment, and to make the payment in funds that are available to 
t h G Federal Reserve that day, i.e., to pay in immediately available funds. 
X n so case, how eve/., would a bank be expected to pay lor its checks prior 
V:° receipt of its cash letter from the Reserve F-ank. t-ior would the right 
o f a bank to retura any check on the following day be affected. 
Nearly all banks in the 12 cities where the Federal Reserve 
are located, at* the 25 cities with other Fedcial Reserve offices 

- 8 -
1604 
been on such an immediate payment basis, Payment for checks by 
,a*-<H>. banks and their customers, are not affected by the new check 
Cfj ^ 1 
« 
' 
procedures. They will, of course, benefit from earlier 
£ (i A j 
• 5 5 : 0 b a n k s whose earlier payment is passed on by the Federal 
erv<?.. 
In recent months, in furtherance of Federal Reserve policy 
' 
at. modernizing the nation's payments mechanism, the Federal 
^-SCir-n v 
^ank.y have begun establishing Regional Cheer. Processing Centers 
">} u> serve expanded r.ones of immediate payment" around, as well 
* » 
cities. Banks and their customers in these zones also have 
^ ft Si t 
c,a an immediate payments basis and their payment practices are thus 
not , « 
•lleered by the new check collection procedures. 
The bemks that may be adversely affected most by- the revised 
^•Uectioa procedure ace those outside cities with Federal Reserve 
" U G a » end outside the immediate payment areas served by the KC'PCs. 
» which will go on an immediate payment basis> generate some 
15 w 
r 
* ** ,(?nt of the dollar volume of all checks, and about half of the 
ml 
. , 
•—Jon checks currently written in the United States each business 
S . VJ1 tether or not they are adversely affected depends upon the off-
amount of earlier credits they will receive and reduction of 
'cWjr ... 
'•'•-V-iircid reset ^es, 
These "country" hanks had previously paid for checks presented 
In 
in funds collectible, one day or more after presentation. This 
to 
rooted in times of slower communications—made available to 
t.*ir &stvestft«nt an average of approximately $2 billion » day 

1605 
*n funds thai; were in the process of collection through the Federal 
Reserve. This $2 billion ''float" will be eliminated under the new 
s d a y - p a y m e n t check collection procedure. 
The new check collection rules thus place all banks-city 
countryj member and nonmember-on the sai?e footing as regards check 
c°Hccr.ton by the Federal Reserve, A number of the member "country" 
b<mUS not now paying in immediately available funds are medium to large 
located in the many sizable cities that do not have Federal Re-
serve offices and in suburban areas around Federal Reserve cities. 
In making immediate rather than deferred payment for their 
checkc, banks not; already on an immediate payment basis could—in the 
absence of offsetting action by the Board—lose investable funds. The 
^ r a ' s action will provide newly investable funds resulting from the 
lower reserves the new reserve schedule permits. And trie effect or 
to pay the Federal Reserve for their checks earlier, will be 
set by earlier credit iron the Federal Reserve on checks written in 
favor. Where earlier credit is given for checks due to either 
Member or nonmembsr banks operating through a correspondent bank, the 
Pc-deral Reserve anticipates that correspondent banks will pass the 
earlier credit back to the banks they represent. 
Despite these offsets, some banks will nevertheless still 
h*Ve to give up funds previously available to them in the form of 
To attenuate and inflate the effect of this reduction of 
trb'e Hoard has authorized the Reserve Bank*, to waive penalties 
r-.. 
nf "o to 
months. 
n certain deficiencies in reserves Lot Or^x^a. or -v 
<1 
£ 

1606 
•10" 
7be amount or funds on which penalties initially w i H be 
halvedi after the new check collection procedure goes into effect, 
W . 1 depend upon the amount of net loss of funds a bank experiences. 
The net loss of reserves will be (1) the reserve reduction due to 
"Wdiate rather than deferred payment for checks that (2) is not 
by the Board's new reserve requirement structure or (3) by 
^ i p t of earlier credit under the new check collection rules. In 
faw cases where a bank experiences an increase in reserve require-
the increase may be added to calculate the total .loss of re-
^vvgb, The amount will be figured as a per cent of the bank's net 
^nanii deposits. 
Where a bank's net reduction of funds is less than 2 per 
Cefet c t U. s ne.t demand deposits, no waiver of penalties vi)l be granted. 
B a l t i c s will be waived on reserve deficiencies in excess of 2 por 
of net demand deposits through the remainder of this year. There-
Rfter> the waiver of penalties will be reduced at the beginning of each 
barter on an amount equal to 1 per cent of the bank's net demand de» 
up to a maximum of. six quarters. 
Attached are copies of the regulatory amendments and order 
Elating to waiver of penalties. 

1607 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER. A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Computation and Requirements 
On March 28, 1972, the Board of Governors announced that it 
Va® considering adopting a system of. reserve requirements against the 
deposits of all member banks based on the amount of such deposits 
by a member bank. 
(See 37 Federal Register 6694.) Under the pro-
reserve percentages would be based on a member bank's deposits 
ws*hout regard to the location of the. bank. The Board has decided to 
the proposal, with certain modifications. 
Some modifications are 
S i g n e d to phase in gradually the reserve requirement structure proposed 
March 28; m this connection, the amendments to Regulation D 
U a v° various deferred effective dates. The purpose of phasing in the new 
re*etve structure is to avoid an unduly large release of reserves at any 
point in time. Another modification is designed to cause a re-
from 13 per cent (as proposed earlier) to 12 per cent in the 
percentage that is applicable to the portion of a member bank's 
n°t ^.tmd deposits in excess of $10 million but less than $100 million. 
To implement its proposal, the Board has amended Regulation D 
(1? 
• 9?R 204) in the following respects: 

. 1603 
1. Effective September 21, ^972, sections 204.51 through 
^ . 5 7 are revoked, 
2. Effective September 21, 1972 , sections 204s2(a)'(2) and (3) 
^.amended to read as follows: 
•VjM«^ Computation of reserves. 
Vv- * vV 
(2) A member bank in a reserve city is deemed to have a 
cllVacter of business similar to banks outside of reserve cities when-
(iV(ir it has average net demand deposit balances of $400 million or loss 
f o r the second computation period preceding the current reserve main-
t(^ance period. The Board grants permission to any such bank or banks 
t o Maintain for the current period the reserve balances that are. in 
^ c t for member banks not located in reserve cities. Such permission 
arul any other permission granted by the Board to maintain reduced re-
8erves u automatically suspended for the current reserve maintenance 
Period with respect to any member bank in a reserve city that has average 
demand deposit balances of more than $400 million for the second 
^putation period preceding the current reserve maintenance period. 
A n y ««ch bank shall maintain for the current period the reserve balances 
3"n effect for banks located in reserve cities. 
(3) For the purposes of this Part, each city having a Federal 
office is a reserve city. In addition, any city, town, village 
°'f 0thftr community, wbetnci or not incorporated, is a reserve city for 

1699 
-3~ 
a J-fi3erve computation period if it contains a head office of any member 
°ank that had average daily net demand deposit balances of more than 
million for the second computation period preceding the current 
^oorve maintenance period. 
3' Effective during the period from September 21 to September 27, 
sections 204.5(a)(1)(iii) and (2)(iii) are amended to read as 
f°U0v>S; 
§ 2 C'u 
rv 
Reserve requirements. 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of sec-
ti'°n 
of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to para-
Scaph (o.) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
jjv, 
hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that each memoer 
o f the- Federal Reserve System is required to maintain on deposit with 
6 Federal Reserve Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city--
* * * 
(iii) (a) 0 per cent of its net demand deposits if its 
^fi.tegate net demand deposits arc .$2 million or less, (b) $1.60,000 plus 
If) 
cent of its net demand deposits in excess of $2 million if its 
*ccgate net demand deposits are. in excess of $2 million but less than 
vl 0 
^ InHlion, (c) $900,000 plus 12 per cent of its net demand deposits in 
of $10 million if its aggregate net demand deposits are in excess 
Of A 
v U ) million but less than $100 million, or (d) $11,760,000 plus 13 per 

1(610 
C o n t Of its net demand deposits in excess of $100 million, except that 
Xu fche case of a bank that was considered located in a reserve city 
I C r to September 21, 1972, the reserve percentage shall be 16-1/2 per 
'ent of its net demand deposits in excess of $100 million. 
(2) If iu a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
$ U c b * city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
l°scrv0 System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
ap^£fie.d i n subparagraph (1) of this paragraph)-« 
vV ->v 
(iii) $61,260,000 plus 17-1/2 per cent of its net demand 
cP°«it» iri excess of $400 million, 
4-« Effective September 28, 1972, sections 204,5(a)(1)(iii) 
unu.t.) a re amended to read as follows: 
§ 204 c 
n 
requ_irements» 
(a) Reserve percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of 
bt-c-tion 19 of the Federal Reserve Act: and § 204.2(a) and subject to 
t) 
^••agtaph (c) of this section, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
k p v 
' 
V e System hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that 
member bank of the Federal Reserve System is required to maintain 
°U il 
GPosit with the Federal Reserve Bank of its district; 
(1) If not in a reserve city— 
•V vV '.'t 
(iii) (a) 8 per cent of its net demand deposits if its 
riel demand deposits are $2 million or less, (b) $160,000 plus 

3(5 Pfcr cent of its net demand deposits in excess of $2 million if its 
l e g a t e net demand deposits are in excess of $2 million but less than 
million, (c) $960}000 plus 12 per cent of its net demand deposits in 
*Xce3a of $1.0 million if its aggregate net demand deposits are in excess 
0 1 
million but less than $100 million, or (d) $11,760,000 plus 13 per 
-'-'at ,Tr 
n e t (jeraan(1 deposits in excess of $100 million. 
(/) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located in 
3Uch «*city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the reserves 
fif;d i n 8 ub p a r Cg r aph (l) of this paragraph)--' 
•'< %'( it 
(Hi) $50,760,000 plus 17-1/2 per cent of its net detmmd 
GpC3U:s LU excess of $400 million. 
(12 ll.S.C. 248(i) and 461.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 20, 1972, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 
fs&AM 

1612 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II —FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. J] 
PART 210".-COLLECTION OF CHECKS AND OTHER ITEMS BY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Payment of Cash Items Upon Presentment 
On March 28, 1972, the Board of Governors proposed to amend 
tts Relation J to require banks—member and nonmember—to pay cash 
*'tGme on the day of presentment in funds available to the Reserve 
Bai* on that day. (See 37 Federal Register 6695 J 
For the reasons 
^•icato.d in that earlier announcement, the Board has decided to 
the proposal„ 
To aid in the implementation of the proposal, the Board has 
G'Iso decided to amend its Regulation J to provide that if a Federal 
Res&rve Bank does not receive payment for a cash item in the manner 
S c r i b e d by Regulation J, the amount of the item may be charged back 
to tho. sender of the item. 
Effective Sep_^ber_21, 1972, t h« Board has amended its 
^ U t i o i i J an follows: 
1. Section 210.9(a) is amended to read: 
* 
Rernl11ance and PAV^iI}!• 
(a) (1) C£3hJ.JtCMii, A paying bank becomes accountable for 
Ch° amount of: each cash item received by it from or through a Federal 
^ - r v e Bank at the close of the paying bank's banking day on which 

1613 
the cash it;cm was so received'7 if it retains such item after the close 
°f SUch banking day, unless, prior to such time, it pays or remits for 
tllG item as herein provided. Payment or remittance therefor shall be 
eff«*.tcd on such day of receipt by: 
(i) debit to an account on the books of a Federal Reserve 
or 
(ii) payment in cash; or 
(iii) in the discretion of the Federal Reserve Bank, any other 
°riri of payment or remittance: 
that the proceeds of any such payment or remittance in any 
herein stated shall be available to the Federal Reserve Bank not 
than the close oX the banking day lor such Federal Reserve Bank 
°n 
day on which such item was so received by the paying bank. If 
Uls banking day on. which an item is received by a paying bank is not 
* ^ k i n g day for the Federal Reserve Bank from which the item was 
^ i v e d , any payment or remittance made hereunder shall be effected 
banking day of both such Federal Reserve Bank and such paying 
I> 
b 
next following the day of receipt of such item. 
^ 
A ^ r i r c T T e c T i ^ d " Vy a paying bank shall be deemed to have been 
^ v e d by the bank on its next banking day if the item is received 
t T ° n e of the following circumstances: 
(1) on a day other than a 
r n ki«g dry for it or (2) on a banking day for it, out u ) a tei L 
banking 
or <b> after a "cut-off hour" - t a b 
shed by xt 
" ^ o r d a n c e with applicable State law, or (e) during afternoon or 
periods when It is open for limited funcr. ous (>!• - -- -

1614 
I 
" 
. 
(v) Noncashitem, A federal Reserve Bank way require the 
P^lng bank or collecting bank to which it has presented, sent, or 
^warded any noncash item pursuant to § 2X0,7 to pay or remit for 
'"Uch i t m in cash, but is authorized, in its discretion, to permit 
SUch paying bank or collecting bank to authorize or cause payment or 
Pittance therefor to be made by a debit to an account 'on the books 
r,uch Federal Reserve Bank or to pay or remit therefor in any of the 
£ol*owing which is in a form acceptable to such Federal Reserve Bank: 
B a n k draft, transfer of funds or bank credit, or any other form of 
or remittance author!r,-: i,y applicable State law, 
(3) Nonhank payor . A Federal Reserve Bank may require the 
payor to which it has presented any cash item or noncash item 
^rsu^nt l:o g 210 J co pay therefor in cash, but is authorized, In its 
ret.Ion, to permit such nonbank payor to pay therefor in any of the 
,f°UoWiug vjhich is in a form acceptable to such Federal Reserve Bank; 
p , 
iter's check, certified check, or other bank draft or obligation. 
2. Section 210.12(a) is amended t.o read; 
§ 
AU.12 Return of Cash items. 
(a) A paying bank that receives a cash item from or through 
* Pedero]i Reserve Bank, otherwise than for immediate payment over 
Ui0 hunter, and that pays or remits for ouch item a a provided in 
C fi 
l> <)i0^(a) of this Part shall have the right to recover any payment 
07' Pittance GO made if, before it has finally paid the item, it 

1615 
refcurriS the it-am before midnight of its banking day next following 
th° banking day of receipt or takes such other action to recover such 
%tnent or remittance within such time and by such means as may be 
Inr°vided by applicable State law: Provided, that the foregoing pro-
Visiong shall not extend, nor shall the time herein provided for 
^tri be extended by, the time for return of unpaid items fixed by 
Ch 
and practices of any clearing house through which the item 
Vjf c> 
. 
Presented or fixed by the provisions of any special collection 
eement pursuant to which it was presented. 
3. Section 210,12 
amended to read: 
* ? 1 0 • 
chargeback of tmjQaic^cash items and noncash. Items• 
If a Federal Reserve Hank does not receive payment for any cash 
TR 
accordance with the provisions of 3 210*9(a)* the amount of such 
m°y be. charged back to the sender, regardless of whether or not 
ts 
it:ara itself can be returned. If a Federal Reserve Bank .does not 
l''C(?-ive payment in actually and finally collected funds for any cash 
t(ini 
noncash item for which it gave credit: subject to payment in 
'UR'5-ly and finally collected funds, the amount of such item shall be 
Ch**ge<l u a c k t 0 t h e gender, regardless of whether or not the item itself 
t)c returned. 
In the event the amount of the item is charged back. 
the owner or holder of any such item nor the sender shall have the 
" 
recourse upon, interest in, or right of payment from, any reserve 

1 6 1 8 
b
a W > 
clearing account, deposit account, or other funds of the 
r'aVirig bank or of any collecting bank, in the possession of the Federal 
^oervG Bank. No draft, authorization to charge, or other order, upon 
anV reserve balance, clearing account, deposit account, or other funds 
the possession of a Federal Reserve Bank, issued for the purpose of 
PaVinS or remitting for any cash items or noncash items handled under 
the terms of this Part, will be paid, acted upon, or honored after 
*e<*ipt by such Federal Reserve Bank of notice of suspension or closing 
H the bank making the payment or remittance for its own or another's 
4, Section 210,3.5 is amended to substitute the term "§ 210.9" 
the term 
250J.2" appearing at the end of § 210,15, 
(12 U.S „C6 240(i) and (o) and 342,) 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 20, 1.972. 
(Signed) Hichacl A. Greenspan 
(SgAl , 
Michael A, Greenspan 
"Vj-i 
Assistant Secretary 
\ 

1617 
' FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part's 204 and 210] 
W a ivcr of Penalties for Deficiencies in Reserves 
Ou March 28, 1972, the Board announced that Jr. was eonsider-
H 
amending its Reflations D and J to restructure and reduce reserve 
reo.uireiuenLs and to require, banks to pay checks ou the day of present-
»®»t in immediately available funds. After reviewing the comments 
Reived, the Board has determined that member banks that will be. 
Aversely affected to a substantial degree, by adoption of these proposals 
Eh°«ld be permitted a reasonable time to adjust to the effects of the new 
E l a t i o n * . Below is the. text of a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks 
's'cUing out this measure; 
The Board regards it as appropriate for a Reserve Bank to 
penalties in some cases for member bank reserve deficiencies that 
5:°sult froai the implementation of the proposed amendments to Regulations 
0 and J, announced on i larch 28, 1972. In those cases where the imple-
mentation of these changes would result in a net loss of funds (as 
C0*puted by the Reserve Bank) in an amount more than two per cent; of 
th* member bank's net demand deposits, it seems appropriate to waive 
C e^rdn of the penalties for reserve deficiencies. For the reserve 
P^iqds ending on or before January 1, 1973, it is regarded as 
^ o p . i n t e m such cases to waive penalties on deficiencies in amounts 
0j! the full loss, less the two per cent of net demand deposits. For 
subsequent quarter, an additional one pur cent of net demand 

1618 
~2~ 
fiPoaits would be subtracted from the amount of deficiencies eligible 
:-waiver, until the amount of the waiver is eventually sere. This 
Etherisation for waivers will terminate on June 30, 1974, 
The loss to each member bank should be. calculated as the 
average amount.!^ of the bank's Federal Reserve cash letter for which 
it ^ 
Wo"ld make earlier payment, less the average amount of same-
^'•itory country items for which the bank would receive earlier credit, 
6v* 
1 W o per cent of its net demand deposits, whichever is less, less the 
reduction in reserve requirements due to the change in Regula-
011 
(por those few banks .wboe.e .reserve requirements would be 
leased, the change in reserves would be added rather than sub-
Applications for waiver should be subr.itted by a member 
b<iil!'; Prior to August 3.5, 1972. 
average"'amount wl. 11 bo calculated over the 4-week period 
on June 
1972. However, if an RCPC has been implemented 
1972, the Reserve Bank should choose a 4-week period prior 
c.u]
 G date of such implementation* 
In addition, for purposes of these 
^'CulHtions, the figure for net demand deposits should be the average 
t0unt of net demand deposits over that same period. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A, Greenspan 
kb 
Michael A". Greenspan 
Assistant Sccretary 

Item No. 4 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
6/20/72 
4bVco,'.. 
rjF r H E 
S-2202 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
AOOREHS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
« 
June 21, 1972 
The Board regards it as appropriate for a Reserve dan* 
to waive penalties in some cases for member bank reserve deficien-
cies that result from the implementation of the proposed amendments 
to Regulations D and J, announced on March 28, 1972. In those cases 
whare the implementation of these changes would result in a net lo.s 
of 
(a<. computed by the Reserve Bank) in an amount more than 
two par cent of the member bank's net demand deposits, it 
ftp^ropriate to waive certain of the penalties for reserve ^.tcicn-
cies," -For the reserve periods ending on or before January ]., .u/s, 
it is r e d d e d as appropriate in such cases to waive penalties on 
deficiencies in amounts of the full loss, less the two per cent ot 
nor; demand deposits. For each subsequent quarter, an additional 
one per cent of net demand deposits would be subtracted from luc 
amount of deficiencies eligible for waiver, until the amount o . tne 
Waiver is eventually zero. This authorization for waivers will 
terminate on June 30, 1974. 
The loss to each member bank should be calculated as the 
average amount!/ of the bank's Federal Reserve cash letter tor wnich 
it would make earlier payment, less the average amount of ^ m e ~ 
t err ivory country items for which the bank w o u U receive e«rliex 
credit or two per cent of its net demand deposits, whichever is 
1 
be calculated over the 4-week Period 
ending on June 23, 1972. However, If an RCPC has been imp erentee 
during 1972 
the Reserve Bank should choose a 4-week period prior 
to the date of such implementation. 
In addition, for purposes ox 
these calculations, the figure for net demand deposits should be 
the average amount of net demand deposits over that same period. 

1«20 
loss, less the average reduction in reserve requirements 
the Change in Regulation D, (Per those few banks whose reserve 
retirements would bo. increased, the change in reserves would be 
added rather than subtracted.) 
Applications for waiver should be. submitted by a member 
bank prior to August 15, 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
.
.
-
r
v 
v. 
* * 
i 
Xv 
/ 
/ 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AMD VICE PRESIDENTS 
«) CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

1621 
Item No. 5 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
6/20/72 
nr T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
s-2203 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O . 
C . 
20351 
a d d r e s s o f f i c i a l 
c a n s e n p a N O E N c e 
TO THE QUAUO 
June 21, 1972 
tts 
The Board's actions revising Regulations D and J, together with 
a •.tfcPr?iVious policy statements on clearing facilities, have put in place 
af^^-pronged program for achieving greater equity among banks and a more 
t^^tmt payments mechanism. 
It is essential that all the elements of 
Pr°grani move forward together. The timing of System efforts with 
' ';t to regional clearing arrangements is, therefore, critical. 
A frequent suggestion received by the Board in comments on 
^ t i o U G D ar.r! J was that RCPC accommodation should be provided for 
V h « U i out'-lying communities in order to ease the transition to an 
payment basis. Implementation of the territorial expansion of 
•Og^l^-Sht clearing areas at established Federal Reserve offices and the 
to^'^vnent of new clearing facilities, where essential, will be helpful 
as well as to member banks, The Board would like to see as 
V,* p0£ these new arrangements in operation as possible by the time the 
>y£ulation J goes into effect. 
% 
o 
In addition, the Board believes that satellite centers having 
cut~off hours as other facilities and additional courier runs 
^ ^ the lines suggested by the Subcommittee on Bank Services, should 
Vjtab:Ll*««hcd where appropriate. Each RCPC should equalise access to 
by revising cut-off hours for cash items received from 
** 
Seated at considerable, distance from Federal Reserve facilities 
other Federal Reserve Districts. 
v.it 
Comiuuni cat ions with member banks is another service that should 
^ 
at this time. As the change in Regulation J goes into effect, 
of incoming phone calls will likely increase in most Federal 
~ V° off 
airj the cost will normally be paid by the Reserve Bank. 

1622 
2 
-
Thft 
^.^comttlit tec on Bank Services suggests, and the Board agrees 
that the 
? Clonal volume of calls may justify HI-WATS lines. Additional direct 
J'leSfaph service Lo member banks both within and outside of Federal 
i 
office cities should also be implemented when this would be 
distent with established System guidelines. 
It is highly desirable that Reserve Banks be able to announce 
J^vemencs in services by the time the Regulation D and J changes become 
pl^tive in the fall of this year. The staff of the Board s Division of 
i!u<*al Reserve Bank Operations stands ready to assist, if it can be helpful 
l y way. The Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism 
3 
^ active in the coordination of System activities in support of new 
L U e c t i 0 « *nd communication programs. Requests for budget increases 
to carry out the service improvements discussed in this Letter 
1 ^ considered promptly by the Board's Committee on Organization, 
'P^Gatlou, and Building Plans. 
Sincerely yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
hi 
^ T!-Ttj 
I;;11' PRESIDENTS OF ALT, FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
THE VICE PRESIDENTS 
IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

..... 
B O A R D D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1623 
Item No. 6 
6/20/72 
ADOREbS OFriCIAl. CORRtSPDNOENCE 
TU THE HOARD 
June 21, 1972 
0.jr v 
The Board'3 press release with respect to the implementation 
toil] ^ in°difications to Regulation J suggests that the discount windows 
CrerH 
responsive to requests of member banks temporarily in need of 
t o titic t h e m o v°r a period of adiustment to the new check col-
e c t lon basis. 
. 
Board believes that it would be desirable for the lending 
tllG Reserve Banks to respond to such requests with as much 
tooc! ?!W:i t:y nil 
therefore expects that guidelines for accom-
s u c h borrowing will be developed by the lending officers of 
and by Board's staff in advance of the actual imple-
itr.on of the amended Regulation, It is understood that the 
subinL'aG 
officer at your Bank with regard to discussing this 
JJ^j j ^ . 
~ »•» — i", V- M 
XI- J. uuv.r.Aoi,utiu curt u i.xn.. 
o f Federal Reserve Bank Operations has already communicated 
ji^ 
" 
" 
~ 
u 
a telephone conference call on Thursday, June 22. 
Very truly yours. 
(Bf 'mk; 
' 
/ 
/ 
/ Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
5 ^nu branches) 
Ufa , ^^SIDGHXS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BMKS 
'J;,!E VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

LETTER FROM PRESIDENTS OF FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS TO ALL BANKS 
IN 
- ^ L I L L S T R T C T S 
COVERING REGULATIONS D AND J MATERTAL 
' 
Item No. 7 
Sir: 
6/20/72 
Enclosed are the press release and the official notices issued 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System in connection 
the promulgation cf changes in Regulations D and J. The Board has 
tended its original proposals, published for comment in the Federal 
Agister of April 1. As the press release indicates, the Board 
; 
recei.vcd a number of comments and suggestions. This Bank, along 
V*-th the other Federal Reserve Banks, conducted meetings and discussions 
° n the proposals. The modifications in the proposals, as finally adopted, 
*-°flect the Board's desire to make a smooth transition to the new rules. 
The modifications in the proposals consist of the addition of a 
$i00 million net demand deposit reserve classification and a 
PtOV-J o ' 
r 
•••>ion for waiver of penalties on reserve deficiencies over a period 
Of ( ,JP to 21 months for some banks. 
During the next three months, prior to the effective date of 
^utuiged regulations, Reserve Bank representatives will work with you 
to 
l^ke all necessary clearing arrangements and to develop a schedule 
for -? 
•aiver of reserve deficiencies in cases where this is applicable. 
^all also be working with many banks on the creation of additional 
Hp-* 
'•••Ovial check processing centers in an effort to expedite the develop-
^VYt p. r 
1 a nationwide network for faster and more efficient check clearings. 
Very truly yours, 
, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of 
