MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 10, 1972 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. 

2797 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 10, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the individual briefings have been placed in the Board's files, 
along with copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review. 
Mr. Rippey reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress, after which those who had attended the 
meeting specifically for the economic review withdrew. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2733 
10/10/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved the application of First 
National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire shares of a finance company to be formed in Guam. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. Governor 
Robertson abstained from voting on this and all other items on the 
consent calendar. He did not feel that he had had sufficient time for 
preparation. 
The Board approved the application of First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Citicorp 
Leasing of Puerto Rico, Inc., San Juan, Puerto Rico. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board approved the application of First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Finance Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to continue to hold 
shares of First Pennsylvania Overseas Development Company, Limited, Nassau, 
Bahamas, after the latter acquires shares of Financiera de First Pennsyl-
vania, San Jose, Costa Rica. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved the application of Florida Bancorp, Inc., 
Pompano Beach, Florida, to acquire shares of Northwestern Bank of Broward 
County, Margate, Florida, a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 4. In a related action, the Board approved the application of 
Northwestern Bank of Broward Country for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 5. 

e •utU 
10/10/72 
-3-
The Board approved the application of Southeast Banking Corpo-
ration, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of American National Bank and 
Trust Company of South Pasadena, St. Petersburg, Florida, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board approved the application of Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., 
Chattanooga, Tennessee, to acquire shares of The Farmers National Bank of 
Winchester, Winchester, Tennessee, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board approved the application of Twin City Corp., Kansas City, 
Kansas, (1) to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares 
of Twin City State Bank, Kansas City, Kansas; and (2) to engage in insur-
ance agency activities through acquisition of Twin City Financial Services, 
Inc., also of Kansas City. The Board also authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Valley Falls Insurance. In a memorandum dated October 4, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Valley Falls Insurance, Inc., Valley Falls, Kansas, (1) for 
Permission to retain its present controlling interest and acquire additional 
shares of Kendall State Bank, also of Valley Falls; and (2) for permission to 
continue to engage in general insurance activities. Other documentation 
that had been prepared for the Board's consideration included memoranda from 

2800 
10/10/72 
-4-
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 9 and September 8, 
1972. The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City also recommended approval. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the under-
standing that an order reflecting that decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration. 
Boatmen's Bancshares. In a memorandum dated October 4, 1972, 
the Legal Division discussed a request by Lewis and Clark State Bank, 
St. Louis County, Missouri, for a stay of the Board's order of September 26, 
1972, approving the application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., St. Louis, 
Missouri, to acquire shares of Boatmen's National Bank of North St. Louis 
County, St. Louis County, Missouri. The Division recommended denial of 
the request. 
The Board unanimously denied the request. A copy of the letter 
sent to counsel for Lewis and Clark State Bank is attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On October 5, 1972, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York had established, subject to review and determi-
nation by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4-3/4 per cent (an increase 
from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for and advances to member banks under 
sections 13 and 13(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; they had also acted to 
establish appropriately corresponding rates on advances under other sections 

2 y o n 
10/10/72 
-5-
of the Act. On September 29, 1972, the Board had disapproved actions 
to raise the discount rate by 1/4 percentage point that had been taken 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, 
and Kansas City; subsequently, on October 3, 1972, the Board had disap-
proved another action by the Boston Bank calling for such an increase. 
The views of the directors of the New York Bank had been forwarded 
to the Board in a wire, dated October 5, 1972, which read in part as follows 
"In the view of the directors, the basic factors that 
prompted their action two weeks ago remain unchanged. 
They noted in this regard that some market interest rates— 
including the highly visible prime rate—have moved still 
higher in the past two weeks, and that the growth of the 
money and credit aggregates for 1972 to date has been 
decidedly high despite the more moderate recent pace. 
In taking this action, the directors re-emphasized their 
continuing concern over the risks of intensifying infla-
tionary pressures as the economy strengthens further in 
the months ahead, particularly in view of the Federal 
budgetary outlook. It was also noted that such action 
was not likely to give rise to disturbing market effects 
at this time. The directors also believe that the timing 
of their action is appropriate in light of the constraints 
that may emerge in the weeks ahead due, in part, to the 
prospects of heavy Treasury borrowing. Also, it was 
again noted that such an action would tend to have favorable 
international implications." 
Discussion indicated that the Board favored disapproval of the 
proposed increase. Several members noted that there had been no significant 
changes in short-term market rates since the Board had acted on September 29 
and October 3 to disapprove pending increases of 1/4 percentage point. In 
addition, growth in the monetary aggregates had continued at a moderate 
pace. In these circumstances, it was suggested that a higher discount rate 

2802 
10/10/72 
-6-
would be viewed as a market-leading move, which might well foster further 
increases in bank prime rates. Moreover, such an increase might be 
subject to misinterpretation in the period before the November 7 election. 
Some Board members, while favoring disapproval of the proposed increase 
at this time, nevertheless said they felt a higher rate was likely to be 
needed later, and given the limited opportunities that might be available 
over the weeks ahead for raising the rate, they would vote to deny the 
proposed increase today with some reluctance. 
After further consideration the Board by unanimous vote disapproved 
the discount rate action taken by the New York Bank, with the understanding 
that the Bank would be so advised by telegram today and that a letter 
outlining the considerations involved in the Board's decision would also 
be sent. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 10. 
Other discount rates. The Board approved unanimously actions 
taken by the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia, Atlanta, Kansas City, 
and San Francisco on October 5, 1972, establishing x^ithout change the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2803 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R G 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
UF THE 
Item No. 1 
10/10/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D , 
C . 
205M 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPDNOEI'iCe 
Tn THE BDAHD 
October 10, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
I n v e s t m e n t 
C o r p o r a l ; i o n 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 28, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("FNCOIC") , to 
purchase and bold, directly or indirectly, up to 70 per cent of 
the chares of a finance company, ("GFC") , to be formed in Agana, 
Guam, under the laws of that territory at a cost of approximately 
$17 5,000j provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the d at e o f t his 1e 1fe r. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of GFC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
ccnditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in GFC if GFC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under' Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if GFC establishes any branch cr 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
In Guam or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) that, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will cause GFC (a) to submit to examination by ex-
aminers appointed by the Board of Governors and (b) 
to furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of GFC as the Board may require from time 
to tirno; and 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
< 
(3) Thar, any share acquisitions or dispositions by GFC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if GFC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act* 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
cuested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of 
Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of GFC, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
D F 
THF: 
Item No. 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
10/10/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
205!>1 
Aoonciii urnciAu cawRr.fif'DNCttJtJE 
TO THE UOAMC 
October 10. 1972 
First National City Overseas 
X n.v o s tme n t Co r p o r at; i on 
399 Fa)k Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gent j.eraon: 
As requested in your letter of May 9, 1972, the Board 
of: Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC'') to 
purchase and hold all of the shares of Citicorp Leasing of Puerto 
Rico, Inc. ("CLPR"), San Juan, Puerto Rico, at a cost of $1,000 
plus art amount equal to the retained earni ngs of CLPR at the date 
of acquisition (about; $265,000), provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CLPR by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not. hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of: stock in CLPR if CLPR at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organised 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if CLPR establishes any branch or 
agency or takes sny action or undertakes any operation 
in Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CLPR as it nay require from time to 
time: and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CLPR 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same wanner as if CLPR were- a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

To: First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
~2~ 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is 
requested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of 
Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of CLPR. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2807 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N , D R S 
Item No. 3 
• R 
T H E 
10/10/72 
FEDERAL 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C-. 
20551 
ADDRESS TTFICIAL CtlRRr.SPON DE MCE 
TO THE BClAfifJ 
October 10, 1972 
First Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation 
Fh' lad el phi a, Pennsylvania 1.9101 
. i 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of July 3 and August 21, 1972, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("FPOFC"), 
t:o continue to hold the shares of First Pennsylvania Overseas 
Development Company, Limited, ("FP0DC"), Nassau, Bahamas, after FPODC 
acquires 51 per cent of the stock of Finarxiera de First Pennsylvania,^ 
("FF}.'") , San Jose, Costa Rica, at a cost of approximately Co loans 1 >356,000, 
(about $204,000), provided the shares arc acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of FFP by FPOFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(3.) That FPOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FFP if l'FP at any time, 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the FederaJ 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if FFP 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Costa Rica 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible ?.o FPOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FPOFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of FFP as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
FFP be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if FFP were a 
corporation organized under Section 2 5(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 

2808 
First: Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the Immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by FFP in Costa Rica m the 
currency of that country. 
Upon comoletion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that" the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve^ 
Bank of Philadelphia, with copies of Articles of Association, Memoranuum 
o.' Association, and By-Laws of FFP. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
acquisition will be made with the resources of FPODC and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from the 
United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

. 2809 
Item No. 4 
10/10/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FLORIDA BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Florida Bancorp, Inc., Pompano Beach, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 98.6 per cent of the voting shares of Northwestern Bank of 
Broward County, Margate, Florida ("Margate Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $58.4 
million, representing 0.4 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
kanks in Florida and is the twenty-seventh largest banking organization 
ar*d bank holding company in the State. 
(All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved by the Board through August 31, 1972.) Since 
^a*gate Bank is a proposed new bank no existing competition would be 
Gliminated nor would the concentration of banking resources be affected. 
The proposed site of Margate Bank is west of Pompano Beach 
a market area comprised of the Fort Lauderdale, Pompano Beach, and 
Boca Raton sections of Broward and Palm Beach Counties. There are 

"2" 
z y i o 
^ banks operating in the market. Applicant, the smallest of seven bank 
holding companies represented in the market, holds 4.4 per cent of total 
Market deposits, whereas the two largest holding companies hold 42.3 per 
C e n t« 
Applicant's present subsidiaries are situated 6 and 8 miles, respec-
U v e l y , from the proposed site of Margate Bank. They compete locally with 
subsidiaries of a holding company which controls 65.61 per cent of 
tlle total deposits of the Pompano Beach area. It appears that the competing 
banks x^ould not be adversely affected by consummation of the proposed acqui-
sition nor would any significant amount of potential competition be fore-
closed thereby. Competitive considerations are consistent with approval 
o f the application. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
tv,° subsidiary banks are considered to be satisfactory, and prospects 
f 
r the group appear favorable. The proposed new bank has no financial 
°Perating history, however prospects for Margate Bank as a member 
Appij_cant»s sy51em appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent 
^ t h approval of the application. The major banking needs of the area 
a*e being adequately served at the present time, and no new services 
V° U l d 
provided area residents by Margate Bank. However, the residents 
v°uld benefit from the introduction of an alternative source of banking 
SGrvices to the area. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
ne°ds of the communities to be served are consistent with approval of 
th 
e aPplication. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
pr°Posed acquisition would be in the public interest and the application 
be approved. 

2811 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) 
Northwestern Bank of Broward County, Margate, Florida, shall be 
°Pened for business not later than six months after the effective 
date of this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 10, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Present and abstaining: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

>.': :1! I 
><; 
. 
•S- re^V 
JL h* 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
OR THE 
10/10/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
« 
r [ 
^ n DRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPUNOENCE 
TO THE ECJARD 
October 10, 1972 
Beard of Directors 
Northwestern Bank of Broward County 
Margate, Florida 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors cf the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Northwestern Bank of Broward County, 
Margai:e, Florida, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate 
State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
s e t forth. 
J. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety 
of its depositors, and except with the permission of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
such bank shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
2. The net: capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such hank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $500,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$500,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
' Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
i 

2 S & 3 
Northwestern Bank of 
Browazd County 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
le tier should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice 
of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
He serve System in the manner described may be accomplished is 15. mi ted 
t 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the' 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board wi.il forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
V ery tr u .1 y y our s, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
t 
Ene'J osur e 

2814 
Item No. 6 
10/10/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
i 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of American National 
Bank and Trust Company of South Pasadena, South Pasadena, Florida 
("American Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
i 
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
^ith § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has ex-
pired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 17 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.24 
Million. representing 7.64 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
held by Florida banks, and is the largest banking organization in the 
1/ 
State. 
The acquisition of American Bank would increase Applicant's 
share of Florida deposits by .24 percentage points, and would not sub-
stantially increase the concentration of banking resources on a State 
° r local level. 
I 
y 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, except Applicant's 
Acquisitions approved by the Board are as of September 21, 1972, and 
a U other formations and acquisitions approved by the Board are as of 
August 31, 1972. 

-2-
American Bank controls 4.06 per cent of commercial deposits 
in the South Pinellas banking market and is the tenth largest of 25 
banks in this market. At the present time there are six multibank 
holding companies represented in the market, controlling 54.27 per 
Cent of area deposits. It appears that consummation of the proposal 
w°uld not adversely affect any of these area banks. 
The proposed acquisition would represent Applicant's first 
e n t ry into the South Pinellas market. Its closest subsidiary offices 
are located 30 miles to the south and to the northwest, respectively, 
from American Bank. Consummation of this proposal would not eliminate 
significant present competition between these offices nor would 
Meaningful potential competition be removed considering the distances 
involved, the presence of intervening banks, and restrictions on 
branching imposed by State law. Competitive considerations are 
insistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiaries are deemed to be generally satisfactory and prospects 
the group appear favorable. Applicant proposes to inject equity 
CaPital into American Bank which will significantly improve its capital 
and will also supplement present management. Banking factors 
are consistent with and lend support toward approval of the application 
in view of the proposed improvements and support to be derived by 
Am 
nerican Bank from affiliation with Applicant. Although the major 
banking needs of the area are adequately served at the present time, 

2816 
-3-
the proposed affiliation will improve American Bank's ability to 
compete with larger area banks through its expanded and improved ser-
vices and larger lending capabilities. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
with approval of the application, It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
aPplication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 10, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
•i' Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Present and abstaining: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

Item No. 7 
10/10/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
HAMILTON BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Hamilton Bancshares, Inc., Chattanooga, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8*2(a)(3)) to acquire slightly more than 50 per cent of the voting shares 
°f The Farmers National Bank of Winchester, Winchester, Tennessee ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Psrsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
» 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in the State, 
11 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of approximately 
$504 million, representing about 5.8 per cent of deposits of commercial 
ai*ks in Tennessee ^ 
Consummation of the transaction herein would increase 
applicant' s share of deposits by only .2 percentage points and would not 
rS8ult in a significant increase in the concentration of banking resources 
Tennessee. 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1971 and reflect bank 
°lding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
thtough August 31, 1972. 

zsia 
-2-
Barik (deposits of about $17 million) is the second largest 
°f seven banking organizations competing in the Winchester-Tullahoina 
area, and holds 25.4 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
therein. Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is approximately 
3 5 miles away while Applicant's lead bank located in Chattanooga is 
about 70 miles east of Bank. Due to the intervening distances and 
Tennessee's restrictive branching laws, there is no significant 
existing competition between Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank, nor 
there a reasonable probability of future competition developing 
between the two. The Winchester-Tullahoma area is not an attractive 
a^ea for de novo entry as measured by personal income per capita and 
Population per banking office ratios, which are both considerably 
below the Statewide averages. The Board concludes that competitive 
c°nsiderations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are regarded as generally 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. Con-
siderations relating to convenience and needs of the community to be 
Served are also consistent with approval of the application. While 
Applicant's proposal contemplates the purchases of only slightly more 
than 50 per cent of the voting shares of Bank and could jeopardize the 
status of the minority shareholders of Bank, Applicant has committed 
itself to making a substantially equivalent offer to the minority 
shareholders of Eank within 6 months after the consummation of the 

2819 
-3-
P^oposal herein. Under these circumstances, the Board does not consider 
that Applicant's failure to make an equal offer to all shareholders 
initially requires denial of the application. It is the Board's 
judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
• On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective October 10, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
~ 
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_
_ 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns, Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, 
and Bucher. Present and abstaining: Governor Robertson. Absent and 
not voting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

2820 
Item No. 8 
10/10/72 
\ 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TWIN CITY CORP. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding 
Company and Acquisition of Insurance Agency 
Twin City Corp., Kansas City, Kansas, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 
v 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Twin City 
State Bank, Kansas City, Kansas ("Bank"). 
At the same time Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
| 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
t o engage in insurance agency activities through the acquisition of the 
shares of Twin City Financial Services, Inc., Kansas City, Kansas ("Agency"). 
| 
. , . . . 
... 
.... 
- - 
j 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
w i th §§ 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments and views has 
e^Pired. The Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
1 
i n the light of the facts set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), 
an<* the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) 
an<* finds that: 
Applicant, a non-operating company, was formed for the purpose 
reorganizing the individual ownership of Bank and Agency into corporate 
.. 
. 
| 
Applicant would acquire Bank through an exchange of its stock for 
bank's stock, and a cash offering. In addition, since Agency presently 
.1 
• 
j 
°vns 4 
.69 per cent of Bank's shares, Applicant would acquire such shares 
trough its acquisition of Agency. 

-2-
1/ 
Bank, with deposits of $18.2 million, 
controls less than .5 
Percentage points of deposits in commercial banks in the Kansas City SMSA. 
Since the transaction involves only a change from individual to corporate 
ownership, consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effects on 
listing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant are largely dependent on those of Bank and Agency. Bank has 
been operated capably since 1963 and substantially the same management 
w°uld continue to operate Bank. Although Applicant will incur debt in 
Squiring Bank, its income from Bank and Agency should provide sufficient 
revenue to retire debt within 10 years. Financial and managerial considera-
tions are, therefore, consistent with approval. Considerations relating 
t o the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application to 
Bank should be approved. 
Agency operates on the premises of Bank and sells primarily 
credit life and credit accident insurance in connection with extensions 
o f credit by Bank. Agency also sells automobile collision insurance in 
c°nnection with automobile financing, with the Bank named as the loss payee, 
^ency proposes to act as agent for the sale of insurance for Applicant, 
^ s subsidiaries, and the protection of their respective employees. These 
insurance agency activities have previously been determined by regulation 
tt} be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(9)). 
•i' Banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2 8 2 2 
-3-
Agency began operations on April 1, 1971, to sell insurance 
connection with loans made by Eank, Agency appears to adequately 
serve the convenience of Bank's installment loan customers. Because of 
^ e limited nature of its insurance activities, Agency does not compete 
significantly with general insurance agencies in the Kansas City SMSA and 
the proposed reorganization of Agency's operations should have no effect 
°n competition for insurance services in that market. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
o f the proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, 
unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or 
°ther adverse effects on the public interest. Based upon the foregoing 
and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board has determined 
that the balance of the public interest factors that the Board is required 
t o consider regarding the acquisition of Agency under § 4(c)(8) is favorable 
and that the application should be approved. 
The provision of any credit, property or services by the 
h°lding company or any affiliate thereof shall not be subject to any 
c°ndition which, if Imposed by the bank, would constitute an unlawful 
tie-in arrangement under § 106 of the Bank Holding Company Act Amend-
ments of 1970. 
On the basis of the record, the applications to acquire Bank 
and Agency are approved for the reasons summarized above. The acquisi-
tion of Bank shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 

2823 
-3-
toonths after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. The determination as to 
Agency's activities is subject to the Board's authority to require 
reports by, and make examinations of, holding companies and their subsi-
diaries and to require such modification or termination of the activities 
o f a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
hereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective October 10, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
V 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, 
and Bucher. Present and abstaining: Governor Robertson. Absent and not 
v°ting: Governors Daane and Brimmer. 

O C i O A 
$ 
•Hvs.^:-' 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
10/10/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
?.0551 
ADDMCSS OrFICIAL CtJUREEPONOC.'^t: 
TD THE RQARL1 
October 11, 1972 
Richard L. Hughes, Esq. 
Ho gab, Hughes & Green, Inc. 
900 In terna t iona 1 Bui 1 d ing 
722 Chestnut Street 
St. Louis, Missouri 63101 
Re: Order Approving Application of Boatmen's 
Bancshares, Inc., to acquire Boatmen's 
National Bank of North St. Louis County. 
Dear Mr. Hughes: 
This is in further reply to your letter of September 28, 
1972, approving the application of Boatmen's Bancshares, Inc., to 
acquire Boatmen's National Bank of North St. Louis County. 
Your request for a stay has been considered by the Board 
of Governors. The Board found that the request did not present 
any issues of law or fact to support the granting of a stay. Fur-
ther, the Board found no evidence to show significant and irreparable 
damage to protestant Lewis and Clark State Bank if the transaction 
approved is consummated within the time limits of the Order. The 
Board concluded that a stay of indeterminate length while the matter 
is before the U. S. Court of Appeals is unwarranted and would be 
contrary to the public interest. Accordingly, your request for a 
stay pending judicial review W3S denied. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
yO^'vO.'. 
or THE 
0. 
F F : P E R A 1 - 
R
E
S
E
R 
V E 
5 Y 5 T I I M 
' 
WASHINGTON, o. C. 2USSI 
October 10, 197 2 
Item No. 10 
10/10/72 
2vlr. Alfred 13. Hayes, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Nc// York, New York 
10045 
^ear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors took action today to disapprove 
the pending increase in your Bank's discount rate from 4-1/2 
to 4.-3/4 per cent which your directors voted to establish on 
October 5, 
The Board's decision was influenced by a number 
considerations, including the desirability of avoiding an overt 
"policy action during the period of a Treasury cash financing. 
The Board also continued to feel that an increase in the discount 
I'ate would not constitute a timely action in furtherance of the 
Economic stabilization effort under prevailing economic and 
Eaa rket conditions. 
In arriving at its decision, the Board also took note of 
the further evidence of moderation in the growth of bank reserves 
and the monetary aggregates since its action on September 29 to 
disapprove a then pending increase in your Bank's discount rate. 
addition, the Board took cognizance of the fact chat most 
short-term interest rates had remained around levels which 
did not in its view call for a higher discount rate. 
In the Board's 
judgment the recent increases in bank prime lending rates, cited 
in your Bank's October 5 wire to the Board, did not in themselves 
argue for a higher discount rate. 
In the circumstances the Board 
continued to believe that an increase in the discount rate would 
•Hi widely interpreted as leading rather than following market 
interest rates. 

Mr. Alfred B. Hayes 
Page 2. 
May I add that the Board has asked me to convey their 
appreciation for having had the benefit of the views of your 
directors. 
Sincerely yours, 
J....J*-
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
