MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 30, 1969 

383 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 30, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. DaaneJL/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
faw-.,. 
• . «... 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data 
Processing 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser 
M r . Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Winkler of the Office of 
the Secretary 
a£ chjc 
v.",.; r » ,, 
Of 
t h 
.,-w: 
VU.r -j,,; ; , 
^'•rii .< 
•!• I 
L7> 'V,-. , 
• ^ v- C > 
•i f c? -• 
i/ Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

1/30/69 
-2-
Messrs. Lynch and Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Lawrence, and Wiles, and Miss 
Wickstead of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Goodfellow, Harris, Hill, and 
Sanford, and Miss McShane of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of N. B. National Bank, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, with National Bank and Trust Company, also 
°f Charl 
ottesville, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation 
°f the proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate 
the acquisition of National Bank and Trust Company by N. B. Corporation, 
Charlottesville, Virginia, a newly-formed holding company) would have 
n o adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
U 
tt" • •. % | > 
• 
>> 
m e r g e r of Bank of Harrellsville, Harrellsville, North Carolina, into 
Sl'M i | - . > 
,, • . 
Peoples Bank & Trust Company, Rocky Mount, North Carolina, was approved 
, 
... 
j . 
..-.•,. 
..... 
U nanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tfon, the conclusion stating that the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
m e r g e r of First American National Bank of Nashville, Nashville, 
Tennessee, with American National Bank of Nashville, Nashville, 
^
ennessee, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency, the conclusion stating that consummation of the 

1/30/69 
-2-
proposed merger (which was merely a transaction to facilitate the 
acquisition of First American National Bank of Nashville by First 
American National Corporation, a newly-formed holding company) would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Southern National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas, with 
Southern Bank, National Association, also of Houston, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the 
conclusion stating that consummation of the proposed merger (which 
was merely a transaction to facilitate the acquisition of Southern 
National Bank of Houston by Southern National Corporation, a newly-
formed holding company) would have no adverse competitive effects. 
First Florida Bancorporation. The Board authorized issuance 
°f orders and a statement reflecting approval on December 20, 1968, 
°f the applications of First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Marine Bank and Trust Company and 
Commercial Bank of Tampa, both of Tampa, Florida. Copies of the 
documents are attached under 11em No. 1. 
Barnett National. The Board authorized issuance of an order 
aT*d statement reflecting approval on January 15, 1969, of the applica-
tion of Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, 
t o acquire shares of The Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company, 
T allahas see, Florida. Copies of the documents are attached under 

331 
1/30/69 
-9-
Fidelity Union Trust Company. Fidelity Union Trust Company, 
Newark, New Jersey, had applied for permission to merge with Montclair 
National Bank and Trust Company, Montclair, New Jersey. The Board's 
staff and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York recommended denial. 
After a discussion of the application, relating principally 
to the banking market involved, Governor Mitchell stated that he had 
been unable to review the file as thoroughly as he would like and 
that he would therefore abstain from participating in the decision. 
Other Board memb ers indicated that they agreed with the 
recommendation of the Board's staff and the Reserve Bank. 
Accordingly, 
the application was denied, Governor Mitchell abstaining, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting the decision 
Would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Summit and Elizabeth Trust Company. Summit and Elizabeth 
T r u s t Company, Summit, New Jersey, had applied for permission to merge 
W l t h Clark State Bank and Trust Company, Clark, New Jersey. 
The 
recommendationsof the Board's staff and the Federal Reserve Bank of 
N e w York were favorable. 
After discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
W l t h the understanding that an order and statement reflecting the 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Revisions in condition and income reports. A memorandum from 
Mo s r s • Partee and Veenstra dated January 28, 1969, submitted a 

387 
1/30/69 
-5-
proposed announcement, to be issued jointly by the several Federal 
bank supervisory agencies, concerning revisions in the condition 
report and statement of income for all insured commercial banks. 
The proposed revisions represented the result of nearly 
two years of effort to obtain uniformity in the report forms of the 
several agencies, along with a greater degree of uniformity with 
bank disclosure regulations. The revisions had been cleared with 
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation and had 
been approved by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation, but they had not been submitted 
formally to the Bureau of the Budget pending approval by the Board. 
If finally approved, the changes would become effective with the 
first report of condition in 1969 and with the annual report of 
income for 1969. 
It was noted that in several areas compromises had been 
required in order to reach interagency agreement. However, with 
very minor exceptions, uniformity in the condition and income reports 
had been achieved, and important steps toward conformity with dis-
closure regulations had been taken. It was recommended that the Board 
aPprove the changes in the condition report and income statement as 
Proposed, that supplies of the proposed announcement be forwarded to 
the Federal Reserve Banks for distribution to State member banks, and 
that copies of the new forms be transmitted to the Budget Bureau for 
aPproval. 

331 
1/30/69 
-9-
The tone of comments by Board members was commendatory. 
The 
fact that some compromises had been necessary in order to obtain 
interagency agreement was accepted, and it was noted that staff efforts 
could continue in those areas where it was felt that the results 
achieved to date were not completely satisfactory. 
Accordingly, the recommendations contained in the memorandum 
from Messrs. Partee and Veenstra were approved unanimously, with the 
I- '*. 
understanding that the indicated actions to implement the Board's 
decision would be taken. 
(Note: A copy of the joint announcement, 
as subsequently issued, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Chase Manhattan. Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
New York, New York, had applied for permission to acquire all of the 
stock of a proposed "Delaware" corporation, which subsidiary would in 
turn acquire all of the shares (or acquire the assets and assume the 
liabilities) of Housing Investment Corporation, a Florida corporation 
conducting a real estate mortgage financing and servicing business 
outside the States of the United States, primarily in Puerto Rico and 
to some extent in the Virgin Islands. 
Discussion of the matter included a request by Governor Brimmer 
that there be added to the letter to applicant a paragraph bearing upon 
the relationship of activities of Housing Investment Corporation to 
the foreign credit restraint program. 
The application was then approved unanimously; a copy of the 
letter sent pursuant to the Board's action is attached as 11em No. 3. 

_ 389 
1/30/69 
-7-
Governor Daane joined the meeting at this point. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum of January 29, 1969, 
Mr. Broida had submitted drafts of policy record entries covering the 
meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee on November 26 and 
December 17, 1968, which entries took into account comments received 
following the distribution of preliminary drafts. Mr. Broida also 
submitted a draft of statement, similar in form to the one included in 
the Board's Annual Report for 1967, that would prefa ce the complete 
record of policy actions for the year 1968. 
If the materials were approved by the Board, it was planned 
that they would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, with 
ari indication of the date by which any further comments should be 
received, and that they would then be submitted to the Board for final 
review prior to release. In that connection, Mr. Broida pointed out 
t t lat if the usual 90-day lag were employed, the November 26 and 
December 17 entries would be published on February 24 and March 17, 
respectively. In most recent years, however, the policy record for 
the full preceding year had been made available relatively early in 
new year, at the request of Congressional committees, to those 
i 
committees and the press. The timing, which usually was related to 
che date of the Chairman of the Board s testimony before the Joint 
^onomic Committee, had ranged from January 31 to February 26. 
•( i 
After discussion, the entry for the Committee meeting on 
November 26, 1968, was approved unanimously, along with the proposed 
Prefatory statement. 

331 
1/30/69 
-9-
With reference to the entry for December 17, Governor Daane 
and President Swan (San Francisco) had raised a question concerning 
the extent to which, if at all, the entry should include language 
indicating that the Board of Governors planned to meet following the 
Committee meeting to consider proposed discount rate increases of 
varying amounts and also the possibility of increasing member bank 
reserve requirements. 
In order to assist the Board in deciding the 
question, there was attached to Mr. Broida's memorandum of January 29 
a preliminary draft of policy record action covering the Board meeting 
held on the afternoon of December 17. 
In terms of principle, it appeared to be the general view 
that it was reasonable, and in some circumstances almost obligatory, 
to recognize in the policy record entries of the Federal Open Market 
Committee the fact that there had been discussion relating to the 
U s e or prospective use by the Board of one or more of the monetary 
Policy instruments over which it had authority since, as in this 
instance, such information had a bearing on the formulation of the 
Committee's current economic policy directive. 
It was also the view, 
expressed most specifically by the Chairman, that in the preparation 
o f Policy record entries of both the Committee and the Board the thrust 
should be in the direction of full disclosure. 
The second phase of the discussion related to the more specific 
Question of the amount of detail that should be provided in the situa-
tion under consideration, particularly in view of the prospective 

331 
1/30/69 
-9-
early release date of the December 17 entry. Some reservations were 
expressed with respect to the advisability of specifying that an 
increase in reserve requirements had been seriously under consideration 
but had been rejected by the Board, at least temporarily, because it 
could not be foretold with certainty what conditions would prevail on 
the release date and therefore what expectations might be aroused at 
that time. It was pointed out, however, that in accordance with the 
customary procedure the policy record entry would be brought back to 
the Board for final review prior to release and that a decision today 
to approve the entry would not necessarily foreclose the possibility 
of some further adjustment in the language of the entry if that 
should appear prudent in the light of conditions as they then existed. 
Another thought expressed was that the Board probably would still 
have latitude to adjust the release date slightly, depending somewhat 
°n the timing of the Chairman's testimony before the Joint Economic 
Committee. 
As to the preliminary draft of Board policy record entry, 
some members suggested that the language was cast rather negatively, 
or in other words that the entry failed to bring out sufficiently 
cne fact that even though the action on the discount rate had been 
limited to an increase of one-fourth of a percentage point and action 
°n reserve requirements had been decided against on a split vote, all 
members favored the use of certain policy instruments, including open 
m a r k e t operations, to work toward a tightening of monetary conditions. 

1/30/69 
-10-
It was understood that the staff would edit the proposed Board policy 
record entry with those comments in mind prior to further consideration 
of the entry by the Board. 
Subject to the aforementioned considerations relating to 
points that would be borne in mind upon final review, the Committee 
Policy record entry for December 17, 1968, was then approved unani-
mously with the understanding that it would be distributed to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents for possible further comments, that the Board's 
staff would study it again in the light of today's discussion, and 
that the entry would of course be brought back to the Board prior to 
release. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Molony, Hexter, and Johnson withdrew at this point. 
Labor relations. Governor Sherrill made a progress report 
the search for an appropriate person to serve as a consultant in 
connection with the formulation of a Federal Reserve labor relations 
Policy. He explained why certain names mentioned earlier had been 
eliminated from consideration and indicated that, if the Board con-
curred, an approach would be made to Judge Samuel R. Pierce, Jr., of 
tlle law firm of Battle, Fowler, Stokes & Kheel, New York City, to 
d etermine whether Judge Pierce would be interested in undertaking such 
a n assignment. 

3<?3 
1/30/69 
-11-
t ; j .it 
•
 f
 
^ 
Other Board members concurred in the course of action 
suggested by Governor Sherrill. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
VVi 
V i 
i 
^V" I > > 
Secretary 

3«4 
Item No. 1 
1/30/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
the Matter of the Application of 
£IRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
H aines City, Florida, 
approval of acquisition of 80 per 
n t or more of the voting shares of 
plorid
 B a n k 
3 n d 
T r u s t 
C o m P
a n y »
 
T a m P
a > 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e C t i o n 3(a)(3) of the Banking Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 8^
2(a)(3)) a n cj s e ct:ion 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Florida Bancorporation, 
Hal 
n e s City, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi-
°
n of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Marine Bank and 
T t U s t Company, Tampa, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
V ritt 
c e n notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Com-
S sioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
Deputy Commissioner of Banking recommended approval of the 
a P p l * c a t t o n . 

- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 3, 1968 (33 Federal Register 14799), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or 
0>) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such 
tirr»e shall be extended by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 30th day of January, 1969. 
- J 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson 
and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
" 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C . 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, 
Haines City, Florida, 
f o r approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Commercial Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S ection 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l 842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Florida Bancorporation, 
H a l * e s City, Florida, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisi 
tl°n of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Commercial Bank 
o f Tampa, Tampa, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Florida Com-
^ssioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
e Deputy Commissioner of Banking recommended approval of the 
aPPlication, 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 3, 1968 (33 Federal Register 14799), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall hot be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0*der unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 30th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
' Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson arid 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
' 
: 
' 
• 
•'t. 
• 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
7
 : V 
, 
• • 
• 
/ 
_ 
. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION, HAINES CITY, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
MARINE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY AND OF COMMERCIAL 
BANK OF TAMPA, BOTH OF TAMPA, FLORIDA 
3^8 
STATEMENT 
First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, Florida 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of (1) Marine Bank and Trust Company ("Marine") and (2) 
Commercial Bank of Tampa ("Commercial"), both of Tampa, Florida. 
Applicant controls 11 banks with aggregate total deposits 
1/ 
approximately $111.9 million. 
Marine, operating one office in 
• 
the downtown district of Tampa, has total deposits of approximately 
$87.1 million. Commercial, an affiliate of Marine, operates one 
office, with total deposits of approximately $5 million, in an 
industrial district of Tampa, about 5 miles east of Marine. 
y 
Banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted, 
and refer to insured commercial banks. 
•11 

m 
v y.-u-' 
•V//' 
v'-Y 
•ft 
i ; 
399 
- 2 -
• r?
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the two 
applications was given to the Florida Commissioner of Banking, and 
his views and recommendation were requested. : The Deputy Commissioner 
recommended approval of both applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
of banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
• • 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
• . 
J 
. 
' 
• 
... , 
I 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
. • >- • " . 
. • 
A 
. 
' . 
:|r
. 
. 
. 
. 
.
.
.
.
.
.
.
. 
public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meet-
• '* < 
. , * 
W. 
• ' ir 
-
 
;i
ing the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
& 
f
 ; 
x 
V 
5 1 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and*.,, 
. 
needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in Florida control approximately 
• ijl
maM

400 
- 3 -
35 per cent of total bank deposits in the State. Applicant is not 
now one of the 10 largest. However, after acquisition of Marine, 
Applicant would rank eighth and would control 2 per cent of total 
bank deposits in the State. Acquisition of Commercial would have 
°nly a negligible effect on Applicant's market share. 
On the basis of total deposits, Marine is the third largest 
of 24 banks located in Hillsborough County and ranks third among the 
2/ 
17 banks in its primary service area, 
which is the City of Tampa. 
Commercial ranks twenty-first among the 24 banks in Hillsborough 
County and is the only bank in its designated primary service area, 
which is described as a relatively small geographic section of East 
Tampa extending one mile west, two miles north, four miles east and 
eight miles south of the bank's premises, and containing an esti-
mated 21,000 residents and an additional 5,000 persons employed by 
industry. The bulk of Commercial's deposits are estimated to be 
derived from local industry in the bank's service area and persons 
employed there. Each of the banks proposed to be acquired is 
3 3 miles distant from the closest of Applicant's present subsidiaries, 
none of which is located in Hillsborough County. 
The data presented reflect that Applicant's acquisition of 
the two banks involved would not have a substantial impact upon the 
degree of concentration of banking resources in the State, within 
Hillsborough County, or in any of the relevant service areas. On 
**" 
The area from which Applicant estimates that Marine derives more 
than 80 per cent of deposits of individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations, about 78 per cent of the bank's commercial loans, 
and almost all of its instalment loans. 

-4-
•lOl 
the record before the Board, it is concluded that the proposed 
affiliation would not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance 
of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing or potential competition, the 
Board finds that these considerations present no bar to approval 
of the application. The record shows that there is no meaningful 
competition between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and either of 
the banks proposed to be acquired. Nor is there any reason to believe 
that any would be likely to develop, if the acquisitions herein were 
not consummated. Although Marine and Commercial are only a little 
over 5 miles apart, there is no effective competition between them 
and little prospect of any developing. The record shows that 
Commercial was organized in 1961 by officers and directors of Marine 
and the banks are affiliated through interlocking stockholder 
interests. Applicant states that all officers of Commercial have 
been recruited from or through Marine; and Commercial relies on 
Marine for operational support and for many services, including 
trust, travel, international trade, money order and other services 
that Commercial could not afford to supply by itself.r I < 
Consummation of the proposal herein would not have any 
significant effect upon the competitive position of Marine or 
> , 

Commercial in their respective primary service areas. There appears 
to be no reasonable likelihood that the acquisitions herein would 
* 
preclude future competition in any relevant area. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed 
transactions would not substantially lessen competition, tEnd to 
create a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in any 
relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries 
is generally satisfactory. Management is considered competent and 
Prospects favorable. 
. ;
 
;
 r . : 
' J., i 
The prospects of Marine are also considered favorable and 
its management is judged to be satisfactory. The addition of 
Marine to Applicant's system will be of benefit to the smaller 
^anks in the holding company group. Applicant's stated program 
for 
putting additional capital into Marine and certain of the 
Present subsidiaries in the system will add further strength to 
the holding company group. The financial condition, management and 
Prospects of Commercial, particularly in affiliation with Marine, 
a r e deemed to be satisfactory. In sum, the banking factors are 
consistent with and lend some weight towards approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The 
n«eds of Marine's service area are adequately served and no new 

-6-
services are planned by Applicant, Nor is it anticipated that 
consummation of the proposal herein would provide services for 
Commercial's service area that are not already available in that 
community. 
Acquisition by Applicant of a full service city bank of 
the size of Marine would result in many of Marine's specialized 
• 
4 . , . . 
• 1V . 
services becoming available to the smaller communities now served 
hy Applicant's current subsidiaries which are shown on the record 
to be largely country banks operating in rural and semi-urban com-
^unities. The affiliation would strengthen the smaller subsidiaries 
and increase their competitive vigor. Accordingly, considerations 
under this factor are consistent with and weigh somewhat in favor 
of approval. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
f°rth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
''.•I'...-, 
January 30, 1969. 

Item No. 2 
1/30/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company, 
Tallahassee, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National Securities 
Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
• 
* 
more of the voting shares of The Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company, 
Tallahassee, Florida, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
fche Florida Commissioner of Banking of the application and requested 
his views and recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval 
o f the application. 

405 
- 3 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 23, 1968 (33 Federal Register 15685), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. Time for filing comments and views has ex-
pired and all those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
C onsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
°f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 30th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
• 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

406 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, JACKSONVILLE, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE TALLAHASSEE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, TALLAHASSEE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors} pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C; lG42(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Tallahassee Bank and Trust Company, Tallahassee Florida ("Tallahassee 
Bank"); 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
r equired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Florida 
Commissioner of Banking of receipt of the application; and requested 
his views and recommendation thereon. The Commissioner recommended 
approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would reeult in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 

I 
fiim I 
407 
- 2 -
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consid-
eration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, the 
fourth largest banking organization and the fourth largest of 11 bank 
holding companies in the State of Florida, presently controls 13 banks 
1/ 
Vlth total deposits of $428 million. 
Acquisition of Tallahassee Bank, 
^hich has deposits of about $38 million, would result in control by 
Applicant of 4.7 per cent of total deposits in the State, an increase 
°f .4 per cent. Applicant's ranking relative to other holding companies 
a^d large banking organizations in the State would not be affected. 
Tallahassee Bank is located in the City of Tallahassee, Leon 
County, Florida. The closest of Applicant's subsidiary banks to 
Tallahassee are located 168 miles east, in Jacksonville. There appears 
to be no significant competition between Tallahassee Bank and any of 
y 
Unless otherwise noted, all banking data are as of June 29, 1968, 
a djusted to reflect all holding company formations and acquisitions 
aPproved by the Board to date. 

the present subsidiary banks, and little prospect that such competition 
would develop in the future in view of the distances involved, the 
number of intervening banks, and a State law which prohibits branching. 
Tallahassee Bank is the largest of seven banks in Leon 
County, all of which are located in Tallahassee. Tuo of the other 
hanks are only slightly smaller, however, with the overall size 
superiority of Tallahassee Bank more than accounted for by its larger 
volume of correspondent bank deposits. In addition, the smaller of 
these two banks is affiliated by common ownership with the two smallest 
hanks in the city; the aggregate deposits of the three affiliated 
hanks are slightly larger than those of Tallahassee Bank. It does not 
appear that consummation of the proposed acquisition would have undue 
adverse effects on the viability or competitive effectiveness of any 
competing bank. 
In light of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would 
not result in a monopoly or 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monop-
the business of banking in any area. It does not appear that 
°Uze 
e proposed acquisition would substantially lessen competition, tend to 
cteate a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant's financial condition is satisfactory, its management is 
xP
erienced and capable, and its prospects appear favorable. 

Tallahassee Bank also is in^satisfactory financial condition 
and has competent management and generally favorable prospects. Appli-
cant alleges that Tallahassee Bank, while not immediately faced with 
significant problems of management succession, will shortly face the 
necessity of finding suitable replacements for its Chairman and Presi-
dent, who are presently at or near the ..usual retirement age. While 
Applicant undoubtedly could assist in resolving any such problems of 
management succession as may develop, that consideration provides 
little weight in favor of approval of the application, since Tallahassee 
Bank, based upon its size and the attractiveness of its location, would 
appear capable of obtaining qualified replacements without such 
assistance. 
Considerations bearing upon the banking factors are regarded 
as consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consum-
mation of the proposed acquisition would not affect the convenience 
°r needs of the communities served by Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Tallahassee, which has an estimated population of 61,000, is 
the capital city of Florida. A major portion of the personal income 
in Leon County derives from the State government and two State 
universities, with industry being primarily of a service nature;;:. The 
a r >ea is presently provided with an adequate level of banking services 

by the seven banks located there. Consummation of the present proposal 
will not make available any major new services, but will permit some 
improvements in Tallahassee Bank's trust service offering and will 
provide the area with an alternative charge card plan, a service 
presently offered by only one bank in the area. 
These considerations, while providing only limited supporting 
weight, are consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
January 30. 1969. 

411 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item N o . 3 
1/30/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 30, 1969. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of November 26, 1968, and that of The Chase Manhattan Bank (National 
Association) of October 30, 1968, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent for your Corporation to purchase and hold all of the shares of 
a company to be formed under the laws of a State, dependency, or 
insular possession of the United States ("Mortgage Company") at a 
cost of approximately $4,000,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board 
also approves the purchase and holding of shares of Mortgage Company 
in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Mortgage Company by your Corporation ("CMOBC") is granted 
subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in Mortgage Company if Mortgage Company 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Mortgage Company estab-
lishes any branch or agency or takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in the United States or else-
where, in any manner, which at the time would not be 
permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will cause Mortgage Company or any subsidiary thereof 
(a) to permit examiners appointed by the Board of Govern-
ors to examine Mortgage Company or any subsidiary thereof, 
and (b) to furnish the Board with such reports as it may 
require from time to time; 

Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
- 2 -
412 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Mort-
gage Company be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Mortgage Company 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That CMOBC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Mortgage Company at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of Mort-
gage Company after giving effect to the elimination of 
all known losses. 
The Board also grants its consent for CMOBC to continue to 
hold the stock of Mortgage Company after Mortgage Company (a) purchases 
and holds all of the stock (or acquires the assets and assumes the lia-
bilities) of Housing Investment Corporation ("HIC"), a Florida corpora-
tion conducting a real estate mortgage financing and servicing business 
outside the States of the United States, at a cost of approximately 
$11,000,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter, and (b) issues $7,000,000 of nonconvertible, sub-
ordinated debenture bonds. The Board also approves the purchase and 
holding of shares of HIC by Mortgage Company in excess of the applicable 
limitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) (12 U.S.C„615(c)) 
of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K . 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of HIC by Mortgage Company is granted subject to the same condi-
tions prescribed in the second paragraph of this letter, except for the 
substitution of Mortgage Company for CMOBC and HIC for Mortgage Company. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of Mortgage Company and HIC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that any 
foreign loans and investments by Mortgage Company, or any subsidiary 
thereof, will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
