FR 609 
Minutes for 
M a r c h 7> 1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

800 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 7, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, Williams, 
Eckert, Keir, Baker, Burns, Ettin, Fry, and 
Kelty of the Division of Research and Statis-
tics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Hersey, Norwood, Wood, Gemmill, 
Pizer, Altmann, Bradshaw, Bryant, Gekker, and 
Stem of the Division of International Finance 
Money market review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review, including today reports by Mr. Kelty on the Government securi-
ties market, by Mr. Fry on bank credit developments, by Mr. Ettin on 
the corporate and municipal bond markets, and by Mr. Stem on foreign 

. 801 
3/7/69 
-2-
exchange market developments. Copies of the documents distributed in 
connection with the review have been placed in the Board's files. 
Members of the staff other than Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Brill, Solomon (Adviser), Molony, Ghiardi, and Hersey then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on 
March 6, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
French situation. Governor Daane stated that he and Mr. 
Solomon had discussed with Treasury officials yesterday evening, at 
the Treasury's request, the possibility that the French might raise 
the question of devaluation of the franc at the regular monthly meet-
ing of central bank governors to be held at Basle this week end. 
According to present plans the Federal Reserve would be represented 
at that meeting only by Vice President MacLaury of the New York Reserve 
Bank, although Mr. Brill would also be in Basle for a meeting of econo-
mists to be held at the Bank for International Settlements next week. 
It appeared to be the Treasury position that the U.S. should oppose 
any unilateral French move at this time, particularly one going beyond 
the range that had been discussed at Bonn several months ago, which 
might lead to a series of moves by other countries. If a move on the 

802 
3/7/69 
-19-
part of the French nevertheless occurred, the Treasury felt that the 
U.S. should take a position that other countries should stand still. 
On the question of the need for additional System representation at 
Basle, Governor Daane understood that Under Secretary Volcker had 
contacted Chairman Martin, whose reaction was negative. Governor Daane 
concurred, although he felt that a final decision should be held in 
abeyance in the light of developments during the day. 
Governor Daane added that according to the most recent informa-
tion the French franc problem, which reflected the current wage 
negotiations in that country, might be easing. He then turned to Mr. 
Solomon, who commented further on the situation. Mr. Solomon noted 
that French officials apparently had thought that the wage negotiations 
would be relatively easy because of the substantial concessions made 
last year. He also noted the possibility that French officials might 
be talking devaluation for internal purposes. In the meantime, however, 
there was considerable pressure on the franc and also on sterling, and 
this could be expected to build up the longer the wage negotiations 
stretched out. As Governor Daane had said, the Treasury position was 
that the U.S. should oppose a unilateral move on the part of the 
French. It seemed unlikely that the Germans were ready to revalue the 
mark, although they might be coming closer to that point should it 
become necessary for the French to move. If the subject should come 
up at Basle, the Treasury position was that other countries should be 

803 
3/7/69 
-19-
urged to stand still and that it should be made clear that ample credit 
facilities were available to the French. 
Foreign credit restraint program. Governor Brimmer referred 
to the probable need for the Board to be ready to announce changes in 
its foreign credit restraint program guidelines around March 14, in 
order to coordinate with a general announcement on foreign credit con-
trols expected to be made by the Administration. He noted that the 
last of his series of regional meetings with bankers was scheduled to 
be held in Boston on March 11 and said that he would distribute a 
memorandum containing recommendations on which the Board could focus 
on March 12 or 13. 
Governor Brimmer then reviewed tentative conclusions to which 
he and the staff had come regarding changes in the Federal Reserve 
program that would be appropriate. He had seen nothing, however, to 
suggest to him that basic changes should be made. It was Governor 
Brimmer's understanding that the Administration announcement probably 
would include reference, among other things, to the Federal Reserve 
guidelines and that the Administration would like to describe the 
total package in terms of relaxation or liberalization. He would 
personally like to minimize that flavor. 
After some discussion, during which members of the Board 
mentioned certain analyses that they would like to see included in 
Governor Brimmer's memorandum, it was understood that the Board would 

6 
3/7/69 
-19-
be prepared to consider on March 12 or 13 a memorandum containing 
Governor Brimmer's recommendations. 
Governor Robertson expressed his understanding that there was 
some opinion within the Treasury that the foreign credit restraint 
program should be dropped, on the ground that such a move was feasible 
only during a period of tight money, with the proviso that the program 
could be reinstated later if necessary. Governor Brimmer and Mr. 
Solomon reported that they were unaware of the existence of such an 
opinion within the Treasury, and they expressed their belief that it 
was not a majority view. Governor Brimmer stated reasons why he would 
oppose a suspension of the Federal Reserve program at this time, to 
which he added that in his view it would not be practicable to think 
in terms of reinstating the same program at a later date. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Unionization and collective bargaining. Governor Sherrill 
noted that there had been distributed to the members of the Board and 
the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents a paper from Judge Samuel R. 
Pierce, Jr., dated February 28, 1969, setting forth a proposed posi-
tion for the Federal Reserve System with respect to unionization 
activities by Reserve Bank employees. He reported that the special 
committee consisting of himself and Presidents Galusha, Hayes, Francis, 
and Swan had reviewed the Pierce paper on March 3 and were in complete 
agreement with its contents as a preliminary working paper. The 

805 
3/7/69 
-19-
Presidents had discussed the matter briefly at their Conference session 
later in the day, and all Presidents were asked to forward any comments 
or suggestions they had on the paper as soon as they had an opportunity 
to review it with their staffs. Governor Sherrill further reported 
that he had arranged for Mr. Pierce to meet with the Board at 9:30 a.m. 
on March 10 to discuss the paper. Thereafter, any further meetings or 
action on the proposal could be arranged in the light of comments 
received. 
In the meantime, the San Francisco Reserve Bank had a scheduled 
deadline of March 10, 1969, by which to make some response to the union 
which had initiated the organizational discussions. In view of the 
progress of discussions within the System, Governor Sherrill proposed 
that the San Francisco Bank be authorized to indicate to the union that 
there could be a representational election among the Bank's employees 
if suitable conditions could be agreed upon, and that active efforts 
to work out such conditions were proceeding. The Board was agreeable 
to such a statement. 
Matters involving Board staff. Governor Sherrill informed the 
Board that he had received the resignation of Mr. Lawrence H. Byrne, 
Jr., Director of the Division of Data Processing, intended to be 
effective the end of March.—/ He outlined the various considerations 
which Mr. Byrne stated had led to his decision, and indicated that he 
1./ Subsequently worked out to become effective the close of business 
April 4, 1969. 

806 
3/7/69 
-19-
felt some reorganization of the interfacing between Data Processing 
and the Division of Research and Statistics would be advisable in 
connection with Mr. Byrne's replacement. 
Governor Sherrill reported that he had reviewed a number of 
possible candidates to succeed Mr. Byrne as Director. On the basis 
of that review, he believed the best available choice was Mr. Jerold 
E. Slocum, presently with Packard Bell Electronics, Los Angeles, 
California. He summarized Mr. Slocum1s background, and the strengths 
and weaknesses which he might bring to the Board assignment. While 
Mr. Slocum was a comparatively young man, Governor Sherrill felt he 
had already demonstrated the kind of organizational and leadership 
abilities that were needed to insure the progress of the Board's data 
processing function. He reported that Mr. Slocum had been introduced 
to Chairman Martin and Vice Chairman Robertson, and interviewed by 
Mr. Johnson as well as himself, and he understood that each had been 
favorably impressed. He suggested that he be authorized to offer the 
position of Director to Mr. Slocum, at a salary to be negotiated up 
to a level of $30,000 (taking account of the expected forthcoming 
realignment of official salaries). 
After discussion, the Board gave its approval for a $27,000 
initial offer to Mr. Slocum, with the understanding that he would be 
included in the forthcoming realignment of official salaries 
T7 Appointment subsequently made effective April 7, 1969, with 
annual salary at the rate of $27,000. 

807 
3/7/69 
-19-
Question was raised to the effect of hiring Mr. Slocum on the 
status of his brother, Mr. Kenneth R. Slocum, currently employed in 
the Division of Data Processing. Present Board rules generally pro-
hibited the simultaneous employment of close relatives. It was 
generally agreed that such a rule could be too strict when it denied 
employment of talented individuals who could serve the convenience 
of the Board, and that a review of this general policy would be 
appropriate. With respect to Mr. Kenneth Slocum, while he had an 
employment opportunity elsewhere in the System, Board members were 
agreeable to his being reassigned to some appropriate function outside 
the scope of data processing. 
Several members of the staff who had attended the earlier 
part of this meeting then returned to the room, along with the 
following: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Lynch and Mertz of the Legal Division 

8C8 
3/7/69 
-9-
Messrs. Ducy and Hanweck, Mrs. Sette, and Mrs. 
Small of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, and Guth, and Miss McShane 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Central National Bank in 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, with Central Bank of Chicago, National 
Association, also of Chicago, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion stated that con-
summation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Channel Islands State Bank, Ventura, California, into Wells 
Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Little, if any, competition would be eliminated 
by the proposed merger of Channel Islands State Bank, 
Ventura, into Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, 
San Francisco. However, consummation of the trans-
action would eliminate some potential competition in 
view of Wells Fargo's recent extension of its market 
area into southern California through de novo branch-
ing. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competi-
tion would be slightly adverse. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 

809 
3/7/69 
-19-
Item No. 
Letter to Mercantile City Bank, Atlanta, 
1 
Georgia, approving its application for 
admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to Sully County Bank, Onida, South 
2 
Dakota, approving its application for 
admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Letter to National Bank of Commerce in 
3 
Memphis, Memphis, Tennessee, authorizing 
it to accept drafts or bills of exchange 
drawn for the purpose of furnishing 
do1lar exchange. 
Letter to Commerce Union Bank, Nashville, 
4 
Tennessee, waiving the submission of a 
trust asset survey report form for 1968. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
5 
Cleveland relating to the status under 
the Rules and Regulations of the Retire-
ment System of the Federal Reserve Banks 
of an officer of that Bank (Mr. Mann) who 
had been appointed Assistant Director of 
the Bureau of the Budget. 
Branch application (Item No. 6). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated February 26, 1969, from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation relating to the application of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust 
Company, Egg Harbor City, New Jersey, to establish a branch in Mullica 
Township. The Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia recommended approval, 
while the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial. 
The Division found all factors usually considered in connection with 
branch applications to be satisfactory. However, the two principal 

810 
3/7/69 
-19-
executive officers of the bank were under indictment by a Federal 
Grand Jury for alleged irregularities in connection with certain 
loans made by the bank, and the Division based its recommendation on 
the view that expansion plans of the bank should await the final out-
come of the pending suits, one civil and one criminal. 
Governor Maisel raised the question whether it was appropriate 
to penalize an institution in such circumstances. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that, while the recommendation of the 
Division might be interpreted as a penalty, another interpretation 
would be that the fact that two of the bank's officers were under 
indictment gave rise to the question whether qualified management 
would be available to the bank at some future date if the two officers 
should be convicted or were otherwise unable to continue to act in a 
managerial capacity. 
Governor Maisel inquired as to the likelihood, in view of the 
normal judicial processes, of a management gap coming about suddenly, 
and Mr. O'Connell agreed that such a situation was unlikely. 
The staff then responded to questions having to do with the 
possible extent of liability on the part of the bank if the executive 
officers were convicted. It appeared that losses to the bank, if any, 
would be relatively minor in relation to capital funds. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the real issue ran to 
the condition of the bank, which appeared sound. Unless the staff 

811 
3/7/69 
-19-
advanced a supportable argument that, by reason of the indictments, 
the growth and expansion of the bank should be stopped when all other 
factors seemed favorable, he was not prepared to agree that the branch 
application should be denied. The basic question seemed to be whether 
or not the officers concerned should be removed. If it was the deci-
sion of the Board that no such action should be taken, then the 
position of the bank should not be frozen. 
Members of the staff noted that the question of removal of the 
officers had been raised previously. On the basis of recent examina-
tions of the bank, the Reserve Bank and the Board's staff had recom-
mended against such action. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that if it had been 
decided that the officers should not be removed, then the Board should 
not stand in the way of normal expansion by the bank. 
The application of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company for a 
branch in Mullica Township was then approved unanimously. A copy of 
the letter sent to the member bank is attached as Item No. 6. 
Application of Depositors Corporation (Item No. 7). There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated February 12, 1969, relating to the 
application of Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine, to acquire more 
than 51 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Houlton, Houlton, Maine, the funds for the purchase to be obtained 
through a short-term bank loan, with negotiations said to be under way 

812 
3/7/69 
-19-
with an insurance company and others to obtain a long-term commitment 
sufficient to satisfy the short-term obligation and other future 
capital needs. 
The memorandum commented on the overall capital structure of 
the holding company and noted that the Board had previously taken the 
position that incurrence of debt by a holding company in connection 
with an acquisition was generally undesirable. On the basis of avail-
able information it was probable that the acquisition debt of Depositors 
Corporation would be substantial. The Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation therefore suggested that the applicant be apprised of the Board's 
general position with respect to indebtedness and requested to clarify 
its financing plans. Depositors Corporation would also be advised that 
the application would not be considered as officially filed pending 
receipt of additional information. Attached to the memorandum was a 
draft of letter to Depositors Corporation. 
Following comments by Mr. Lyon, Governor Maisel inquired 
whether the problem had been analyzed in terms of effect upon profits, 
especially in the longer run. 
Mr. Solomon recalled that the Board had not opposed the incur-
rence of all indebtedness by banks or by holding companies, particularly 
where debt was incurred by a holding company for the purpose of strength-
ening the capital of a subsidiary bank. However, if a holding company 
used up its borrowing power for acquisition purposes, its future role 
in support of its banks would be limited. 

. . 
8 i 3 
3/7/69 
-14-
Governor Maisel observed that he would object to any flat 
statement that debt should never be substituted for equity, and 
Governor Sherrill noted that the question Governor Maisel had raised 
was one that would, as a general proposition, require considerable 
study before answers could be developed. He suggested that considera-
tion of the pending case proceed independently of such a study, the 
need for which should be borne in mind. Governor Robertson commented 
that the matter would have to be considered further in the light of 
whatever additional information was furnished by the holding company 
in this instance. 
Members of the staff suggested that the proposed letter make 
clear the reasons for not considering the application officially filed 
at this time, and approval then was given to a letter to Depositors 
Corporation in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Weekly summary of banking and credit measures. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated February 28, 1969, from the Division of 
Research and Statistics relating to a proposed weekly release of bank-
ing and credit measures. The format of the release had been developed 
by the Division in consultation with the staff of the Trading Desk and 
public relations personnel of the Board and the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York. The purpose of the release was to present a variety of 
data relevant to understanding the impact of monetary policy on finan-
cial markets, thereby reducing the tendency of the market and the press 

3/7/69 
-14-
to rely on any single indicator, such as free reserves, the Federal 
funds rate, or the money supply. Attached to the memorandum was a 
draft of release. 
In commenting on the proposal, Mr. Axilrod stated that it 
would be possible to begin the weekly releases immediately. However, 
it was estimated that development of a seasonally adjusted weekly 
series on nonborrowed reserves and total reserves could be completed 
within two or three months, perhaps sooner. Those data, together 
with the seasonally adjusted series on total member bank deposits, 
could be substituted for seasonally unadjusted reserve aggregates 
and year-ago comparisons. Accordingly, he recommended that the Board 
approve the press release in principle, with the understanding that 
initial publication would be deferred until such time as the seasonally 
adjusted series were available. 
Following discussion, during which members of the Board indi-
cated that they would not object to a modest delay, the press release 
was unanimously approved in principle, it being understood that 
initial publication would be contemplated within a period of about 
four weeks. 
Review of operations in domestic securities. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Molony dated February 28, 1969, to 
which was attached a review of open market operations in domestic 
securities in 1968 prepared by the Manager of the System Open Market 
Account and proposed for inclusion in the Board's Annual Report for 1968. 

815 
3/7/69 
-19-
Following discussion, the review was approved unanimously for 
inclusion in the Annual Report, with the understanding that any sugges-
tions for editorial-type changes that Board members might have upon 
more thorough study would be transmitted by them to Mr. Molony. 
Consulting architect at Philadelphia (Item No. 8). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations dated March 4, 1969, recommending that the Board inter-
pose no objection to the Philadelphia Reserve Bank's proposal to retain 
a consulting architect (Mr. Pietro Belluschi) to assist with its new 
building program at a cost of approximately $1,500 a month for a 
period of from two to four years. 
Attached to the memorandum was correspondence from the Reserve 
Bank relating to the proposed arrangement. The material also included 
a summary of the agreement between the Bank and the Redevelopment 
Authority of the City of Philadelphia, together with a letter express-
ing the Reserve Bank's intent to purchase and develop Parcel 3A in 
the Independence Mall Urban Renewal Area. 
Governor Brimmer commented favorably on the proposed building 
site, which he had inspected during a visit to the Reserve Bank earlier 
in the week. 
Question was raised by Governor Maisel as to whether the 
Reserve Bank had actually entered into an agreement with the Redevelop-
ment Authority, and it was understood that Mr. Farre11 would make 
inquiry as to the status of the matter. 

_ 
816 
3/7/69 
-17-
Secretary's Note: Mr. Farrell subsequently 
ascertained that a letter of intent to pur-
chase and develop the specified section in 
the renewal area had been transmitted to 
the Redevelopment Authority. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the recommendation of the 
Division that no objection be interposed to the hiring of the architec-
tural consultant. A copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve Bank is 
attached as Item No. 8. 
Report by Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery (Item No. 9). 
There had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations dated February 17, 1969, transmitting the 
report by the accounting firm of Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery 
covering their review for the year 1968 of procedures followed by the 
Board's examiners in examinations of the Federal Reserve Banks. The 
review, dated January 31, 1969, concluded that the examinations per-
formed by the Board's staff were effective in accomplishing the 
purposes stated in the Board's directive of April 1, 1964, and adequate 
in light of generally accepted auditing or examination standards that 
would be applicable to such an examination. However, the review set 
forth certain recommendations that the firm felt would further improve 
the examination procedures and reports. The Division memorandum 
stated that the recommendations had been discussed with the Chief 
Federal Reserve Examiner, that several of the recommendations had 
already been put into effect, and that the remainder would be imple-
mented in the near future. 

817 
3/7/69 
-19-
Following comments by Mr. Walcutt, Governor Sherrill mentioned 
the shortage of personnel on the examining force, which had been a 
source of concern for some time. He stated that in discussing the 
report with the auditors question had been raised whether there might 
be some relationship between the per diem paid the examiners and the 
problem of bringing the examining staff up to full force. This ques-
tion was under study. 
The report of the accounting firm was then accepted. 
The question of retention of the firm for the purpose of per-
forming a procedural review in 1969 was referred to Governor Sherrill. 
Secretary's Note: A copy of a letter 
subsequently sent to Lybrand, Ross Bros. 
& Montgomery requesting that firm to 
continue its services for the year 1969 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
Window dressing (Items 10 and 11). Mr. Holland stated that 
there had been an apparent outbreak of "window dressing" activities 
in the Dallas Federal Reserve District, and that the President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had written to the large banks in the 
major cities of the District urging them to refrain from the practice. 
The extent to which window dressing might have been revived in other 
Districts was not known, but it seemed advisable to remind the other 
Federal Reserve Banks of the desirability of continuing surveillance 
to assure that the practice did not again become widespread. Accord-
ingly, it was proposed that a letter be sent to President Coldwell 

818 
3/7/69 
-19-
commending him on the program conducted in his District and that 
copies be furnished to each of the other Federal Reserve Banks. 
There was agreement with the suggested procedure. Copies of 
the letters subsequently sent to President Coldwell and to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents are attached as Items 10 and 11, respectively. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

819 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
O 
Item No. 1 
3/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Mercantile City Bank, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Mercantile City Bank, Atlanta, Georgia, for stock in 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
It is the Board's understanding that the capital funds of your 
bank are to be increased by $500,000 within three months after admission 
to membership and that further appropriate increases in capital funds 
will accompany deposit growth. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regu-
lation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof. 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 

Board of Directors 
- 2 -
Acceptarice of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required 
reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find member-
ship in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve Bank 
Pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad to assist 
you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve System and 
at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means for making 
the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

'•f^rsE^ 
821 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Sully County Bank, 
Onida, South Dakota. 
Gentlemen: 
57564 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Sully County Bank, Onida, South Dakota, for stock in 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, subject to the numbered con-
ditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regu-
lation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
1s made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 

822 
Board of Directors 
-2 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank 
stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find member-
ship in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve Bank 
pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad to assist 
you in establishing your relationship with the Federal Reserve System and 
at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means for making 
the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

823 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1969. 
National Bank of Commerce 
in Memphis, 
Memphis, Tennessee. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
authorizes your bank to accept drafts or bills of exchange drawn for 
the purpose of furnishing dollar exchange as required by the usages 
°f trade in such countries, dependencies, or insular possessions of 
the United States as may have been designated by the Board of Gov-
ernors, subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and the Board's Regulation C. 
Enclosed is a list of the countries with respect to which 
the Board of Governors has found that the usages of trade require 
the furnishing of dollar exchange. 
The foregoing authorization has been given with the 
understanding that the foreign loans and investments of your bank 
will be made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign 
lending and investment activities of your bank and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Your attention is also directed to the fact that dollar exchange 
acceptance financing does not represent export credit. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

Countries Approved by the Board 
with Respect to Dollar Exchange Acceptances—' 
"The Board has designated the following as countries 
whose usages of trade require the furnishing of dollar exchange 
so that member banks may accept drafts drawn upon them by banks 
or bankers in such countries: 
Australia, New Zealand, and otherZ/ Australasian 
dependencies; Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, British 
Guiana 2/, British Honduras, Chile, Colombia, Costa 
Rica, Dutch East Indies hJ, Dutch Guiana V , Ecuador, 
French Guiana, French West Indies, Guatemala, 
Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Puerto 
Rico, Salvador 
Santo DomingoZ/, Trinidad§/, 
Uruguay and Venezuela." 
1/ Source: Interpretations of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System (as of January 1, 1961), p. 
2/ Now delete "other." 
3/ Now Guyana. 
4/ Now the Republic of Indonesia 
5/ Now Surinam. 
6/ Now El Salvador. 
7/ Now the Dominican Republic. 
8/ Now Trinidad and Tobago. 

BCDARD D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
3/7/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
fURE^P* 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 10, 1969. 
Mr. C. D. Rippy, 
Senior Vice President & 
Trust Officer, 
Commerce Union Bank, 
400 Union Street, 
Nashville, Tennessee 37219. 
Dear Mr. Rippy: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 19, 1969, 
addressed to Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta. In that letter you state you are converting 
to data processing equipment and state that it will be practically 
impossible to compile the trust asset report for 1968. 
The Board has considered your problem and has waived the 
requirement that Commerce Union Bank file a 1968 trust asset survey 
report. 
Very truly yours, 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary. 

p • 
J?: 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/7/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1969. 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
Reference is made to your letter of February 13, 1969, 
regarding Mr. Maurice Mann, Vice President and General Economist 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
The Board of Governors agrees that Mr. Mann's service 
as Assistant Director of the Bureau of the Budget, beginning 
March 1 1969, is for a purpose deemed in the public interest 
within the meaning of Section 5A of the Rules and Regulations of 
the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, the resolu-
tions adopted and approved under such Section, and the Board s 
letter of August 4, 1961 (S-1802). 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

8 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
3/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, 
Egg Harbor City, New Jersey. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the establishment of a branch by Egg Harbor Bank and 
Trust Company, Egg Harbor City, New Jersey, on the north side 
of White Horse Pike (U.S. Route 30) in Mullica Township, Atlantic 
County, New Jersey, approximately one-fourth mile east of 
Hammonton, New Jersey, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's capital position is satisfactory, that the pro-
posed branch will serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

\CL 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 30 
3/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 7, 1969. 
Mr. Wallace M. Haselton, President, 
Depositors Corporation, 
284 Water Street, 
Augusta, Maine. 04330 
Dear Mr. Haselton: 
This refers to your Company's application to acquire more 
than 51 per cent of the voting shares of The First National Bank of 
Houlton, Houlton, Maine, which is undergoing our usual preliminary 
review and is not yet considered as being officially filed. This 
review discloses that you propose to acquire the Houlton Bank for 
cash and that the funds for the purchase are to be obtained by a 
short-term bank loan of up to $3.6 million. The application also 
states that negotiations are under way with an insurance company 
and others to obtain a long-term commitment sufficient to satisfy 
the short-term obligation and other future capital needs. 
The Board has taken the position that it can sometimes be 
appropriate for a bank holding company to incur reasonable indebt-
edness in order to strengthen the capital of one or more of its 
subsidiary banks. However, debt incurred in order to acquire an 
additional bank is generally undesirable since it limits the future 
ability of the holding company to furnish such assistance to its 
subsidiary banks as may be needed. For this reason, it is believed 
that if short -term borrowing is used to facilitate the financing of 
such an acquisition as you propose, its use should generally be 
limited to situations in which assurance can be given the Board that 
such borrowing will be replaced with equity capital within a reason-
able length of time. 
Inasmuch as the application does not make clear the type 
or amount of the "long-term commitment" that you are seeking, it is 
suggested that the application be amended to make clear the proposed 
plans for financing, and that serious consideration be given to the 
use of equity financing as a permanent source of funds with which to 
acquire The First National Bank of Houlton. 

Mr. Wallace M. Haselton 
- 2 -
829 
Under the Board's procedures, when an application has been 
accepted as "filed" copies thereof are sent to the appropriate super-
visory authority, or authorities, with a request for recommendation 
and views. In order to avoid, in this case, forwarding to the Comp-
troller of the Currency your original application, and later any 
amended application that you may submit, pending receipt from you 
of advice of an amendatory financing proposal responsive to the 
comments above, the Corporation's application to acquire The First 
National Bank of Houlton will not be considered officially filed. 
Very truly yours, 
r 
- 
•{<•"/ / C; —•(' 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
Item No. 
3/7/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
March 7, 1969. 
BOPP - PHILADELPHIA 
Board notes without objection your Bank's intention to hire a 
consulting architect to assist with your building program at a 
cost of approximately $1,500 a month for a period expected to run 
between two to four years. 
(signed CARMICHAEL) 
CARMICHAEL 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
3/7/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 12, 1969. 
Lybrand, Ross Bros. & Montgomery, 
1100 Connecticut Avenue, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
Gentlemen: 
The Board has noted with satisfaction your report dated 
January 31, 1969, concerning the adequacy of its arrangements during 
1968 for examining Federal Reserve Banks, and would ask that you pro-
vide similar services for the year 1969. As in 1968, the Board would 
like to have from you an opinion as to the effectiveness of the exam-
ination by the Board's staff, and the adequacy of the examination 
Procedures in the light of generally accepted auditing or examining 
standards that would be applicable in such an examination; also, any 
criticisms, observations, suggestions, or recommendations that you 
may deem appropriate regarding the examination, and your comments with 
regard to the structure of the examining staff and the competence of 
the personnel. For the attainment of these purposes, you will as 
before have full discretion regarding the scope of your review and the 
manner in which it will be conducted, and in choosing the particular 
examination that will be the subject of your study. 
You might find it helpful to discuss this engagement with 
Mr. John R. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations, who could assist you with specific arrangements that may 
be desirable. 
It is understood that your compensation will be on the basis 
your regular fee rates. 
The Board will appreciate written confirmation that you will 
conduct this procedural review on the terms indicated. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

OFCOvj 
BOARD OF GOVERNOR5 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5Y5TEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 10 
3/7/69 
O F F I C E OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
March 10, 1969. 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Phil: 
It is apparent that your letters dated February 25 to the 
30 large banks in the major cities in your District asking for a 
reaffirmation of intent to refrain from nonpurpose transactions that 
inflate reported balance totals were well warranted. The information 
in computer listings showing the movement around the year end in 
balance sheet accounts most widely used in window dressing furnished 
with your letter indicates a strong presumption that the practice was 
followed at some of the banks. Swings in balance sheet accounts at 
these banks seemed well beyond the range of the uncontrollable or 
unpredictable. Comparison of the information in the listings with 
the American Banker's list of the largest banks also tends to strengthen 
the assumption that gross window dressing occurred at some of the larger 
banks in your District. 
I agree with you that continued surveillance of the practice 
°f window dressing is needed. The Board, and myself in particular, 
continue to be keenly interested in having bank statements truly 
reflect the condition and competitive status of each bank. As recently 
a s last October the Board was asked by the Subcommittee on Government 
Operations of the House to comment on its progress in combating the 
Practice of window dressing at commercial banks. The Board's response 
was transmitted to the Presidents with the Board's letter of October 15, 
1968. That response indicated the Board felt much headway had been 
made since the period in the late 1950's and early 1960's when the 
Practice was recognized to be widespread among the larger banks. This 
was seen to have resulted from efforts of the Federal bank supervisory 
agencies and a real desire on the part of the banking community to be 
rid of the practice. 

8^3 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell 
-2-
The Subcommittee was also advised efforts to eliminate the 
possibility of window dressing are continuing. 
The active program for surveillance initiated during that 
period may now be somewhat dormant in many areas, but it appears a 
more active program along the lines of that conducted in your District 
may again be useful. 
Very truly yours, 

FEDERAL R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OFTHE 
W A S H I N G T O N . Q. C. P Q 5 5 I 
• FFICE OF THE VICE 
CHAIRMAN 
Item No. 11 
3/7/69 
March 10, 1969 
i 
For your information there is attached a copy of my 
letter to Phil Coldwell on the subject of window dressing of 
bank condition reports. The practice of inflation of bank reports 
by means of transactions which have no useful business purpose 
should not be tolerated. While I do believe the practice is not 
as prevalent as it once was I also believe the System is committed 
to maintain a continuing surveillance that will assure it does 
not again become widespread. 
H ' oh-
Very truly yours 
• * 
: 
It 
/ *J 
Vice Chairman 
. L. Robertson, 
Attachment 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
