MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 12, 19 72 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendments to Regulations G, T , and U , 
relating to securities credit transactions. 

1753 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, July 12, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Althausen, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

1759 
7/12/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Minneapolis, and San Francisco 
°n June 29, by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Kansas City, 
Dallas, and San Francisco on July 6, and by the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f
 Boston on July 11, 1972, of the rates on advances and discounts 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Citizens 
Bancorp, Vineland, New Jersey, to acquire shares of the successor 
b
y merger to The First National Bank of Marlton, Marlton, New Jersey, 
a n d
 authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
the order is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Citizens 
Bancorp, Vineland, New Jersey, to acquire shares of the successor by 
m e
r g e r to Citizens National Bank of South Jersey, Bridgeton, New Jersey, 
a n d
 authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
o f
 the order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of HMT Corpora-
tion, Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of shares of (1) Bank of Perrine, Perrine, Florida, and C2) Bank 
Cutler Ridge, Cutler Ridge, Florida. The applicant would acquire 

1' 
7/12/72 
-3-
Florida Shares, Inc., merge it into HMT Corporation and assume its 
name prior to the exchange of shares with the two proposed subsidiary 
banks. The Board also authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 3. 
Pursuant to discussion at the meeting on May 30, 1972, 
clearance had been obtained from the Interagency Committee on Bank 
Regulation regarding a proposed letter to the American Bankers 
Association with respect to waiver of applicable interest penalties 
banks and customers change deferred interest deposit agreements 
the light of amendments to Federal income tax regulations. 
At 
today's meeting the letter was approved unanimously. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved a request by Bank Shares 
Incorporated, Minneapolis, Minnesota, for a change in the procedures 
consummating its acquisition of shares of Olmsted County Bank & 
Trust Company, Rochester, Minnesota, approved by order dated July 21, 
1971. a copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
jten^No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland expressing no objection to the issuance of 
Proposed operating letters in connection with the Columbus, Ohio, 

1761 
7/12/72 
-4-
R
egional Check Processing Center. A copy of the letter is attached 
a s
 
No. 6. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Committee on Organiza-
tion, Compensation, and Building Plans in a memorandum of July 6, 
1972, the Board unanimously approved a telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis regarding a change order in the construction con-
tract for the Bank's new building. A copy of the telegram is attached 
a s
 Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the recommendation of the Office 
°f the Controller in a memorandum of July 7, 1972, that an assessment 
o f
 0.01075 per cent of the total paid-in capital and surplus of the 
Federal Reserve Banks as of June 30, 1972, be levied upon the Banks 
to meet the estimated operating and construction expenses of the Board 
during the second half of 1972. Such an assessment would produce 
$16,271,858. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Amendments to margin regulations. 
In April 1972 the Board 
Published for comment proposed amendments to Regulations G , T , and U , 
relating to credit for securities transactions, that would restrict 
the use of same-day substitution of collateral in low-equity status 
accounts. A revision of the proposals was published for further comment 

1762 
7/12/72 
-5-
pursuant to action on June 16, with an indication of the Board's 
intention that the amendments would become effective on August 14. 
In 
a memorandum of July 10 the staff recommended adoption of the proposed 
amendments and also of a technical amendment to Regulation T to permit 
short sales of stock into which bonds are convertible on the same terms 
as ordinary short sales of stock. 
Implementing documents were attached. 
No comments of substance had been received except for a request from 
the Securities Industry Association that the effective date be delayed 
for at least 45 days beyond August 14. The staff recommended retention 
the August 14 effective date. 
After a discussion during which several suggestions regarding 
the effective date were considered, the Board unanimously approved the 
amendments, effective September 18, 1972. Attached under Item No. 8 
is a copy of the press release announcing this action, along with copies 
the amendments. 
Reduced reserves. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division 
°f Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of June 29, 1972, 
the Board by unanimous vote denied the request of Security National 
fi
ank, Hempstead, New York, for permission temporarily to maintain 
reduced reserves. A copy of the letter sent to the member bank is 
attached as Item No. 9. 

1763 
7/12/72 
-6-
Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland). 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
(National Association), New York, New York, had applied for permission 
to purchase additional shares of its wholly-owned subsidiary, Chase 
Manhattan Bank (Switzerland), in Geneva. When the Board consented 
to the formation of the subsidiary in 1969, it imposed a condition 
that the parent bank would furnish such reports regarding the subsid-
iary as the Board might require and would maintain at the New York head 
office all information needed by examiners. The parent bank now con-
tended that because of the secrecy provisions in Swiss law, no informa-
tion could be made available outside Switzerland on individual borrowers 
and credits extended to them. After discussion by the Board on July 5, 
1972, Governor Robertson held a meeting with representatives of Chase 
Manhattan, but the discussion added little information and resulted 
in no additional concessions on the part of Chase Manhattan. 
In a 
memorandum of July 10 the Division of Supervision and Regulation reviewed 
the bank secrecy problem and the extent to which other banks were fur-
nishing information about their Swiss operations. The Division commented 
that in the circumstances, the Board's ability to withhold approval of 
the proposed investment was its principal means of pressure to exact 
compliance by Chase Manhattan. 
Discussion at today's meeting brought out that Chase Manhattan 
wanted to make the proposed investment in order to increase the capital 

7/12/72 
-7-
°f its Swiss subsidiary, without which the subsidiary could riot 
expand its operations. A recently enacted Swiss law would preclude 
such an investment, and it was thought that an exception could be 
obtained now but not later. Chase Manhattan's Swiss counsel had 
advised that to comply with the Board's information requirement 
would violate Swiss law and subject Chase Manhattan to penalties. 
Other banks that were subject to a similar information 
requirement were complying with it, an exception being Bankers 
Trust Company, New York, New York, which during an examination last 
year had refused to provide the examiner with information regarding 
the operations of its Swiss subsidiary. Banks had complied with the 
requirement principally through obtaining waivers from their multi-
national customers. Although the information supplied covered only 
about 70 to 80 per cent of credits extended by the subsidiaries, 
that range was considered adequate. Chase Manhattan was willing to 
obtain waivers from its American multi-national customers, which would 
cover about 50 per cent of its subsidiary's credits, but so far had 
made no commitment to obtain waivers from its foreign multi-national 
customers. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that it would be preferable 
to defer action until there had been an interchange of views with 
Swiss authorities. He thought the question might come within the 

1765 
7/12/72 
-8-
scope of the conferences he and Governor Mitchell had been having 
with foreign central banks with respect to the operations of U.S. 
banking offices of foreign organizations; capital requirements, 
examining, and reporting were among the subjects being discussed. 
Governor Brimmer, however, believed that the primary focus of that 
Project was on regulation of offices of foreign banks in this country, 
and that those conferences should not be allowed to cut across other 
issues in the foreign banking field. 
Discussion narrowed the choice of actions to two alternatives: 
(1) to approve the proposed investment only upon commitment by Chase 
Manhattan to provide the necessary information to the extent it was 
being provided by other banks; or (2) to approve the investment in 
°rder to enable Chase Manhattan to increase its subsidiary's capital, 
but with reiteration of the Board's expectation that Chase Manhattan 
would comply with the information requirement as fully as possible, 
and with the expectation that both the Board and Chase Manhattan would 
consult with Swiss authorities about the problem. 
A general preference having developed for the first alternative, 
the Board unanimously approved the sending of a letter to The Chase 
Manhattan Bank in the form attached as Item No. 10. 
Chase Manhattan Edge corporations. Governor Brimmer had 
requested that two applications upon which he could have acted under 

1 V 6 8 
7/12/72 
-9-
delegated authority be considered by the Board, namely, the appli-
cations of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, 
New York, and Chase Manhattan International Banking Corporation, Los 
Angeles, California, to invest in a joint venture, Alliance Holdings 
Limited, Sydney, Australia. 
In addition to financial operations, the 
Australian company owned directly or indirectly several nonfinancial 
interests; however, these comprised less than 1 per cent of the company's 
total business. 
In a memorandum of July 10, 1972, the Legal Division 
reviewed the position taken by the Board with respect to other some-
what similar applications and recommended permitting continuation of 
active nonfinancial businesses in the present instance so long as they 
remained of the same character and insubstantial in the aggregate in 
Proportion to the total business of the Australian company. 
Draft 
letters were attached. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer spoke of the desirability 
that the Board make public the rules it followed in judging investments 
i n
 joint ventures. As for the present applications, he would vote 
f
or denial. 
Governor Robertson said he would be willing to vote for approval 
only upon condition that there would be no new entry into nonfinancial 
business, that existing nonfinancial businesses were not expanded, and 

176 
7/12/72 
-10-
that within five years they would be divested. Governor Bucher also 
advocated a requirement of divestiture as a condition to approval, 
and expressed the view that a statement of guidelines and objectives 
should be adopted promptly. Chairman Burns and Governors Daane and 
Sheehan favored approval without special conditions. 
The positions of the members present being evenly divided, 
a suggestion was made that the matter be deferred. However, it was 
brought out that the Australian authorities were likely to withdraw 
their approval if the Chase Manhattan subsidiaries could not consummate 
the transactions promptly. Governor Bucher therefore changed his vote 
to approval, although he again spoke of the urgent need to adopt a 
statement of principles. 
The applications were approved, Governors Robertson and Brimmer 
dissenting. Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are attached 
a s
 Items 11 and 12. 
"Grandfather rights" procedures. The 1970 amendments brought 
into the coverage of the Bank Holding Company Act a number of companies 
that owned one bank and also had interests in nonbanking businesses. 
The amendments permitted the retention of those nonbanking activities 
indefinitely if they were acquired before June 30, 1968; if they were 
acquired between that date and December 31, 1970, they might be 
continued until December 31, 1980. In October 1971 the Board published 

1763 
7/12/72 
-11-
f
or comment a proposed amendment to Regulation Y , Bank Holding 
Companies, that would provide for the termination of such grandfather 
rights of any of these "1970 companies" no later than two years from 
the date of 
the Board's approval of an application to acquire an 
additional bank. 
In the light of adverse comments received, the 
Board did not adopt that amendment, but instead agreed to an ad hoc 
approach. 
In a memorandum of July 3, 1972, the Legal Division inquired 
about the extent to which the Board wanted reviews of grandfathered 
activities to be made, the question being raised in the context of 
an application included on today's agenda (the application of North 
American Mortgage Corporation, discussed in the next entry in these 
minutes). 
The Division noted that it appeared probable that more 
applications by 1970 companies to acquire additional banks would be 
coming before the Board than had been foreseen when the ad hoc approach 
w
a s adopted. 
Several alternative procedures were offered for consid-
eration, and their advantages and disadvantages were discussed in 
the memorandum. 
Discussion included comments on the problem of expeditious 
handling of applications if action had to be withheld on a proposal 
to acquire an additional bank until a thorough review had been made 

1769 
7/12/72 
-12-
of nonbankirig activities of the applicant. 
It was noted that the 
ad hoc approach placed the burden of proof on the Federal Reserve, 
and a suggestion was made that the applicant be required to demonstrate 
that its nonbanking activities were not in conflict with the statute. 
It was observed that each of the alternative procedures suggested 
carried different implications for staff needs, and there ensued 
comments on staffing and training problems. 
It having been noted that Governor Mitchell had expressed 
special interest in the general problem, it was agreed that the Board 
would revert to the question at a time when he could be present. 
North American Mortgage Corporation. In a memorandum of 
J
une 1, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of North American Mortgage Corporation, 
St. Petersburg, Florida, to acquire shares of The American Bank, 
St. Petersburg, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
Discussion included agreement that an order in support of approval 
would make clear that the Board reserved the right to review the non-
banking activities of the applicant to determine whether their contin-
uation would be adverse to the public interest. 
The application was approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, and 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision was authorized. 
Attached 
under Item No. 13 are copies of the order and of a concurring statement 

1770 
7/12/72 
-13-
subsequently issued by Governor Robertson. Governor Brimmer stated 
that his dissent was based on the same reasons he had set forth in 
his dissenting statement with respect to approval of the application 
of First National City Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire the 
successor by merger to The National Exchange Bank of Castleton-on-Hudson, 
Castleton-on-Hudson, New York (order dated July 7, 1972). 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Melnicoff and Smith 
then withdrew, and Messrs. Solomon, Adviser to the Board, and Bryant, 
Director, Division of International Finance, entered the room. 
Governor Daane commented on the meeting of the Bank for 
International Settlements he had recently attended in Basle, Switzerland. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1771 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/12/72 
CITIZENS BANCORP 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Citizens Bancorp, Vineland, New Jersey, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
a
PPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l 8
^
2
( a ) ( 3 ) ) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
o f
 the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Marlton, 
lton, New Jersey ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
h
a s no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of 
voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition is treated 
herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n
d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i r i
 light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls two banks with deposits of about $33 million, 
^Presenting approximately .2 per cent of total deposits of commercial 
b
anks in New Jersey and is the smallest multi-bank holding company in the 
1/ 
a t
e . 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of about $21 million) would increase 
Applicant
1
s share of the deposits in the State by only about .1 of one 
Percentage point and would not alter its ranking. 
1/ Banking data arc as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1972. 

1772 
-2-
There is little existing competition between Applicant and 
®
a
n k , though one of Applicant's two banking subsidiaries is located in 
Camden area as is Bank. 
Neither Bank nor this subsidiary is a 
s
* § n i f i C a n t f a c t o r in the Camden area, with market shares of 1.2 and 
per cent, respectively, and the combination of these two banks would 
s t
i l l leave Applicant ranking only as the eleventh largest banking organiza-
tion i n t h e Camden area. 
There is little likelihood of substantial future 
competition developing between this subsidiary and Bank due to the large 
dumber of intervening banks, New Jersey's branching laws, and the somewhat 
limited resources of Applicant's subsidiary and Bank. 
Consummation of the 
p r
°posal would be consistent with approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
S o u r c e s , and prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks are 
8 e n
e r a l l y satisfactory. 
On the other hand, Bank has shown a poor operating 
h i
s t o r y and a lack of management continuity. 
Affiliation by Bank with 
applicant should help to alleviate these problems and provide for a 
strengthened institution. 
Applicant has already assisted Bank in obtain-
in 
8 additional capital which was strongly required. Considerations re-
n t i n g to these factors lend strong weight for approval of this application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o
 be served are consistent with approval of the application. 
It is the 
B
°ard's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be 
in 
K 
t»e public interest and the application should be approved. 

-2-
1773 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. 
The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
o r
 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12, 1972. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell. 

4 4 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
item N o . 2 
7/12/72 
CITIZENS BANCORP 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Citizens Bancorp, Vineland, New Jersey, a bank holding company 
w
ithin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
a c
q u i r e 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting 
shares of the successor by merger to Citizens National Bank of South 
Jersey, Bridgeton, New Jersey ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to 
he merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acqui-
sition of 
voting shares of B a n k . Accordingly, the proposed acquisition 
is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3
( b ) of the A c t . 
The time for filing comments and view3 has expired, 
an
<* the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
l n
 light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls three banks with deposits of about $54 million, 
representing approximately .3 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks 
in New Jersey and is the smallest multi-bank holding company in the State. 
Acquisition of Bank (deposits of about $17 million) would increase Appli-
cant's share of deposits in the State by only about one-tenth of one 
Percentage point and would not alter its ranking. 
y 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 31, 1972, 
include the Board's approval of this date of Applicant's acquisition 
o f
 The First National Bank of Marlton, Marlton, New Jersey. 

1775 
-2-
Bank is the smallest organization operating in the Vineland-
Millville-Bridgeton area w i t h 3.3 per cent of area d e p o s i t s . Although 
one of Applicant's subsidiary banks is located in this area and 
controls 5 per cent of area d e p o s i t s , there is little existing compe-
tition between this b a n k , or any of Applicant's other subsidiary b a n k s , 
and Bank * Three of the banks competing in the Vineland-Millville-
Bridgeton area control over $200 million in deposits e a c h , and four 
°f the banks are affiliated with three of the six largest bank holding 
companies in New J e r s e y . 
It appears that there is little likelihood of 
substantial competition developing in the future between Bank and any of 
Applicant's present subsidiary b a n k s . 
Consummation of the proposal would 
h
a v e no adverse effects on existing or potential competition and may 
create more effective competition for the larger organizations in the 
market. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
resources, and prospects of A p p l i c a n t , its subsidiary b a n k s , and Bank are 
generally s a t i s f a c t o r y , and are consistent with approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served lend w e i g h t for approval of the application, since Applicant 
Plans to provide overdraft checking privileges and data processing services 
w
h i c h are not presently available to customers of B a n k . 
It is the Board's 

1778 
-3-
judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition would be in the 
Public interest and the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. 
The transaction shall not be consummated 
(
a
) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
o r
 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12, 1972. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
°aane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell, 

<64 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/12/72 
HMT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
HMT Corporation, Miami, Florida, has applied for the Board's 
a
Pproval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842 
<
a
)(l)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition of 
8 0
 per cent or more of the voting shares of each of Bank of Perrine, 
p
errine, Florida ('"Perrine Bank"), and Bank of Cutler Ridge, Cutler 
R i d
g e , Florida ("Cutler Ridge Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3
( b ) of the A c t . 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d
 the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
ll
-ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is an inactive corporation recently organized under 
t h
e laws of the State of Florida for the purpose of acquiring Perrine 
Bank ($17.3 million in deposits) and Cutler Ridge Bank ($5.6 million in 
d e
p o s i t s ) . 
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
30, 1972.) 
Applicant proposes to acquire shares of the subject 
b
anks in accordance with the plan of reorganization; directly, through 
ar
* exchange of stock, and indirectly through the acquisition of 90 per 
c
e n t or more of the outstanding shares of Florida Shares, Inc., a Florida 
c
°rporation which owns stock of the Perrine and Cutler Ridge Banks. 
It is 

1778 
-2-
Proposed that, subsequently, Florida Shares, I n c . will be merged into 
Applicant under the name "Florida Shares, Inc.". 
As a result of consummation of the proposal, Applicant would 
r
ank as the twenty-sixth largest bank holding company in the State through 
control of .14 per cent of aggregate commercial bank deposits in the State 
a
nd would become, in terms of deposits, the eleventh largest of the 
thirteen bank holding companies operating in Dade County where both sub-
ject banks arc located, and, together, control .7 per cent of the commercial 
b
a n k deposits in that market. 
Notwithstanding the fact that their service 
areas overlap, the subject banks do not presently engage in meaningful 
competition nor are they likely to do so in the future in view of the 
d o s e affiliation between them. 
(The principal stockholders of Perrine 
Bank organized Cutler Ridge Bank in 1964; currently, nine directors are 
common to both banks; and investment policies of both banks are identical 
and handled by common management.) 
It is the Board's judgment that 
approval of the formation would have no adverse effects on competition. 
Applicant proposes to increase substantially Perrine Bank's 
c
apital funds. 
In the light of this consideration, the financial condition 
a n c
* managerial resources of the proposed group are regarded as generally 
s
atisfactory, and prospects for the system appear favorable. 
Applicant 
also proposes to introduce trust services at Perrine Bank, and it is 
expected that the community will benefit from this additional source of 
banking services. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the area to be served are consistent w i t h , and lend some support toward, 

1779 
-2-
a
Pproval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h
® reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r
 by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective July 12, 1972. 
(Signed) 
Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
y 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
kaane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Governor 
Mitchell. 

1780 
B O A R D 
OF* 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
E l V S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2055/ 
OF THE 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R ^ K S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H C 
B O A R D 
Item No. 4 
7/12/72 
July 17, 1972 
Mr, John F . Rolph, III 
ttirector, Taxation Committee 
1'he American Bankers Association 
1120 Connecticut Avenue., N.W, 
Washington, D. C. 
20036 
Eear Mr. Rolph: 
This refers to your letter of March 9, 1972, asking the Board 
to give consideration to waiving any interest penalty that may apply if 
banks and customers wish to make changes in deferred interest deposit 
agreements in the light of certain amendments to the Federal income tax 
regulations. 
Banks and customers have entered into deposit agreements with 
Maturities exceeding one year that provide for the payment of interest 
only at the maturity of the obligation. 
By virtue of administrative 
rulings issued by the Internal Revenue Service prior to June, 1970, the 
customer was not" required to include any of the interest in his gross 
income until the year it was paid or made available at maturity, and 
bonks were permitted to report the interest for: Federal income tax purposes 
on an accrual basis. The advantage of these arrangements to the customer 
Vas the opportunity to defei. interest income to minimise his overall tax 
liability. 
On December 23, 1971, the Internal Revenue Service published 
in f-hp 
j.-r-i l i s t e r ',36 Fee. Reg. 24095") amendments to the Federal 
income "t^T^Iguiationr*under section 1232 and 6049 o f the Internal Revenue 
Code re 1-5 tin - to bonds and of her evidence of indebtedness with "original 
issue discount/' 
These regulations apply to deferred interest Ci)s pur-
,-pl r-ndar vears beginning 
the deposit obligation, the regulations 
nortioc of. the deferred interest in his 
teroi of r.hn cbligr.tion. The calculation 
itivc-3'ves an apportioning of the 

1781 
M
r . Jolm F. Ro'iph, III 
2 -
total interest to be received on a pro-rata (straight-line) monthly basis. 
Tor Federal tax purposes, banks must report interest as paid to the deposito 
on the same basis. 
Ycu are concerned with the effect of Regulation Q on situations 
where: 
(1) banks amend deposit contracts or substitute current interest 
deposit arrangements for deferred interest: deposit arrangements in order 
to permit depositors to receive interest on an annual or more frequent 
basis so as to avoid the complex original issue discount interest income 
computation and inclusion rules, and (2) a depositor makes an early with-
drawal from his deposit in order to pay the tax on deferred interest 
required to be reported by the original issue discount regulations. 
You ask whether the action taken by banks and depositors in 
tbe.ee situations involves an "emergency" withdrawal under the previsions 
section 217.4(d) of Regulation Q and, if so., whether the Board, would 
be willing to waive the interest penalty specified in that section. 
The short answer to these queries is that the situation does not 
provide a basis for an "emergency" withdrawal as contemplated by the 
Regulation. 
Section 217.4(d) of Regulation Q relates to payment of the 
JE'rJ^tci^i of a time deposit prior to maturity; neither that section nor 
any other section of Regulation Q prevents a bank and its customer from 
^.negotiating the terms of the contract relating to the frequency and 
dates of payment of interest on a deposit. 
Conversion from a deferred interest deposit arrangement to a 
current interest deposit arrangement affects only interest payments on 
the obligation. 
The depositor would receive interest at an earlier date 
than had been agreed upon at the time he entered into the contract. 
As 
iong as the principal of the. deposit is left undisturbed and the maturity 
of thft obligation is unchanged, conversion to current interest arrangements 
3oes not constitute a payment, in part or in full, of a deposit prior to 
fc&curity and is not governed by the provisions of section 217.4(d). 
With respect tc early withdrawal by the depositor in order to 
"'•eeelve funds to pay the unanticipated tax liability, it is not necessary 
to disturb the principal of the deposit. 
It is evident that the additional 
t*:'. liability resulting "from the original issue discount regulations will 
he. ;Uae than the interest earned (but not paid) on the deposit. 
In other 
Wfl3~~(:he interest earned will be mere than sufficient to cover the addi-
t i o n ^ 
i:;±k liability, and the-. bank -:.nd customer may agree that the. depositor 
"w-ij.i k . p^id (he interest earned in order to cover that liability. 
Since 
r,. v-j r i 0 necessity to reach the principal of the deposit, section 217.4(d 
vonld nee. apply. 

4 
Mr. John F . Rolph, III 
- 3 -
The Board is of the view that, in the circumstances of this 
case, equity requires an additional form of relief. 
Bank customers 
entered into these contracts on the assumption that favorable tax treat-
ment would remain available. 
The Board believes that a significant purpose 
of such contracts has therefore been frustrated by the changes in the income 
tax regulations. 
Consequently, the Board has concluded, on the basis of 
the doctrine of frustration, of the contract, that there would be no violation 
of Regulation. Q if depositors or banks terminate their deposit, agreements 
entered int.. prior to the effective date of the amended IRS regulations 
and affected thereby, Termination of the deposit agreements on this basis 
does not: involve the provisions of section 217.4 (d) of Regulation Q. 
The Beard wishes to make clear that its views are limited to 
this particular situation and are not intended to establish a general 
rule with respect to the termination of deposit contracts in the event 
of other eUscrfOs in tax regulations that may affect them. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

1783 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.
• 
Of T H E 
Item No. 5 
S & Z ^ M ; . 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7/12/72 
: 
. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20531 
'J*^?' H i { t' ' 'V-t
1
,* 
ADDRESS DrriCIAL COIMf.SPOHOEIICE 
TFI'IV''' 
T D 
T H E 
( J C A R D 
July 17, 1972 
M r . Vance De Long, Senior Vice President 
Bank Shares Incorporated 
7 7 7 Ma r q u e 1.t e Ave m 1 e 
Mi.niie.apoIi« , Mirnieso ta 
53030 
Dear M r . Da Long: 
This refers to your request to the Federal Reserve 
Bank ol Minneapolis for permission Co acquire the voting shares 
of Olmsted County Bank & Trust Company by assuming temporary 
debt of $4,000,000 at prime interest, and to delay the public 
ordering of tlte sh-re^ of Bank Shares, Incorporated, as proposed 
In vonr application to acquire Olmsted Bank. 
The Board 
considered your request in the light of 
the f ae rot .v set forth and the circumstances as they now exist 
and finds that the proposed change in the manner of acquisition LS 
not sufficient to revise the Board's approval Order of July >I> 
1971. Consequently, the Board approves your request on the condi-
tion that the debt is replaced with equity by Applicant or any 
successor corporation promptly upon termination of negotiations, 
but in any event not later than one year. 
It should also be 
understood that since rhe financing is oiVJy a temporary expedient 
to permit proper timing of the public offering, no future applica-
tions involving significant outlay of funds will be entertained 
v-ntil such debt is replaced. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistnnt Secretary 

1784 
B O A R D 
o r 
G O V E R N O R B 
o r THE 
Item No . 6 
* t* "" <c ' " 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/12/72 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20351 
ADDRESS OrriCIAU COHREEFDNOENCE 
TU THE tlOAUD 
July 12, 1972 
M r . Willis J. W i n n , President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Cleveland, Ohio 
44101 
Dear Mr. Winn: 
In accordance with S-Letter 2.02.9, the 
Board has reviewed the proposed operating letters 
enclosed with your letter to Mr. Tynan Smith 
dated July 3, 1972. 
The Board has no objection 
to the issuance of thece operating letters in 
connection with the Columbus, Ohio, Regional Check 
Processing Center. 
Yours very truly, 
/ / 
/ 
A 
/ 
/1 
Mi ch ae "i A . Gr eens pp y 
Assistant Secretary 

1785 
Item No. 7 
I £ L E G R A M 
7/12/72 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
July 12, 1972 
Mac.Laury - Minneapolis 
Board approves Bank's June 2,2, 1972, request to issue change 
order to construction contract in amount not.to exceed 
$95,000 for installation of currency destruction equipment 
subject to approval by Treasury Department. 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Greenspan 

1788 
\,%i I'in • 
| j s' 
tul fi'X'-.' 
1
 
i.rr.-r.ad i c. t e re lea s e 
Item No. 8 
7/12/72 
July 13, 1972 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
approval of a technical amendment to its margin regulations do-
c
*Uned to improve the quality of stock market credit. The change,which 
W,
--U become effective September 18, will str:•.'->gthen the equity position 
°
c
 lov;-;i;argin accounts when offsetting sales and purchases of stock 
C
°1lateral are made on the same day. 
The amendment is the same as the modified proposal published 
ky the Board for additional public comment on June 16. The basic amend-
ment 
originally proposed for public cerument on April 28,. The medifi-
announced on June 16 affect the maimer of calculating the status 
t 
'?,:!,n account?* « 
Under the amendment $ use of the "same-day substitution" rule 
end in account;?, where the debt—adjusted as defined in the regu-
lation—is more than 60 per cent of the market value of the stock col-
J
-
,
'
i<
'-«iral in the account. 
U <der the "same-day substitution
1
' rule, customers are permitted 
1 0
 Substitute one security for another in their accounts through off-
*
45
1 ting purchases and sales made on the saue day even if the account is 
^lov, the initial margin requirement. 
Presently, no margin customer is 
^qv.ii'en to put; up additional, equity unless he buys more securities than 
i:f
- neila on chat day. This practice makes it possible for customers 
H t h uTieerffiarginecl accounts to continue trading for extended periods 
^••thov.. pufctiop, up additional equity. 

1787 
-2" 
The Board's action amends the regulations governing extensions 
cf credit by brokers and dealers (Regulation T) and loans by banks and 
other lenders (Regulation U and G respectively) for the purpose of 
Purchasing or carrying stocks registered on a national exchange or named 
in the Board'n over-the-counter margin list. 
In a second action, the Board adopted, also effective 
Septester 18, another technical amendment to Regulation T to permit short 
t; ft lea of stock Into which bonds are convertible on the same terms as 
ordinary short sales of stock. 
k copy of the fjacndmr.ts is attached* 

r h 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
C\&l>£ZR II — FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A ~ 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THF. FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Rsg3. G, T , and U] 
FARTS 207, ?20, 221 « 
SECURITIES CXHDIT TRANSACTIONS 
gnnyj.^Y ^ ^ " ^ ^ ^ i o n g : Convertible "Hedge" T r a n s a c t i n g . 
By notico of proposed rule .raking published in the Federal 
®* rj«t*r c,n Juna 23, 1972, (37 F. R. 12409) the Board of Governors published 
a modifiod provosol to amend Farts 207, 220, and 221 (Regs, C , T , and U) 
vit!i vaapeet to 
-day substitutions and convertible 
transaction* 
ltollwioB consideration of a U e o m i i t a tccelved, and for the roc*sous 
est 
t „ thn proposal, 
the Voxrt bite determMso fchsc the 
proposed 
Gae.ifoSrMC.uta shr.uid b*
1
. adopted. 
To implement its decision, t.ha Board emends Porto 2.0'; , 220, 
awl 
221 as follows: 
1. 
Ill Part: 207 OV-B.O), § 207.1(j)(2) H anwndad; a new para-
Croph (k) is added to 1 207,2; and a new paragraph (f) i& added to s 207.S. 
2.. In Fart 220 (Reg. T ) , §§ 220.3(a), (b)(1), (d)(3), and it) 
»ro 
.5 220.4(.l) subparagraph C O is arae tided and a new uubperegret* 
(5) UJ added; and in | 220,8 (the Supplement to Regulation T> a new pare-
C v i T l , C g ) 
i t t added and the existing paragraphs < B > and (h) are redesign 
n^ttvd nr. paragraphs (h) and (?.), respectively. 
3. 
!v, 
221 (He:;, U), § 221.1(c) ia amended; and a new 
^frapraK* (£') is redded to § 221.4. 

1789 
2 -
4 . 
To conform with the above amendments, Part 220 (Reg. T ) 
in air.im^cd as follows;: 
In i 2.20.2(e)(2), the reference to § 220.8(g) 
is cha\v>>rf to read § 220.8(h); and in 5 220.2(c)(3)(ii), the reference 
to f; 220.8(h) is changed to read § 220.8(i). 
5. 
These amendments ere iocued pursuant, to section 7 of 
tht Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.3.C. 78g). 
Jlf factive^jate. 
These amendments ore affective September 18. 
197Z, 
hy order of the Ec&rO of Governors, July 12, 1972. 
,. ; 
< S ignsi »i ) Ki c hi * 
^
E
E
" 
liiehael A . frsra^n^pao 
An f. 1stcat S e c r a t a r y 
PART 207 
~~ SECURITIES CREDIT BY PERSONS 
OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, OR DEALERS 
§ 207/! ~~ GKNKHAL IUJLE 
ft 
(j} Withdrawals and 
of. collateral. 
(2) 
San. G-day substitution of collanftral. 
Except an pro-
hibir»?-J by § 207.4(a)(2), in the case of a credit in which the equity 
ratio is cqurj. to or exceeds the sninirauin equity ratio as prescribed 
in 
S 20?.2 (the* supplement to the regulation) a lender nay permit a 

1730 
- J> 
<»»bat:ituticm of, margin securities effected by a purchase and sale on 
executed within the samo day: 
Provided, That (i) if the pro-
ceeds of the 
exceed the total cost of the purchase, the credit is 
reduced by at least: an raount equal to the retention requirement in 
r-.ftpcafc to the sale le&s the retention requirement in reopect to the 
o r (XI) if the total cost of the purchase exceeds tha pro-
ceeds of the sale, the credit may be increased by an amount no greater 
than the maxirouw loan value of the securities purchased less the maxi-
^ 
lost, m t u a of the securities sold. 
If the maximum loan value of 
Mio collateral securing the credit has become less then the amount of 
the credit, tha amount of the credit may nonetheless be increased if 
*h*re is. p r o v i d e additions! coll^ccral having maxi^uM loan value at 
least CMV^I to the araoaot of i K c r ^ a o , or the credit is a ^ a m ! £\fi> 
s
 uan i: t o § 2 07.4 ( a )» 
£ 207.2 —• DEFINITIONS 
* 
it 
* 
'k 
* 
(lr) The fcerai "gfjuitx ratio" incano the fraction stated as a 
Mrcentagr* ia which the denominator is the current market value of ths 
collateral having loan value in respect cf the crcdit and the numerator 
U such current market value minus the amount of the credit currently owing. 
•ft 
"k 
* 207.5 
Sllt'^JE^fiWI
1 
ft 
-Hi 
i< 
- 
* 
(':) Minimum equity ratio. 
The ®inimutfi equity ratio oi a 
tarsal z s»??i«er.t to § 707.1 is &0 percent. 

.. ft' -
PART 220- 
••GT.EDIT Wi BROKERS AloJ DEALERS 
l?3l 
§ 220.3 — GENERAL ACCOUNT 
(OK 
Contents of^^engrol. account» 
All financial relations 
between a creditor and a c u s t o m " , whether recorded in one record or 
in mine then one record, nhall be included in and bo deemed to be 
Part o f the c u s t o m e r ' s general account K i t h t h e creditor, exctpt that 
the relations which 5 220.4 permits to be included in a by special 
Account: provided for by that section taay fee included in die appro-
priate special account, end oil transactions in cc©Eoditiea» and, except 
to the extent provided in paragraph (b)(2) of this section, all trans-
actions in ncn-equity securities, excepted securities, and in other 
fientities 
hnvinu, no lean w l u s in a general account ur.der the pre-
vUvotig of paragraph <c> 0!; fchifo section er-d' if 220<S (the Stmrle^nt: 
;to 
R a t i o n t) (except unicaucd /securities, abort saXes and 
K l U e e positions to offset abort sales other thau those permitted in 
220,fi(3>(5), purchases to cover short eel en and contracts involving 
an futdcr-i^ant or "uarnvn-.ee of any put, call, or other option), shall 
be: included In the expropriate special account provided for by § 220,4. 
During any period when such & 220,8 a ^ c i f i e o that margin equity aecu-
aha 11 have 00 loan value in a general account or special con-
vertible debt security account (nwwst-ltfoa referred to herein an "special 
convertible security account") subject to $ 220.4(j>, any transaction 
ccnoictiw; of a purchase of a security other than a purchase of a secu-
rity to reduce or close oufc a short position shall be effected in the 
cash account provided for by ? 2 2 0 . 4 & ) or in sro* other 
apwojwiet*. spec la! account provided tor by § 220,4. 

- % -
1732 
(b) General rule. (X) (t) A creditor shr.ll not effect for 
or with any customer in a general account, special bond account Pubje.ct 
to § 220.4(1), or epccial convertible debt security account any trans-
action nhieh, in combination with the other transactions effected in 
such account on the satne day, creates an excess of the adjusted dfcbit 
balance of such account over the maxlsuta loan value of the securities 
hi 3-ucb account5 or increases any such onccBf^ unless in connection 
therewith fcho creditor obtains, as promptly ac possible and in any 
t-'>e.-,t before the aspiration of 5 full business days following the date 
of such transaction, the deposit into such account of cash or secu-
in such amount that fch# cash deposited plus She loan 
of fcha 
fie»>oaitv4 equal* or crccceds the orceM ao created or the 
inctsaa© sc. caused, 
(il) 
11' the adjusted debit balance in a general account or 
special convertible debt security account, computed using the margin 
tf&quirowar.t: for short sales specified in § 220.8(g)(2) of tha 
uppla-
r.uu'U: to Regulation T , exceed a tho riaximum loan value of the securities 
in frd> a m o u n t epaclCtcd in § 220.0(g)(1), the account is subject to 
S 2.20.1*0-) (oometiiS*;. referral to herein nu "account subject to aec-
U o a 8(g)*'). If an account is subject to § 220.8(g) 
as of the close 
c*£ business on fch* preceding business day, it shall be subject, in 
E d i t i o n to r.U other requirements applying to the account, to the 
raquirer.ant that the creditor shall not effect any transaction in ihe 
Recount which errata* au excess of the adjusted debit balance of ouch 
t 
i 

1793 
- 6 ~ 
account, computed using the margin requirement8 for short sales 
Specified in § 220.8(d), over the maximum loan value of the secu-
rities in such account specified in § 220.8(a) and (c), or increases 
any such excess, unless in connection therewith the creditor obtains, 
as promptly as possible and in any event before the expiration of S 
full butflnest; days following the date of such transaction, the deposit 
in.tq such account: of cash or securities in such amount that the oath 
deposited plus the loan value of the securities deposited equals or 
exceeds the excess so created or the increase so causede 
The re-
quiicd deposit may be reduced by the amount of cash or securities 
tfhlnh ofchen-zise could ba withdrawn pursuant tc» the provisions of 
aubparajsruph (2) o£ this narr.grsph £r; connectAou with auy o U u ? trans-
action® in the account ca the same clay. 
£ 
','f 
Vr 
tV 
* 
(d) Adjusted debit balance. For the purpose of this part, 
the adjusted debit balance of a general account, special bond account, 
rft GiwUil convertible debt security account shall be calculated by 
tiling the st«a of the following items: 
* 
* 
* 
(3) the current market value of any securities (other than 
unissued securities) sold short in the general account plus, for each 
security (other than an. exempted security), such amount-as the Board 
shell prescribe from tine to time in § 220.8(d) (the Supplement to 

- 7 ~ 
1734 
Regulation X) as the Margin required for such short sales, except that 
such amount: so prescribed <n such § 220,8(d) need not bo included when 
the.re are held in the general account or special convertible debt secu-
rity account the same securities or securities exchangeable; or con-
Vert ible with I n 90 calendar days, without restriction other than the 
yaytneufc of money, into such securities sold short; 
'A 
V: 
'A 
i: 
& 
(g) 
Tran^a^tipns on fciyen day. 
(1) 
Tor th« purpose of 
parrgrarh (h)(1) 
of this section, ercept in the case of an ecccunt 
subject to section 8(g), the question of whether or not an ercess of 
tho v.6justed debit balance of a general account, special bond account, 
or .ap-ssl'iX converfcibta der»r. security ticcovmt ovar the 
xoen valvs 
v'." tha securities5 in such account is czfenced or ins'rcsced on 
given 
day shrill be determined an the basis of all the transactions in the 
account en such day exclusive of any deposit of cash, deposit of secu-
rities, covering transactions, or other liquidation that hat? been 
effooted on such d a y , pursuant to the requirements of paragraph (b) 
or (?) of this rectian, in connection with a transaction on a previous 
d a y . 
(2) 
Xa the case of an account subject to section 8(g), the 
required depooif, under paragraph ( h ) ( 1 ) ( H ) 
of this section in 
connection with transactions on a given d a y , shell be equal to the 
amount by which the retention requirement of any securities sold for 
such account on such day ar-cceeda the maximum loan value of any secu-
rities 
purchased in such account on such d a y . 
Such computation may 

-3 -
bt- mode at the clous of tending on ' ^ k day and eholl be raeda exclusive 
c£ a n y deposit of cash, deposit of securities, covering transactions 
or other liquidation that has been effected on ouch day, pursuant to 
the re^iir^ents of paragraph 
(h) or (e) of this section, in connection 
vifch a transaction on a previous dcy. 
O ) 
In sny case in which on oxceas 
so created, or increase 
qo ceiled, by traunsctionb on a given day does not e::cec.d $100, the 
creditor need not obtain the deposit specified therefor in paragraph 
(b)(1) 0.2 this ftecrion. 
if*) toy transaction which serves no meet the requirements of 
SWJ.TOph (c) of this section or otherwise serves to parmit any offf-
n^tinji e w r w e t f t o a in an a e c w m t .hall, tc then ostein:, be unavailable 
v- ufxi.it a ay ether transaction i a such account. 
(5) 
For the purposes of this part (Regulation T), if a eecu-
r i t y bad waximiun loan value under paragraph (c)(1) of this section in 
a gena^l account, or under 5 220.Hi) 
in a special convertible debt 
•ie«u)dLly Account, a sale of the same security (even though not the 
, , 
, .. 
' be daccied to be a long 
fiowe eas.tirJ.cato} in such account snai^ ^ 
sale and, r h U l not be deemed to be or treated as a short sale. 
I 
& 
-.V 
'•< 
s 
220.4 -- SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
•A- 
'A 
* 
* 
* 
(i) 
Sgecia 1 j f ^ v j ^ 
' 
* 
* 
* 
e v e s n t £ny convertible debt security held in this 
« c c r w , *n to be converted to a stock, such security shall upon con-
he t r a n s f e r ^ to the customer's general account against « 

9 - 
173S 
deposit of cash or margin securities eligible for on extension of credit 
in this account (counted at their maximum lean value) equal to at least 
the maximum loan value of the security &c transferred without regard to 
the retention requirement of § 220.3(b)(2), 
(5) 
In a special convertible debt security account the amount 
of margin equity securities into which a margin debt security held in 
the account is convertible may be sold short without regard to the margin 
required for shore sales in 6 220.8(d) (Supplement to Regulation T), 
ouch short j:oeil:ion may he carried in the special convertible debt 
security account la conformity with the exception provided in § 220.3(d)(3). 
JL. 
-k 
* 
VV 
C 
22(1.8 -- SUPPL2HBI-IX 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
( B ) 
A
c
c
e
n
t
• 
purposes o>: the com-
putation described in $ 220.3(b)(1)(ii) f 
U ) 
The mavJ-mum lo.-n value of a registered non-equity security 
held li\ tnn 
account on March 11, I960, and continuously thereafter, and 
ci: a virgin equity security shall be 60 per cent of the current market 
vnluft of fluch security, and the maximum loan value of an exempted sectv< 
rlfy held in the account on March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter 
Ct.aH be the maximum loan value of the security as determined by the 
cred i. tor i it good fa i t h, 
(?) 
The amount to be included in the adjusted debit balance 
of the turvjat pursuant to tj 2.20.3(d)(3) as margin required for. chert 
•SRlfta ft -ecvritics (other then exempted securities) shall be '+0 per 
CM'"!;" d'" the current market value of cscti security* 

1737 
• 'PART 221 -- CREDIT Iff EAKXS FCU TK2 PURPOSE 
. 0!? ^ C l i A S I K G OH C&RRYXKO MsVRGIN STOCKS 
I 221,1 — GENERAL RULE 
* 
V; 
vY 
'-V 
-A 
(c) 
Satt^foy Sgansaetion s ( 1 ) 
Except as provided in 
5) 221,3(r) (1) , a bank may in the case of a credit in which the equity 
ratio Is eourI to or exceeds the minimum equity ratio as prescribed in 
5 221,4 (the supplement to the regulation) permit a substitution or 
stock vhathar nuir c in or n o n ^ t g i r v effected by * purchase and sale on 
orders executed within the same day? 
Provided^ That (i) if the proceeds 
of the aaie exceed the total cost of the purchase, the credit is reduced 
by et least an amaunt equal to the "retention requirement:" with respect 
ta 
sale less th:i "retention requirement" vifch respect to the 
purcliasc» or ( i i > 10 the total cost, of the purchase 
the proceeds 
of fchtf s a l e , the credit roay be increased by an amount no greater than 
l\H, 
loan value ot the clock purchased leso the maximum loan 
value of the stock sold„ 
If the maximum loan value of the collateral 
.Recuristg the credit has become less than the amount of the credit, the 
u*otm£ of the credit may nonetheless be increased it' there is provided 
ddJ.tI.onaI collateral having maximum loan value at lease equal to the 
amount of the increase. 
(2) 
For the purpose of this paragraph, the terra E q u i t y ratio" 
» u u i c the fraction (stated as a percentage) in which the denominator is 
the current market: value of the collateral having loan value in respect 
Q ? 
t- : C evrodit and the numerator is cueh current market value minus tne 
meant of. the credit currently owing. 
a 

1738 
- ii -
§ 221.4 — 
SUPPLEMENT 
* 
X 
it 
* 
& 
(f) Minimum equity ratio. 
The minimum equity ratio of 
s credit subject to § 221,1 is 40 percent. 

17 39 
TITLE 12 -- BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II -- FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A -- BOARD OF GOVERNORS CF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
FART 220 — CREDIT BY BROKERS AND DEALERS 
Same-day Substitutions 
Correction 
The document amending Part 220 of Chapter II of Title 12 of 
t 1 l f t c
°da of Federal Regulations, published in the Federal Register on 
J u l
-y 15, 1972, at 3/ F,R. 13972, is corrected at 13973 by inserting the 
vorda "the computation for" in. § 220.3(g)(2) in the first sentence 
®£ter the words "section 0(g)/' and deleting all the words in the 
> I 
'
X X B t
 sentence alter "transactions on a given day," and the first two 
V , o r d a
 ^.n the second sentence. As corrected 5 220.3(g)(2) will read: 
(2) 
In the case of an account subject to section 8(g), the 
t o
H » u teflon for the required deposit, under paragraph ( b ) ( 1 ) ( H ) of 
section in connection with transactions on a given day, may be 
ot the close of trading on such day and shall be made exclusive 
o f
 any deposit of cash, deposit of securities, covering transactions 
o t
h e r liquidation that has been effected on such day, pursuant to 
*r'i -
" ~ requirements of paragraph (b) or (e) of this section, in connection 
v,
ith f; transaction on a previous day. 
)}y order of the Board of Governors July 
24, 1972. 
(Signed) Michael A„ Greenspan 
1 3
 ^ J 
lu chae 1 AT li^mapan 
Asals :anC Secretary 

1SC0 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
,.'*0nc« 
OF THE 
---
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7 / 1 2 / 7 2 
1 ; 
p 
WASHINGTON. 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S DFTiC I A L nORKTSPCNUENCE 
T O 
T H E 
H Q A R D 
July 12, 1972 
B
oarcl of Directors 
Security National Bank 
Hempstead, Nov York 
Gentlemen: 
This refers 
to the application dated May 17, 1972, from 
Your bank, submitted through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
for permission to maintain reserves against deposits on the basis 
S q u i r e d of banks not in a reserve city, for a period of six months 
following the merger of your bank on May 5 with Royal National Bank 
until ll\e effective date of proposed changes in this Board's 
Regulations D and J . 
The first step of the revisions in Regulations D and J 
fill become effective with the statement week beginning September 21, 3 972, 
While the Board recognizes that the coincidence of timing of your 
Wile's merger and the Board's restructuring of reserves requirements 
*or all member banks places your bank temporarily in an undesirable 
Position, it believes that until the revised Regulations are in 
effect the existing Regulations should be applied uniformly to all 
tttetnber banks. 
Since your bank is classified as a reserve city bank 
and by size, location, and declared intention of competing with other 
reserve city banks would not be eligible for reduced reserves, the 
ftoard i y of the opinion that it would not be justified in granting 
deduced reserves in anticipation of the general change in reserves 
structure. 
The Board has, therefore, denied the request for reduced 
deserves. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A . Greenspan 
Michael A . Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1801 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
. . . . . . 
O R THE; 
Item No. 10 
J P f e , 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/12/72 
. \ 
' 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
'.r^/ifii 
r. 
ADDRESS DKrlCIAC CO^rttSFDNOrNCE. 
' 
' 
' 
' 
' 
T O 
T H E 
F I L A H O 
•mm 
July 12, 1972 
'Hie Chare Manhattan Eank, National Association 
Chase Manhattan P.lav;a 
Nr,v/ York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference. is made to your letter of February 22, 1972, 
and . S e q u e n t correspondence regarding your - < u e s t to a c q u i r e ^ 
additional shares in your wholly-o^it-d 
sici..r> , 
Bank (Switzerland). 
Reference is also made to t a e . e e t i n g on 
July 6, 1972, between your representatives and Vice Chairman Robe.,. ... 
and members of the Board's staff. 
rno Board has reviewed further the question of information 
furnished to U.S. supervisory authorities about the operations 
ana activities of your Swiss subsidiary an.l the proposals put for 
Ward by your representatives for satisfying U.S. supervisory requive-
fonts. 
The Board has concluded that it will grant approval to y o u . 
o r J . . if a firm commitment is obtained from your bank that, 
by means of^ customers' waivers or otherwise, f o r m a t i o n adequate 
to fl,e .K-eds of U.S. supervisors, as previously outiineu to rep.e 
sentl>Hvou of your bank, will be maintained within your bank or wrrl 
be otherwidfc available to examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1802 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 11 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7/12/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A O O H C S S ornciAL 
U A n n T R S I - N N E N C E 
TCI T H E 
B O A R D 
July 12. 1972 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
ft anki ng Co rp o ration 
3- Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New Yorkj, N e w York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
> 
As requested i n your letter of January 4, 1972, the Poard 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CMOBC") to purchase 
and hold up to 33 per cent of the capital stock of Alliance Holdings 
Limited ("AllL"), 
Sydney. Australia, at a cost of up to approximately 
$12,500,000, less any amount acquired b y Chase Manhattan International 
^ankiny'Corporation, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
i-rom the date of this letter. 
In this connect ion, approval is a) so 
granted for the purchase and holding; of shares of AHL in excess of 
10 par cent: of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
It is noted that the activities of MIL. including those 
conducted through subsidiaries, are predominantly of a banking and 
financial nature but that they also include a minor amount (about 
one per cent of AHL's total business) of hotel, real estate and 
insurance o pera t ion s. 
t 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That AHL shall confine its activities to inter-
national or foreign banking and other international 
or foreign financial operations, except that AHL may 
continue to engage in present nonfiriancial activities 
in which it is now actively engaged, so long as they 
remain of the same character and insubstantial in 
proportion to the total business of AHL; 
(2) 
That representation of CMOBC and its affiliates on 
the Board of Directors of MIL and among A H L
1
s officers . 
shall be limited to that described in your application; 

1803 
Chose. Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
(3) That CKOBC shall maintain at its head office adequate 
financial, and operating information regarding AHL's 
activities. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1804 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
. . ^ O V ' C C V ; . • 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 12 
/ ^ V ^ f e 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
7/12/72 
' jIU^.t"-" • •
 Vv
*\iS* 
WASHINGTON, U. C. 20551 
. 
* I (< F' 
A ' . 
A D D R E S S u r n c i A i 
C O N K E S < > U N O E N A £ 
T O THE: 
P U A D C 
July 12, 1972 
Chase: Manhattan International 
Banking Corpo ration 
P. 0. Box 92905 
Los Angeles, California 
90009 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 4, 1972,^the Board 
of Governors, grants consent for your Corporation ("CMIBC") to pur-
chase and hold up to 17 per cent of the capital stock of Alliance 
Holdings Limited ("AHL
1 1
} , Sydney, Australia, at a cost of up to 
approximately $5,000,000, provided the shares are acquired w i t n m 
one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, approval 
is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of AliL by 
your Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set rorth 
in the provisions of Section 25(a) [U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Feoeral 
Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K . 
It is noted that the activities of MIL, including those 
conducted through subsidiaries, are predominantly of a banking and 
financial nature but that they also include a minor amount (about 
one per cent of AHL's total business) of hotel, real estate, and 
insurance operations. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) 
That AHL shall confine its activities to inter-
national or foreign banking and other inter-
national or foreign financial operations, except 
that AHL may continue to engage in present non-
financial activities in which it is now actively 
engaged, so long as they remain of the same 
character and insubstantial in proportion to the 
total business of AHL; 
(?.) That representation of CMIBC and its affiliater. 
on the Board of Directors of AHL and among AHL s 
officers shall be limited to that described in 
your app11ca t i on; and 

1805 
To; 
Chase Manhattan International 
Banking Corporation 
(3) 
That CMIBC shall maintain at its head office 
adequate financial and operating information 
regarding AHL's activities. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be"made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, Nationa, Association 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1808 
Item N o . 13 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/12/72 
NORTH AMERICAN MORTGAGE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of a Bank 
North American Mortgage Corporation, St. Petersburg, Florida, 
a
 bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 23.9 per cent of the voting shares of 
The American Bank, St. Petersburg, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new 
hank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
Accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
views has expired. 
The Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls one bank, the American National Bank of 
Clearwater, Clearwater, Florida ("American National"), with deposits 
°f $11.2 million, representing 0,1 per cent of total commercial 
hank deposits in the State. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) 
Approval of the acquisition of Bank would not presently increase 
Applicant's deposits since Bank is a proposed new bank. 
Moreover, 
Applicant is one of the smallest banking organizations in the State 
°f Florida. 
Bank's location is in the fastest growing area in greater 
St. Petersburg, 
The relevant market appears to be somewhat under-
banked. 
American National is located 19 miles from the proposed 

1807 
-2-
s
ite of the Bank, with a number of banks and geographical barriers 
in the intervening area. 
The Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in 
a
ay relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f
 Applicant, its subsidiary bank, and Bank are regarded as generally 
satisfactory and consistent with approval. 
Considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the community lend some weight in favor 
o f
 approval since Bank will be able to provide a convenient, additional 
service for banking in the fastest growing area in greater S t . Peters-
b u
^ g . 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would 
b e
 in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
Applicant is a one-bank holding company that is engaged in 
c e
r t a i n mortgage banking and insurance agency activities. 
These 
a c
t i v i t i e s appear to fall within the proviso in § 4(a)(2) of the Bank 
Holding Company A c t , as amended, the so-called "grandfather" provision. 
Ihe approval herein neither provides 
authority to Applicant to con-
tinue in the nonbank activities nor to retain nonbanlc shares nor requires 
the Applicant to modify or terminate said activities or holdings. 
How-
l e r , consummation of the proposal herein is subject to the continuing 
authority of the Board to require modification or termination of such 
activities or holdings (within a period no shorter than 2 years), if the 
Board determines that the continued combination of banking and nonbanlcing 
interests is likely to have an adverse effect on the public interest. 

1808 
-2-
The provision of any credit, property or services by the 
h
°lding company or any affiliate thereof shall not be subject to 
a
^y condition w h i c h , if imposed by a b a n k , would constitute an 
^ l a w f u l tie-in arrangement under § 106 of the Bank Holding Company 
Amendments of 1970. The nonbanking activities of Applicant shall 
n
°t be altered in any significant respect from those engaged in at 
^ e time of the filing of the application herein nor shall they be 
Provided at any location other than as described in said application, 
e
Xcept upon compliance with the procedures of § 225.4(b)(1) of 
R e
g u l a t i o n Y; and no merger, or consolidation, or acquisition of 
assets other than in the regular course of business, to which 
Applicant or any affiliate thereof is a party, shall be consummated 
Without prior Board approval. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f
or the reasons summarized a b o v e . 
The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
Effective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the effective date of this Order, and provided further that (c) The 
American Bank shall be open for business not later than six months 
a
£ t e r the effective date of this O r d e r . 
The periods described in 

1803 
-2-
(b)
 a
nd (c) hereof may be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
b
y the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective July 13, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i ^ V o t i n g for this action; 
Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Sheehan^ and Bucher, 
Voting against this action: 
Governor Brimmer, on the basis of 
Principles previously discussed in his dissenting statement of 
July 7, 1972 in connection with the Board's Order approving the 
application of First National City Corporation to acquire the 
successor by merger to The National Exchange Bank of Castleton-
on-Hudson, 
Ab sent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell, 

1810 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
In my judgment, A Board review of the combination of a one 
bank holding company's bank and nonbank activities should precede 
Board approval of an application by such company to acquire an addi-
tional bank; and such order of approval should include, or be accom-
panied b y , any Board determination with respect to whether the Applicant 
shall modify or terminate its nonbank activities or holdings. 
In this case, the Board has approved, subject to a later 
review and determination, a procedure to which I do not subscribe 
a s
 a general rule. 
However, I have concurred in the approval (as 
in a similar case in the recent past) on the basis of the following 
considerations: 
(1) the Board's staff immediately will undertake a 
review of the activities of Applicant so that the 
Board may determine very shortly whether the com-
bination of banking and nonbanking interests in 
Applicant's holding company system is likely to 
have an adverse effect on the public interest, 
and 
(2) in the very near future, the Board will consider 
adopting a procedure designed to provide such 
review and determination prior to Board action 
on such an application and take appropriate steps 
to bring such procedure to the attention of all 
Applicants. 

1811 
-2-
Accordingly, I approve - in these limited circumstances, and 
because I am satisfied that there will follow 
shortly a review of 
Appli cant's activities and the adoption by the Board of an appropriate 
Procedure for evaluating a combination of bank and nonbank activities. 
J u
l y 17, 1972 
