Minutes for 
October 15, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
(3 
r 
l V 
) 
m 
"(M 
CJ>'/ 
A 
liilf 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 15, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 3:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestalj Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal Division 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
"Shell" facilities. At this meeting the Board continued its 
series of discussions of several pending applications for foreign 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

37S0 
10/15/68 
- 2 -
branches or overseas subsidiaries to be located in the Bahamas or 
elsewhere in the West Indies, the offices typically to be "shell" 
facilities consisting of an address, a set of books, and a part-time 
manager supplied in most cases by some institution currently operating 
in the area. At the previous discussion it had been understood that 
the staff would provide further analytical material, along with infor-
mation obtained through Federal Reserve Banks. 
Such material had now been -distributed to the Board under date 
of October 1, 1968. The documentation, which set forth the principal 
issues and staff recommendations, attached a summary of responses to 
the request for supplemental information that had been addressed to 
those Reserve Banks with institutions in their districts that had 
either established or applied for a branch in the Bahamas of the type 
in question. (The staff documents have been placed in the Board's 
files.) 
Mr. Sammons commented that the principal issues appeared to be 
related to balance of payments implications, equity considerations, 
and the image of the Federal Reserve. If dollar loans were made at 
the branches that could not be made at home offices under the foreign 
credit restraint guidelines, the balance of payments on the official 
settlements basis could be adversely affected. There might be some 
offset if the additional demand for Euro-dollars encouraged people to 
place their funds in Euro-dollars rather than foreign currencies. 

* > 
' 
10/15/68 
- 3 -
Whatever the effect on the balance of payments, however, it already 
existed, and in far greater magnitude, by virtue of the operations at 
the existing London branches of U.S. banks. The amount of risk that 
would be added by the operations of the proposed Nassau branches 
seemed marginal. 
The problem of equity arose because the foreign credit restraint 
program had admittedly frozen the competitive position of banks in their 
international business. Those banks that had a large corpus of foreign 
assets and were active internationally at the beginning of the program 
had been favored: first, because turnover provided a large volume of 
usable funds; second, because they could take care of their foreign 
customers through their London branches. The middle-sized banks--
those that had just begun foreign operations when the program was 
started or had small bases--felt that the credit restraint program was 
unfair. Permitting such banks to have Nassau branches would be one 
way of adjusting the competitive inequities. 
As to the problem of Federal Reserve image, an impression of 
impropriety might arise if the Board approved a branch that was merely 
a set of books kept by a third party in Nassau. However, it was diffi-
cult to specify just why or how this would be improper; the reaction 
seemed primarily emotional. In Mr. Sammons' view it was hard to distin-
guish between what the banks proposed to do in Nassau and what was al-
ready being done, on a much larger scale, by banks with London branches. 

o i * A* 
10/15/68 
- 4 -
Mr. Shay expressed the view that either approval or disapproval 
could be defended. He did not think a branch should be required to 
provide full services, especially abroad, or that it necessarily had 
to be set up in such a way as to deal with people from the street. Its 
physical facilities should simply be economically appropriate in the 
light of the business to be transacted. If an office was not to pro-
vide full services to local parties, a minimum of equipment and full-
time personnel might be indicated. • If he correctly understood the 
terms of the pending applications, the proposed offices would accept 
and pay out deposits, which might provide technical justification for 
regarding such an office as conducting a significant banking function. 
On the other hand, the Board might consider that the functions to be 
performed were not of sufficient substance to qualify the office to be 
a branch, at least in the conventional sense. In summary, he believed 
that a straightforward explanation could be given for approval, from 
the legal standpoint. 
Mr. Doyle also expressed the belief that as a legal matter 
approval of the branches could be justified. However, he believed 
questions were presented whether in effect deposits would be received 
and paid out in Nassau or whether everything of substance would not 
really be done at the head office. In the latter event, an argument 
could be made that the requirements of Regulation D (Reserves of Mem-
ber Banks) and Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on Deposits) should 

o rf U kJ 
10/15/68 
- 5 -
apply. In his view the applications reflected primarily the problem 
of the foreign credit restraint guidelines. The fact that the shell 
operations seemed necessary to the applicant banks illustrated the 
inequity that seemed to be built into the guidelines, and he was not 
sure that shell branches were the best way to alleviate the inequity. 
Rather than allow such a loophole in the applicability of Regulations 
D and Q, it might be better to adjust the guidelines in some manner. 
Mr. Solomon observed that hank supervisors usually liked to 
see a branch office separately maintained, staffed, and organized 
simply from the point of view of controlling the soundness of opera-
tions and to avoid confusing the assets and liabilities of such an 
office with those of some other organization. However, separation was 
a means to an end. If the end could be achieved by some other method, 
he did not see any reason to require a large staff, equipment, or 
space. With respect to the proposed branches, it seemed that the 
Board could be assured that there would be no reasonable likelihood 
of confusing the assets and liabilities with those of other operations. 
Therefore, from the supervisory point of view, he did not believe it 
was necessary to establish requirements in terms of separate quarters, 
staff, and equipment. In his view the dangers that denial would seek 
to prevent already existed with respect to other foreign branches of 
U.S. banks. 

o <• i>4 
10/15/68 
- 6 -
Governor Mitchell commented that after careful study of the 
staff presentations he had reached agreement with the staff position. 
However, he regarded the situation as an unfortunate one. The problem 
had arisen because of the foreign credit restraint program which, 
although proclaimed to be temporary, was now going into its fifth 
year. On various occasions the Board had expressed concern about the 
inequity of freezing people in market positions, so it would seem 
inconsistent to be indifferent aboui: freezing smaller banks out of the 
foreign market. Therefore, while he had some reservations, given the 
alternatives available he thought the best solution to the problem 
would be to permit the establishment of the shell branches, but to 
watch their operations carefully to be sure they were not draining 
deposits from the home offices. 
Governor Daane said that, although he had studied the problem 
at length and had reviewed it with staff both individually and collec-
tively, he was still undecided as to exactly what position to take. 
The issue with respect to equity was clear, and might be persuasive, 
but he was troubled by the lack of full knowledge regarding some of 
the other issues. He was willing to accept the staff's judgment that 
denial was not called for on balance of payments grounds, although he 
believed there was evidence that the proposed branches might take some 
deposits that otherwise would come to the home offices. He was not 
sure a complete explanation had been given of the reasons for the shell 

3705 
10/15/68 
- 7 -
branches, apart from avoidance of the foreign credit restraint program. 
Also, he was not certain that the Board knew all there was to know 
about the effects of the operations of London branches, and it might 
be well to take a new, hard look at those operations. 
In short, Governor Daane continued, he was rather reluctant 
to approve the proposed branches without some assurance that if prob-
lems appeared the Board would be prepared to deal with them. He would 
feel less uneasy if there was a contingency plan in readiness to deal 
with possible developments. Such a plan should be addressed not only 
to balance of payments considerations but also to other supervisory 
and regulatory aspects. He subscribed to Governor Mitchell's comment 
about the need to be watchful and would advocate setting up a surveil-
lance system, preferably in advance. He would also like to have some 
additional knowledge concerning the operations of London branches. If 
a decision had to be made today, however, he would reluctantly go 
ahead. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that a basic uncertainty 
lay in the implications of the development of two separate banking 
systems, one international and one domestic but both denominated in 
dollars. Very little was known about the interrelationships. But 
that was a topic much broader than the specific question with respect 
to the proposed Nassau branches. He saw little if any difference 
between these applications and others on which the Board had made deci-
sions. Therefore, he would be willing to vote for approval. 

3706 
10/15/68 
- 8 -
Governor Brimmer said he would not approve the applications. 
He stressed that permitting the establishment of shell branches was 
not the only way to deal with the problem of inequity in the foreign 
credit restraint program. The revised guidelines for 1969 that were 
now being proposed contemplated restoration of the so-called "two per 
cent rule," which would give middle-sized banks a higher ceiling 
within which to make export loans and loans to developed countries 
from their own domestic resources. . In his judgment, that would be a 
better way to deal with the problem of inequity. The question of 
equal access to the Euro-dollar market was not one to which a great 
deal of weight should be given; he saw no reason to say that every 
bank should be able to participate in that market regardless of the 
cost to the domestic banking system as a whole, particularly in terms 
of avoidance of the requirements of Regulations D and Q. He was con-
cerned that unsound banking practices not be tolerated under the guise 
of rectifying inequities stemming from the balance of payments program. 
He had no doubt, Governor Brimmer said, but that approval of 
the Nassau branches would do damage to the image of the Federal Reserve. 
The very term "shell branches" connoted a type of operation that the 
System should not be in the position of endorsing. He did not believe, 
as a matter of policy, that the Board should adopt a position which 
would make it possible for banks to do through shell branches what 
they could do at head offices, without meeting the requirements that 

10/15/68 
- 9 -
would be applicable in the latter case. He would prefer to amend the 
guidelines of the foreign credit restraint program, and accept whatever 
risk was involved, rather than to set out in a back-handed way to 
alter the banking system. 
Governor Sherrill said he had come out at much the same place 
as Governor Maisel. He had tried to establish some fundamental differ-
entiation between the shell branches and existing foreign branches, 
but he could not find it. He realized that the U.S. banks did not 
intend to make decisions at the shell branches, but he was not sure how 
many decisions really were made at the existing foreign branches. It 
seemed entirely possible that the banks would make all major decisions 
at their head offices in either case. Further, if the Federal Reserve 
was going to permit an international banking system denominated in 
dollars to be operated by American banks, he saw no reason why banks 
of medium size should not be allowed to participate. As to competitive 
effects, he had recently learned from a friend engaged in international 
business that the latter had changed banking connections because the 
bank with which he originally did business did not have any foreign 
branches. If, as seemed probable, that was typical, a move on the 
part of medium-sized banks to establish branches would be primarily 
defensive. 
It appeared, Governor Sherrill said, that the Nassau branches 
would by and large be dealing with money that was already committed 

3708 
10/15/68 
-10-
internationally, and that their operations would not have any great 
balance of payments impact. He did not really see that a case could 
be made that the balance of payments would be seriously affected. Like 
Governor Brimmer, he was bothered that the "shell" concept did not 
sound right, but he was unable to find substantial reasons for not 
approving the proposed branches. A study in depth of the ramifications 
of an international banking system denominated in dollars seemed war-
ranted, but for now he would approve the shell branch applications. 
Governor Robertson stated that his views largely coincided 
with those expressed by Governor Brimmer. He had no sympathy for the 
equity argument. If that argument were given weight, it would be 
necessary to consider the possibility of a thousand or more U.S. banks 
having shell branches, each with a desk-drawer office in Nassau but 
essentially conducting business from their head offices. The equity 
argument, if there was one, applied to the credit restraint program as 
a whole. Moreover, the program was a temporary one, and after it was 
abandoned the shell offices would remain. 
Governor Robertson believed the purpose behind the shell 
branch applications was evasion, not only of the credit restraint pro-
gram but also Regulations D and Q. He did not think that when the 
Congress gave the Board authority to approve foreign branches it 
intended that that authority would permit a scheme under which foreign 
branches could be set up simply in order to escape domestic regulatory 

O i J 
10/15/68 
-11-
requirements. A suggestion had been made that the branches be approved 
with the right reserved to rescind the approval. However, he did not 
think it was realistic to expect that it would be feasible to take 
away something that had been granted. 
Further, Governor Robertson said, it was necessary to have 
regard for the future. Five or ten years from now there might be a 
different problem, one in which money sucked in from abroad would 
affect monetary policy. He believe'd that if these branches were 
approved the time was approaching when Regulations D and Q would have 
to be made applicable across the board, and he thought that time should 
be put off as long as possible. Furthermore, he agreed that the use 
of the term "shell" in itself indicated that a subterfuge was involved. 
The arrangement would not be a branch operation but simply a record-
keeping device under which everything would be done by the head office. 
Chairman Martin commented that he did not like the connotations 
of the name "shell," but he did not know how that could be changed. 
He thought it was not easy to deny the applications unless there was a 
sound legal basis for doing so. It was not clear to him whether denial 
could be justified, as a temporary expedient, because of the restraint 
program. 
Governor Robertson replied that denial was within the Board's 
legal authority. The question whether or not to approve the branches 
was a policy matter. He believed that the Board would be justified in 
saying that it had doubts about the whole shell branch program, that 

3710 
10/15/68 
-12-
questions of the relationships between domestic and international 
banking were involved, and that at least as long as the restraint 
program continued the Board would refrain from approving such branches. 
Governor Daane inquired how those who took the negative view 
dismissed the point made by the staff that there was no difference in 
principle between the operations of the proposed branches and those 
of the existing London branches. The operations of the former would 
be miniscule in comparison with those of the latter. 
Governor Robertson responded that at the beginning of the 
restraint program the banks with foreign branches were put in a favor-
able position. Since then there had been efforts, within the context 
of the program, to offset that advantage. The question of equity must 
be looked at not as between the banks that had applied for "shell" 
branches and the large banks that had London branches, but as between 
these applicants and all of the other banks in the U.S. The latter 
had just as much right to avoid Regulations D and Q and to obtain 
funds from abroad. 
Governor Mitchell expressed doubt that a bank with $20 million 
of deposits was going to be interested in having a shell branch. More 
important, however, was the argument that the shell branch was the 
poor man's escape hatch. The Board had not turned down foreign branch 
applications of the London variety, which were the rich man's escape 
hatch. Moreover, the staff took the position that, oti the basis of 

O / 
10/15/68 
-13-
available information, there was no reason to expect that the proposed 
branches would have prejudicial effects on the U.S. balance of pay-
ments. If such effects should emerge, the Board could take steps to 
cope with them. In the circumstances, he thought the equity argument 
was a powerful one. 
Governor Daane inquired whether those who favored approval 
shared his view that such action should be linked with some system of 
surveillance and the development of- a contingency plan to deal with 
possible adverse developments, and Governor Mitchell said he would 
have no objection. Mr. Holland mentioned that several possibilities 
for additional surveillance over foreign banking operations of U.S. 
banks were under study. These, however, were not yet at an advanced 
enough stage for Board evaluation. Governor Sherrill said he thought 
two types of surveillance were indicated. The first related to the 
foreign credit restraint program--to determine whether deposits at 
the shell branches would otherwise be deposits at the home offices. 
The second related to the question of allowing U.S. banks to operate 
internationally without being subject to Regulations D and Q. 
Chairman Martin raised a question as to the effect on the 
shell branches if the foreign credit restraint program were abandoned. 
Governor Maisel replied that he would not want to rest a deci-
sion on that point, because it could be met in other ways. His more 
basic concern related to Regulations D and Q. As long as the Board had 

V 7 * 
i jL/*>m/ 
10/15/68 
-14-
allowed existing foreign branch operations to be exempt from the 
requirements of those regulations, he did not know how a line could 
be drawn. 
Governor Brimmer observed that historically the assumption 
had been that foreign branches would be doing a local banking business, 
and to subject them to the regulations would place them at a disadvan-
tage vis-a-vis foreign banks operating in the same location. The 
intent had not been to give them an advantage over banks operating in 
the U.S. Approval of the proposed shell branches would have exactly 
that effect. With respect to the question Chairman Martin had raised, 
he believed that if the restraint program were ended tomorrow the 
interest in shell branches would be ended, except for the advantage 
resulting from the exemption from Regulations D and Q. 
Governor Sherrill said he thought that escape was definitely 
what was influencing the desire for shell branches, but that there 
were also deeper reasons relating to the question of the most effi-
cient way of engaging in foreign banking. He did not believe the 
Board had yet caught up fully with the whole concept of the Euro-
dollar market, which had altered foreign banking concepts signifi-
cantly. 
Chairman Martin observed that if, as a temporary expedient, 
the Board could take the position that it would not approve shell 
branches so long as the restraint program was in effect, that would 

10/15/68 
-15-
be one way out. However, if the proposed branches were really going 
to conduct an international banking business, it would seem difficult 
to make the case for denial. The question of international banking 
was basic to the situation, and he did not know to what extent it had 
evolved. That was at the heart of the problem. The word "shell" was 
unfortunate, and it would be helpful if a better one could be found. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the Board consider further 
the aspects of the problem vis-a-vis the restraint program. He doubted 
whether it would be worth while to continue the program if every time 
a point of pressure emerged the Board endorsed the efforts of banks to 
get around it. It had seemed wise to keep the program on a voluntary 
basis as long as the banks were prepared to operate within the guide-
lines, but the proposed branches would make it possible for banks to 
operate outside the guidelines at no cost. 
In response to a request for comment on the magnitudes involved, 
Mr. Sammons discussed the size of the applicant banks, most of which 
had relatively small ceilings under the restraint program. On the 
question whether a large number of banks might seek to establish shell 
branches, he believed that the number would be self-limiting. As long 
as a bank had some leeway under the program it was less likely to turn 
to this route. Also, it seemed to him that the Board could take the 
stand that it was unwilling to approve a branch for a bank that had not 
previously engaged in foreign business and exhibited, some ability to 
conduct foreign operations. 

371 
10/15/68 
-16-
Governor Maisel suggested that the problem of terminology might 
be solved simply by calling the offices "Nassau branches." Although 
the foreign credit restraint program may have forced the issue, he did 
not think the real problem lay in the restraint program, or that 
approval of the applications would necessarily break down the program. 
The basic problem, which was far more complex, involved questions such 
as whether the Board should begin to obtain complete reports on what 
U.S. banks were doing abroad, in or/ier to form better judgments regard-
ing how they should be controlled. One question in that respect was 
whether foreign branches should be subject to Regulations D and Q and, 
if so, to what extent. However, at this point he did not see that it 
was necessary to draw a line against the Nassau branches. 
Chairman Martin then observed that a detailed reporting pro-
gram, while good in theory, might not be easy to institute in practice. 
Mr. Sammons described data now being collected by the Treasury Depart-
ment, which, however, would have to be supplemented to provide complete 
information on the activities of foreign branches, including those in 
Nassau. 
After further discussion of a basis on which approval might 
be justified, possibly conditioned upon such reporting requirements 
as the Board at any time considered necessary, Governor Brimmer observed 
that whereas he had requested the staff to assemble a rationale for 
denial, the distributed material seemed to emphasize•the case for 

10/15/68 
-17-
approval. Ensuing comments indicated that the staff presentation was 
intended to reflect a balanced judgment based on divided views. Gov-
ernor Brimmer stated that he still would like to have a presentation 
in support of denial, and it was understood that the staff would 
develop such a document. 
Governor Maisel commented that, since several members of the 
Board appeared to be inclined to give the matter further study, he 
believed he could develop a firmer-view on the basis of seeing a 
letter drawn up in terms of permitting limited branches subject to 
certain conditions. At the same time the staff could prepare a paper 
such as Governor Brimmer had requested. 
Governor Robertson suggested that the staff also give thought 
to the kind of surveillance system that might be instituted. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the matter would be considered further after the staff had provided 
the additional documentation requested. 
Several members of the staff withdrew at this point and Messrs. 
Garwood and Schober of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
entered the room along with Mr. Fleming, Consultant on truth in lend-
ing matters. 
Truth in lending. A press statement had been issued for 
release on October 16 regarding publication for public comment of the 
proposed Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. At today's meeting Messrs. 
Solomon, Fleming, Schober, and Garwood reviewed the more significant 

10/15/68 
-18-
sections of the proposed regulation and responded to questions by-
members of the Board. 
Governor Robertson then described the exploratory work that 
was in progress looking toward development of methods for making the 
public aware of the requirements of the regulation. This problem, he 
said, would be brought before the Board for consideration later, with 
staff recommendations. 
Governor Daane withdrew during the preceding discussion. At 
its conclusion all members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and 
Kenyon also withdrew. 
Leave of absence for Mr. Sammons. Governor Sherrill presented 
a memorandum from Mr. Solomon, Director of the Division of International 
Finance, dated October 9, 1968, recommending that Robert L. Sammons, 
As sociate Director, be granted a leave of absence without pay for two 
years in order to permit him to accept an assignment with the Economics 
Directorate of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Develop-
ment in Paris. The Department of State would offer Mr. Sammons a post 
as Foreign Service Reserve Officer at his present salary, with the 
normal allowances pertinent thereto, and then lend him to OECD. Mr. 
Sammons1 service would begin some time between January 1 and February 1, 
1969, the exact date to be left open for determination by Mr. Solomon 
with due regard to the Board's work program and other factors involved. 

O «JL < 
10/15/68 
-19-
The loan of Mr. Sammons1 services for the purpose indicated 
was approved unanimously. There was some discussion of the detailed 
procedural arrangements that would be most desirable, reference being 
made, among other things, to the arrangements under which other mem-
bers of the Board's staff had been made available in the past for 
similar assignments. This question was referred to Governor Sherrill 
with power to act. 
Political activity. The Secretary referred to a press article 
that had been called to the Board's attention by the President of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas with regard to the membership of M. 
Steele Wright, Jr., a director of the Houston Branch, on the steering 
committee of an organization supporting a candidate for the office of 
President of the United States. Mr. Holland reported that upon further 
investigation it had been ascertained that the scope of Mr. Wright's 
participation apparently was limited to the signing of a card indicating 
his preference for the specified candidate. In previous cases the 
Board had expressed no objection to similar activities. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
