609 
Minutes for 
March 24, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor SherrilT 

1000 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, March 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Mertz, Noble, and Via of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of National Bank of Westchester, 
White Plains, New York, into National Bank of Westchester, White 
Plains, White Plains, New York, was approved unanimously for transmit-
tal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion stated that 

3/24/69 
-2-
consummation of the proposed merger would, in itself, have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Newport National Bank, Newport Beach, California, with New-
port Bank, N.A., also of Newport Beach, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion stated 
that consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse compet-
itive effects. 
Applications of Denver U.S. Bancorporation (Items 1-5). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on February 24, 1969, of the application of Denver 
U.S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Arkansas Valley Bank, Pueblo, Colorado. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
There had also been distributed drafts of an order and state-
ment reflecting the Board's approval on February 24, 1969, of the 
application of Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Inc., to acquire 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of The Boudre Valley National Bank 
of Fort Collins, Fort Collins, Colorado. A dissenting statement by 
Governor Robertson had also been distributed. 
Governor Mitchell raised a question regarding whether the 
draft majority statement correctly reflected the findings on a point 

3/24/69 
-2-
the staff had been requested to explore during consideration of the 
application, namely, the prospect of an increased flow of loan funds 
to the Fort Collins area. Issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized with the understanding that Mr. O'Connell would review the 
record in light of the question Governor Mitchell had raised. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued 
are attached as Items 3 and 4. A copy of Governor Robertson's dissent 
ing statement is attached as Item No. 5. 
Application of B.N.Y. Company (Items 6-12). There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on February 18, 1969, of the application of The B.N.Y. 
Company, Inc., New York, New York, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of all of the outstanding voting shares of 
The Bank of New York, New York City; The County Trust Company, White 
Plains; Mechanics and Farmers Bank of Albany, Albany; Endicott Bank 
°f New York, Endicott (the successor, by conversion to State charter, 
°f The Endicott National Bank, Endicott); The Exchange Bank of Olean 
(the successor, by conversion to State charter, of The Exchange 
National Bank of Olean, Olean); Metropolitan Bank of Syracuse (the 
successor, by conversion to State charter, of Metropolitan National 
Bank of Syracuse, Syracuse); and Niagara Frontier Bank of New York, 
Buffalo, a proposed new bank. A dissenting statement by Governor 
Robertson also had been distributed. 

3/24/69 
-2-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 6 and 7. A copy of 
Governor Robertson's dissenting statement is attached as Item No. 8. 
In connection with the approval of the holding company appli-
cation on February 18, 1969, the Board also approved applications for 
membership in the Federal Reserve System of Endicott Bank of New York, 
The Exchange Bank of Olean, Metropolitan Bank of Syracuse, and Niagara 
Frontier Bank of New York, with the understanding that the banks would 
be informed of this action at the time the order and statement were 
issued. Copies of the letters sent to the banks are attached as 
Items 9-12. 
Applications of Otto Bremer (Items 13 and 14). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated March 13, 1969, from Mr. Hexter relating 
to the requests of Otto Bremer Company and Otto Bremer Foundation, both 
of St. Paul, Minnesota, for determinations that the planned insurance 
agency activities of five proposed nonbanking subsidiaries were of the 
kind described in section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act so 
as to make inapplicable the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act with 
respect to the ownership of shares in nonbanking companies. The pur-
pose of the proposed subsidiaries was to place in separate corporations 
the general insurance agency business now conducted by each of the 
holding company's five subsidiary banks so as to protect those banks 
from liabilities arising out of their insurance operations. 

1004 
3/24/69 
-10-
In accordance with the statutory requirement a hearing had 
been held on the applications, and the hearing examiner recommended 
that the Board decline to make the requested determinations, princi-
pally on the ground that all activities of the proposed companies must 
be tied to bank-related transactions. It was the opinion of the Gen-
eral Counsel that such a position was erroneous. His memorandum cited 
previous Board interpretations of section 4(c)(8) that held that it 
was necessary only that there be a direct and significant connection 
between the contemplated activities of an insurance agency and the 
business of banking. 
Mr. Hexter indicated that he was bringing the matter to the 
attention of the Board before proceeding under delegated authority in 
order to obtain the views of the members of the Board. 
Discussion revealed that the majority of the Board members 
present were in agreement with Mr. Hexter's proposal to approve the 
applications, particularly in view of the precedent established by 
Previous Board decisions. One member, Governor Robertson, said that 
if the decision were up to him he would support the recommendation of 
the hearing examiner. His view was based on the fact that he did not 
believe a section 4(c)(8) determination was warranted where only a 
small percentage of the business of an agency related to bank trans-
actions . 
Mr. Hexter noted that Governor Robertson's view was not based 
°n the position of the hearing examiner that all of the activities of 

1005 
3/24/69 
-10-
the agency must be so closely related to the business of banking as to 
be a proper incident thereto. In the judgment of the Legal Division 
the hearing examiner's position in that regard was erroneous. The 
question Governor Robertson was raising was whether the Board had gone 
too far in making favorable determinations where only a small percent-
age of an agency's business was bank-related. This was of course a 
matter of judgment, and in some cases the Board had gone fairly far. 
If this were a new matter, he (Mr. Hexter) would be inclined to inter-
pret the statute as not contemplating a favorable section 4(c)(8) 
determination where there was only a very small percentage of bank-
related transactions. 
After further discussion it was understood that the General 
Counsel would proceed under delegated authority. 
Secretary's Note: On March 25, 1969, Mr. 
Hexter, acting under delegated authority, 
granted the requests of Otto Bremer Company 
and Otto Bremer Foundation for the afore-
mentioned determinations. Attached as 
Items 13 and 14 are copies of the relevant 
order and statement. 
Interpretations under Regulation Z. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from Governor Robertson dated March 20, 1969, recommending 
that the Board authorize him, or in his absence, Mr. Solomon, Director 
°f the Division of Supervision and Regulation, to approve interpreta-
tions of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending, on behalf of the Board. 
At today's meeting Governor Robertson observed that it was 
Probable that during the next few months there would be numerous 

1006 
3/24/69 
-10-
requests for interpretations, the majority of which would be technical 
in nature. Both as a time-saving device from the standpoint of the 
Board and in the interest of expediting replies, many of which would 
be to other enforcing agencies, he suggested that these technical 
questions be handled in the manner recommended, with the understanding 
that any questions of substance would be brought to the Board for 
consideration. 
Governor Brimmer favored such an approach, adding that the 
Board might wish to consider amending its rules of delegation for the 
purpose of granting authority to Governor Robertson to act on behalf 
of the Board. 
Governor Mitchell raised the question of the role of the Legal 
Division in interpretating the Board's regulations, and Mr. Hackley 
commented that the Board might be subject to criticism if there were 
any formal delegation by the Board of authority to interpret the law. 
He expressed the view that as a legal matter it would not be proper 
for an individual to issue an interpretation as an expression of the 
opinion of the Board unless the matter had in fact been considered by 
the Board. However, it would not be objectionable for an interpreta-
tion to be issued as the opinion of the individual. Mr. Hexter noted 
that on occasion the Securities and Exchange Commission staff issued 
interpretations, cautioning the public that the opinions were not an 
official expression of the Commission's views. 

1007 
3/24/69 
-10-
Governor Brimmer noted that the objectives were to remove 
uncertainties regarding Regulation Z and yet minimize the flow of 
items brought before the Board for consideration. Governor Mitchell 
said that if Mr. Solomon were to inform people, in given situations, 
as to his own view of the proper interpretation of provisions of the 
Regulation, that would be fine. If the inquirer was not satisfied, 
he could still come to the Board for an interpretation. This proce-
dure (the expression of personal opinion) might be adequate in a large 
majority of the cases. Governor Robertson agreed generally, adding 
that any matter involving an interpretation going beyond the literal 
meaning of the language of the Regulation should be brought before 
the Board. Governor Brimmer suggested that it might be helpful, 
particularly in the case of inquiries from the other enforcing agen-
cies, if opinions were issued over the signature of a member of the 
Board, in this case Governor Robertson. Governor Mitchell repeated 
that he would not object to either Governor Robertson or Mr. Solomon 
offering their views, with the understanding that they would not speak 
for the Board except as authorized. 
Following further discussion it was understood that Governor 
Robertson and Mr. Solomon would proceed for the time being in the 
manner suggested by the foregoing comments, and that in the light of 
developments they might bring back a further recommendation to the 
Board. 

1008 
3/24/69 
-10-
Regulations on advertising (Item No. 15). Governor Mitchell 
had previously reported on the stage to which consideration had 
progressed within the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation on 
draft regulations designed to foster greater clarity in advertising 
with respect to interest paid on deposits, indicating that it should 
soon be possible to publish the proposed regulations in the Federal 
Register for comment. 
There had now been distributed proposed amendments to Regula-
tion Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, which would be in a form 
compatible with the regulations to be issued by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, as well 
as a proposed Board press release. 
At today's meeting Governor Mitchell stated that Chairman 
Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had now suggested 
the following alternative language relating to the advertising of 
annual average percentage yields: "No bank shall advertise any 
average annual percentage yield achieved by compounding interest during 
a period in excess of a year unless such yield is clearly qualified by 
the following language: 
'This yield is an average annual yield that 
is obtained only if the deposit is held until the final indicated 
maturity and only if interest is not withdrawn until such maturity.'" 
Governor Mitchell said that Chairman Martin of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board reportedly was in the process of reconsidering 
the matter. 

1009 
3/24/69 
-10-
Reservations were expressed by some members of the Board as to 
the practicability of including a requirement for such a statement in 
every advertisement, but it appeared that the objections were not 
strong enough to preclude publication of the proposed regulations for 
comment. 
The Board then authorized publication in the Federal Register 
for comment of the proposed amendments to Regulation Q in a form 
finally worked out by Governor Mitchell with the other agencies con-
cerned. 
Secretary's Note: Attached as Item No. 15 
is a copy of the press release issued on 
March 28, 1969. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

loiO 
Item No. 1 
3/24/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
DENVER U. S. BANCORPORATION, INC., 
1 
Denver, Colorado, 
1 
for approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of Arkansas ' 
Valley Bank, Pueblo, Colorado. 
1 
- 
_ _ -
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Denver U. S. 
incorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding 
company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Arkansas Valley Bank, Pueblo, 
Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Colorado State 
®anking Board, and requested its views and recommendation. The State 
Banking Board recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on October 3, 1968 (33 Federal Register 14799), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of the 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 24th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Maisel and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1012 
Item No. 2 
3/24/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DENVER U. S. BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
ARKANSAS VALLEY BANK, PUEBLO, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to 
the Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior 
approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Arkansas Valley Bank, Pueblo, Colorado. Applicant 
controls six subsidiary banks with total deposits aggregating 
$497 million. 
Arkansas Valley Bank has total deposits of about 
$14 million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the 
aPplication was given to, and views and recommendation requested 
the Colorado State Banking Board, which recommended approval 
the application. 
PTanklng data arc as of June 29, 1968. The six aubaidlarybanka 
include The Poudre Valley National Bank of Fort Collins, Fort Collins, 
Colorado, whose acquisition by Applicant has been approved this date 
by the Board. 

-15-
1013 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination or 
conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve 
a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public 
inter est by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case 
Board is required to take into consideration the financial and 
managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
largest bank holding company in Colorado, "" and the State's 
*argest banking organization, controls 14.7 of total commercial bank 
deposits, Arkansas Valley Bank holds .4 per cent of total State 
dePosits, and 11.3 per cent of the deposits in Pueblo. 
V Giving effect to its proposed acquisition of The Poudre Valley 
National Bank of Fort Collins. See footnote 1. 

-3-
1014 
Arkansas Valley Bank's primary service area encompasses, 
generally, the City of Pueblo, which is the county seat of Pueblo 
County, and with a population of 104,000, is the largest city in 
southern Colorado. The closest population and marketing area of 
any size is the Colorado Springs area 43 miles to the north. Arkansas 
valley Bank ranks fourth in size of total deposits held of the seven 
commercial banks in Pueblo. The three larger banks hold 80 per cent 
total Pueblo deposits, and the three smaller banks combined hold 
per cent. Arkansas Valley Bank's chief competition is with the 
°ther banks in the city, which also are the only other banks in Pueblo 
County. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would not have a 
8ignlficant effect on State-wide concentration, and would have no 
effect on concentration in any relevant area within the State. Nor 
is there reason to believe that the proposed transaction would result 
a monopoly or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area. 
It does not appear that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
w°uld have any adverse effect on existing or potential competition. 
APPlicant's present subsidiary banks are all located more than 
1 0 0 m l l e s f r o m Arkansas Valley Bank and there is no significant 
Cotnpetition between any of them and Arkansas Vr.lley Bank. Potential 
CotnPetltion between Arkansas Valley Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries 
is limited by distance and by the State's prohibition against branch-
ln8« While affiliation of Arkansas Valley Bank with Applicant might 

'K-
reasonably be expected to increase the former's competitive 
effectiveness, this result is viewed by the Board as a desirable 
°ne which should not adversely affect the viability of its 
competitors. 
In light of the foregoing considerations, and all the 
facts of record, the Board concludes that consummation of the pro-
Posed transaction would not substantially lessen competition, tend 
to create a monopoly, nor in any other manner restrain trade in 
anV section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
T h e financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks 
is regarded as reasonably satisfactory, and would be improved by 
implementation of plans outlined by Applicant for retirement, within 
the next few months, of all short-term debt of the holding company, 
and for increasing the capital of two of the subsidiary banks. Manage-
of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is satisfactory, and their 
Prospects appear favorable. 
As related to Arkansas Valley Bank, these factors are viewed 
as reasonably satisfactory. However, it is noted that more experienced 
and greater depth of management is needed in Arkansas Valley Bank, and 
Could be realized upon its acquisition by Applicant. Considerations 
Under this factor are consistent with and weigh toward approval of 
t h e application. 

-5-
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
The major banking requirements of Fueblo appear adequately met by 
the existing banking structure. However, Applicant s proposal to 
have Arkansas Valley Bank initiate certain new services and improve 
listing ones, and, by means of loan participations, to enable 
Arkansas Valley Bank to attract larger borrowers than it can under 
U s 
present lending limits, should increase Arkansas Valley Bank s 
attractiveness as a banking alternative. This prospect, and that 
an additional source of expanded banking service, lead support 
to approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
fo*th in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
^he application should be approved. 
March 24, 1969. 

Item No. 3 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
3/24/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
DENVER U. S. BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
The Poudre Valley National Bank of 
Fo*t Collins, Fort Collins, Colorado. 
I 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
>': ...'V1- 
, . 
. ... . 
rV- ' 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regu-
lation Y ( 1 2 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Denver U. S. Bancorporation, 
*nc«> Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
^he voting shares of The Poudre Valley National Bank of Fort Collins, 
p°rt Collins, Colorado. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
th® Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
•PPlicatlon. 

1018 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 11, 1968 (33 Federal Register 9979), pro-
viding 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the appli-
Cation was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for 
lt:8 consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
B°ard's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
ls approved, provided that the application so approved shall not be 
C0r»8ummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
0rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
bv the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated 
authority. Dated at Washington, D. C., this 24th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Maisel and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

. 
& 
m i 
1019 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
3/24/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
DENVER U. S. BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE POUDRE VALLEY NATIONAL BANK OF FORT COLLINS, FORT COLLINS, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Poudre 
Galley National Bank of Fort Collins, Fort Collins, Colorado ("Poudre 
Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
o f the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
a&d recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t h e application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
QtlV part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
•U 
I'ii 
1 
M 
Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
,„ 
II 
v Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
® 
P® 
'm 
I W. 

-2-
1020 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
I 
> 
r' * 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
Prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
the second largest banking organization in the State, controls five 
subsidiary banks, all of which are located in Colorado. Its largest 
subsidiary bank, Denver United States National Bank, Denver, Colorado, 
has deposits of $405 million;"^deposits of the four other subsid-
i 
, 
2/ 
J-aries aggregate $65 million. 
Acquisition of Poudre Bank, which 
has deposits of $27 million, would make Applicant the largest banking 
°rganization in the State, with control of almost 15 per cent of the 
deposits held by all banks located therein, an increase of about 
Q per cent in its present share,, 
I 
1/ All banking data are as of June 29, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 
y In addition, the Board has today approved an application by Applicant 
t o acquire voting shares of Arkansas Valley Bank, Pueblo, Colorado, 
has total deposits of $14 million. Consummation of both that 
Proposal and the present one would result in Applicant's control of 
just over 15 per cent of deposits in the State. 

-15-
1021 
Poudre Bank is the second largest of four banks located 
in Fort Collins, and the second largest of ten banks located in 
Larimer County. The principal competitors of Poudre Bank are the 
larger bank in Fort Collins ($44 million deposits), which is a 
subsidiary of Western Bancorporation, a California-based holding 
company, and the two smaller, recently established banks in the 
city, which have deposits of $4 million and $2.6 million, respectively. 
Little competition is provided by the six outlying banks in Larimer 
County, which range in deposit size from $1.8 million to about 
$20 million. 
Fort Collins (population 40,000) is located about 65 miles 
n°tth of Denver, and about 30 miles northwest of Greeley, the site of 
APPUcant's closest subsidiary bank. There appears to be no signifi-
cant competition between Poudre Bank and any of Applicant's present 
Subsidiary banks. In view of a legal prohibition against branching 
in Colorado, potential competition would appear to depend upon the 
development of closer commercial relationships between the Fort Collins 
and Greeley areas. The existing highway structure in the intermediate 
area 
constitutes a barrier to the development of a homogeneous metro-
politan area, however, and makes it unlikely that significant compe-
tition would develop between Poudre Bank and Applicant's Greeley 
Subsidiary in the foreseeable future. The development of future compe-
tition with other subsidiaries of Applicant appears even less likely. 

1022 
-15-
With respect to the effect which the proposed acquisition 
would have on the three competing banks in Fort Collins, it appears 
that both Poudre Bank and the larger bank in that city are presently 
effective, full-service competitors, but that the smaller banks 
Presently compete principally in the area of personal services. It 
does not appear that any increase in the competitive ability of Poudre 
Bank as a result of Applicant's proposal would adversely affect the 
viability or competitive effectiveness of any of the competing banks 
A. 
co any undue extent. 
Consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly 
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
Monopolize, nor would it substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks 
is regarded as reasonably satisfactory, and would be Improved by 
Implementation of plans outlined by Applicant for retirement, within 
fche next few months, of all short-term debt of the holding company, 
an<* for increasing the capital of two of the subsidiary banks. Manage-
ment of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is satisfactory, and their 
Prospects appear favorable. 
The financial condition of Poudre Bank is satisfactory, and 
lts management, although somewhat lacking in experience, appears 
c°mpetent. Control of the bank is presently held by a corporation which 
haa been attempting to sell its holdings in the bank for about three 
years. 

1023 
-15-
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would provide Poudre 
Bank with stability of ownership and management. In that respect, 
considerations under the banking factors weigh in favor of approval 
of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed acquisition will not affect the convenience 
or needs of customers located in areas served by Applicant's present 
subsidiaries. 
Fort Collins is located in a valley lying immediately east 
of the Rocky Mountain foothills in north-central Colorado. The city 
is the seat of Larimer County, the home of Colorado State University, 
and the commercial and transportation center for the surrounding agri-
cultural region. Banking needs of the community appear to be ade-
quately served by four banks located there, although the two 
smaller banks in the city offer a much more limited range of services 
than Poudre Bank and its larger competitor. It is not anticipated 
that any significant new or improved services will result from Appli-
cant's ownership of Poudre Bank. However, all four banks in the area 
Maintain a relatively high ratio of loans to deposits, an indication 
the strong loan demand in the area. Cattle feeder loans are presently 
being handled through participations with correspondent banks. Although 
there is no evidence that credit-xvorthy borrowers are not presently 

1024 
-15-
being served, the ability of Applicant to provide the community with 
increased funds would provide added assurance of a continuing supply 
of loan funds in the future* 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved are consistent with approval of the application, 
and provide some weight in support thereof. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record; and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 

1025 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
Item No. 5 
3/24/69 
The Board has today approved two applications by Denver 
U. S. Bancorporation pursuant to which Bancorporation will acquire 
the Arkansas Valley Bank. Pueblo, and the Poudre Valley National Bank 
of Fort Collins. I joined in the Board's approval of the Arkansas 
Valley Bank; however, I would deny Applicant's proposal to acquire 
the Poudre Valley Bank. 
The Arkansas Valley Bank, the fourth largest of seven banks 
in Pueblo, holds 11 per cent of that city's total bank deposits. The 
three banks larger than it hold 41, 23, and 16 per cent, respectively, 
of such deposits. The Arkansas Valley Bank will be the only bank 
holding company subsidiary in the Pueblo area and will be located 
over 100 miles from the nearest of Applicant's present subsidiary 
banks. The record satisfactorily establishes that there is no present 
competition between the proposed subsidiary and any of Applicant's 
Present banks, nor is it reasonably assumed that such competition will 
develop. Lending some support to approval of the application is the 
likelihood that Applicant's ownership of the Arkansas Valley Bank will 
Provide that bank with required experienced management personnel. The 
absence of adverse competitive considerations, and the likelihood of 
some benefit to the bank, justify approval of this application. 
The facts presented with respect to Applicant's proposed 
acquisition of the Poudre Valley Bank in Fort Collins offer no such 

justification for approval, but rather, in ray judgment, require 
denial. Poudre Valley Bank controls 35 per cent of the total deposits 
held by the four banks in Fort Collins, and is second in size to a 
bank holding company subsidiary which alone controls 57 per cent of 
such deposits. Following Applicant's acquisition of the Poudre Valley 
Bank, two holding company banks will control 92 per cent of the total 
bank deposits in that area. The two remaining banks in Fort Collins, 
considerably smaller than either of their two larger competitors, hold, 
respectively, but 3 and 5 per cent of such deposits. Applicant's 
• r" ".i-r , ' • " k ^ . * I (/ t J' . 'X' ' 
•« ' 
-* 
nearest existing subsidiary to Fort Collins is in Greeley, 30 miles 
• 
)>J- V- " 
' * "'It.,, F< 
t:.i • •-
•I-Y J'.,; 
distant. Although little competition presently exists between the 
Greeley and Fort Collins banks, the relative proximity of their lo-
cations and the continued development of the areas between them sug-
Bests, in my judgment,, a very real potential for competition between 
Applicant's Greeley subsidiary and the Poudre Valley Bank that will 
be precluded by this proposal. There is nothing in the record before 
the Board that offsets the anticompetitive considerations above men-
tioned so as to justify approval of the application. There is no 
indication of an existing deficiency in the banking services pro-
vided by the Fort Collins' banks, either directly or in participation 
with their correspondent banks. Accordingly, on the basis of the 
facts presented, and summarized above, I would deny Applicant's pro-
posal with respect to the Poudre Valley Bank. 

29 
-15-
Regarding both applications discussed, I am constrained to 
voice again my concern as to the very real threat to the State's 
banking structure by the continued expansion of Applicant's system 
and of the other three large Colorado-based holding companies. In 
slightly over five years the. portion of deposits of all banks in the 
State controlled by bank holding companies has escalated from 7 per 
cent to approximately 46 per cent if the acquisitions today approved 
by the Board are included. The recent pattern of bank acquisitions 
in Colorado reflects expansions of holding company systems beyond 
the Denver Metropolitan Area into lesser-sized, but nonetheless 
vital, communities where the measure of adverse competitive impact is 
less apparent. There is no question in my mind that each approval of 
an acquisition will trigger similar proposals by competing bank holding 
companies. This trend, if not curbed, offers no reasonable alternative 
to smaller independent banks within the State to the acceptance of 
take-over offers by the large Denver-based bank holding companies 
or by holding companies now in process of formation. 
March 24, 1969. 

102S 
Item No. 6 
3/24/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
the b.n.y, company, inc., 
1 
New York, New York, 
1 
i 
for approval of action to become a 
bank holding company through the 
acquisition of all of the outstanding ' 
voting shares of seven banks in the 
State of New York. 
1 
t 
S 
- - - - - - i - - - - - - - - - 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
• 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The B.N.Y. 
Company, Inc., New York, New York, for the Board's prior approval 
°f action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of all of the outstanding voting shares 
of the following seven banks located In the State of New York:, 
The Bank of New York, New York City; The County Trust Company, 
Uhite Plains; Mechanics and Farmers Bank of Albany, Albany.; 
?ndicott Bank of New York, Endicott, the successor, by. conversion 

to State charter* of The Endicott National Bank, EndiCotfe* T^e 
Exchange Bank of Olefan, the successor, by conversion to State cHdrter, 
of The Exchange National Bank of Olean, Olean; Metropolitan I?anfc of 
Syracuse, the successor, by conversion to State charter, of Metropolitan 
National Bank of Syracuse, Syracuse; and Niagara Frontier Bank of New 
York, Buffalo, a proposed new bank. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the New York Super-
intendent of Banks, and requested his views and recommendation thereon. 
The New York State Banking Board advised the Board of its action, 
consistent with a recommendation made to it by the Superintendent, 
aPproving an application, filed pursuant to the Nex? York Banking Law 
with respect to the same transaction. 
Since three of the banks whose voting shares would be acquired 
by 
Applicant are presently national banks, the Board also invited an 
expression of views by the Comptroller of the-Currency. The Comptroller's 
°£fice responded that it had no comment to offer with respect to the 
Proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
pederal Register on September 6, 1968 (33 Federal Register 12697), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application x/as 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 

1030 
-15-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time shall 
be extended by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 24th day of March, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
h 
: •- . « • 
' 
i fe " 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

103 
Item No. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
3/24/69 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE B.N.Y. COMPANY, INC., NEW YORK, NEW YORK, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
The B.N.Y. Company, Inc., New York, New York ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all of 
the outstanding voting shares of the following seven banks, all 
located in the State of New York: The Bank of New York, New York 
City ("Bank of New York"); The County Trust Company, White Plains 
("County Trust"); Mechanics and Farmers Bank of Albany, Albany 
("Mechanics and Farmers Bank"); Endicott Bank of New York, Endicott 
("Endicott Bank"), the successor, by conversion to State charter, 
The Endicott National Bank, Endicott; The Exchange Bank of Olean, 
Olean ("Exchange Bank"), the successor, by conversion to State 
charter, of The Exchange National Bank of Olean, Olean; Metropolitan 
Bank of Syracuse, Syracuse ("Metropolitan Bank"), the successor, by 
conversion to State charter, of Metropolitan National Bank of Syracuse 
Syracuse; and Niagara Frontier Bank of New York, Buffalo ("Niagara 
Bank"), a proposed new bank. 

103 
- 2 -
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority, - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the 
New York State Superintendent of Banks. In view of his coordinate 
responsibilities under New York lav;, the Superintendent did not com-
ment directly to the Board. The New York State Banking Board, however, 
advised the Board of its action, consistent with a recommendation of 
the Superintendent (a copy of which was also provided to the Board), 
approving an application with respect to the same transaction pur-
suant to Article III-A of the New York Banking Law. 
Although not required by the Act to request the views and 
recommendation of the Comptroller of the Currency (since none of the 
banks whose voting shares would be acquired by Applicant would be 
national banks), the Board invited an expression of views by the 
Comptroller, inasmuch as three of the banks involved in the proposal 
are presently national banks. The Comptroller's office responded that 
it had no comment to offer on the proposal. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 

1033 
-15-
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served. In each case the Board is re-
quired to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Consummation 
of the present proposal would result in Applicant's becoming the ninth 
largest banking organization in the State of New York. Applicant's 
1/ 
subsidiary banks would operate a total of 7G banking offices 
located 
in six of the State's nine Banking Districts, and hold total deposits 
2/ 
of $2.2 billion," an amount equal to 2.9 per cent of the total deposits 
held by all banks in the State. All but $107 million in deposits and 
11 offices represent operations of Bank of Hew York and County Trust. 
Bank of lieu York ($1.3 billion deposits) is the ninth largest 
hank in New York City and the tenth largest banking organization in the 
State, accounting for 1.7 per cent of the deposits held by all banks in 
the State. It conducts a business which is primarily, although not 
exclusively, wholesale in nature, through eight banking offices located 
y 
Includes the proposed office of Niagara Bank. 
y 
All banking data are as of June 29, I960, unless otherwise noted. 

1034 
-15-
in the Wall Street and raid-town business districts of Manhattan. A 
substantial portion of its gross operating income derives from its 
trust activities. The bulk of its loan portfolio (85 per cent) is 
represented by commercial and industrial loans, loans to financial 
institutions, loans to brokers and other securities loans, with less 
than 3 per cent of its portfolio represented by real estate loans 
and consumer instalment loans. Of its total deposits, about 40 per 
cent represent large demand deposit accounts (in excess of $100,000) 
of individuals, partnerships, and corporations, and nearly 20 per 
cent are deposits of banks, resulting from its widespread domestic 
and foreign correspondent activities. 
County Trust ($781 million deposits) is the largest of seven 
banks headquartered in Westchester County, and the fifth largest of 
12 banks with offices located therein. It has 50 offices located 
throughout that county, and a total of nine offices in Rockland, Putnam, 
Sullivan, and Orange Counties. Although considered a full-service 
bank, its primary emphasis is on providing retail services to its 
suburban customers. Over half of County Trust's deposits represent 
savings accounts and relatively small (under $10,000) demand accounts. 
Real estate loans and consumer instalment loans constitute about three-
fourths of its loan portfolio, with only 11 per cent of its portfolio 
Represented by commercial and industrial loans. Its trust department 
accounts for less than one per cent of its gross operating income. 

10? 
-5-
Mechanics and Farmers Bank ($25 million deposits) operates a 
main office and one branch in Albany, and one branch in each of the 
suburban townships of Guilderland and Colonie. It-is the smallest of 
five banks in the City of Albany, the seventh largest of ten banks 
located in the area it serves (consisting of the City of Albany and 
its principal suburbs in Albany County, and the western portion of 
Rensselaer County), and the sixteenth largest of 36 banks in the Fourth 
Banking District of New York. The three largest banks in Albany range 
^ deposit size from $170 million to $862 million, while the fourth 
largest, a subsidiary of Empire Shares Corporation, a registered bank 
holding company, has deposits of $26 million. 
Metropolitan Bank ($21 million deposits), which was established 
n 1964, is the smallest of five banks in the City of Syracuse, where 
lt operates its only office. It is the eleventh largest of 25 banks 
l n t h e sixth Banking District. The four larger banks in Syracuse range 
i n deposit size from $166 million to $253 million. 
Endicott Bank ($34 million deposits) is the smallest of three 
banks with offices in Endicott, the smallest of four banks with offices 
itl t h e "triple cities" area of Binghamton, Endicott, and Johnson City, 
n d the only bank in its area not presently affiliated with a bank 
h°lding company, it is the eighth largest of 33 banks in New York's 
eventh Banking District. In addition to its main office in Endicott, 
°Perates three branches, located in the suburban towns of Endwell, 
Vesta a H a 
» anci Apalachin. The three larger competitors of Endicott Bank 
range in A posit size from $54 million to $215 million. 

1036 
-15-
The only office of Exchange Bank ($27 million deposits) is 
located in Olean, in New York's Ninth Banking District, Exchange 
Bank is the second largest of three banks in Olean, and would be the 
only one of the three Olean banks to be affiliated with a bank holding 
company. 
Niagara Bank, organization of which was recently approved 
by the New York State Banking Board, would commence business with 
capital of $4 million and a single office, located in downtown Buffalo 
in the Ninth Banking District of New York. The establishment of Niagara 
Bank is contingent upon approval of the present application. Commercial 
hanking in Buffalo and in the Ninth Banking District is highly concentrated, 
with the three largest banks in Buffalo holding about CO per cent of the 
total deposits in the entire district. 
Considering first the effect of Applicant's proposal on compe-
tition in the upstate areas involved, it does not appear that competition 
Would be adversely affected in any of such areas. Distances separating 
the four existing upstate banks range from 03 to 165 miles, and no sig-
ni£icant competition appears to exist between any two of them, or between 
a n y o f them and either Bank of New York or County Trust. Exchange Bank 
a n d the proposed Niagara Bank are the only upstate subsidiaries located 
the same Banking District, and potential competition between those 
bank8 is limite(i by the "home office protection" feature of New York 
br 
anching law and by the 70 mile distance between the only office of 
^change Bank and the proposed office of Niagara Bank. With respect to 
Albany, Syracuse, Endicott, and Buffalo markets, Applicant's proposal 

1037 
-15-
could have significant procompetitive effects by providing customers 
in those areas with a full service alternative to banks which presently 
dominate those markets, without appreciably increasing barriers to the 
entry of other potential competitors. The presently high level of con-
centration in each of those areas may thus eventually be meaningfully 
reduced through the increased ability of the proposed subsidiary banks 
to compete effectively for business originating in those areas. The 
Proposed acquisition of Exchange Bank, which is a viable and effective 
competitor within its market, would not have procompetitive effects of 
cne same magnitude as those foreseen in the case of the other four upstate 
hanks; however, Exchange Bank is by no means a dominant institution in 
its area, and its acquisition by Applicant appears consistent with the 
Preservation of competition in the Olean area. 
The proposed affiliation of Bank of New York and County Trust 
under Applicant's control raises competitive issues which require some-
what closer analysis. Bank of New York is the tenth largest and County 
Trust the twelfth largest bank within the area encompassed by New York 
City> Westchester County, and Nassau County. Although neither bank has 
°^fices within the immediate area served by the other, County Trust 
d° 0 s compete with New York City banks for the business of individuals 
^ 0 reside in its service area and commute to employment in the City, 
nc* New York City banks must also be regarded as reasonably convenient 
anking alternatives for corporations located in Westchester County, 
addition, Bank of New York and County Trust could legally branch 
t o each other's immediate service areas and both have the financial 

-8-
10 
ability to do so. These circumstances, however, are in large part 
offset by the earlier-discussed specialization of the two banks in 
different areas of banking service. Despite the general competitive 
ability of each of the banks, and despite the fact that, based on 
geographical considerations, they would appear to be at least potential 
competitors, appraisal of the principal service offerings of Bank of 
New York and County Trust clearly indicates that their affiliation 
Would not eliminate significant competition between than. Even in the 
unlikely event that either or both of the banks were to change their 
traditional patterns of service, the impact of such a change on the 
overall level of competition would be relatively negligible. Bank of 
New York and County Trust both face significant competition from 
several substantially larger banking organizations, and it does not 
aPPear that the additional competition which either could provide to 
the other would result in significantly improved customer alternatives, 
therefore, although the elimination of such competition as presently 
exists between Bank of New York and County Trust, or as could arise 
in the future, is an adverse consideration with respect to Applicant's 
Proposal, the significance of that consideration does not appear such 
a s to warrant the conclusion that competition in the area served by 
Bank of New York and County Trust may be substantially lessened, Or 
that any tendency toward monopoly would result. 
Two other competitive considerations relating to the proposed 
^filiation of Bank of New York and County Trust warrant mention, 
^irst, the judgment that there is no reasonable probability that Bank 

-5-
of New York would compete significantly with County Trust in the future 
is not as readily applicable to a holding company system having Bank of 
.New York as its lead bank. Significant competition by such a holding 
company in the Westchester County market would not appear to require 
acquisition of the dominant bank in that county, and entry through 
alternative means could serve to inject new and significant competition 
iato that area. In addition, if County Trust were not a member of 
Applicant!s system, the possibility would exist that, at some future 
date, it might itself take the lead in the formation of a separate 
holding company which could be competitive with Applicant and other 
large organizations in other sections of the State. 
A judgment as to the relative significance of those competitive 
considerations which are adverse to Applicants proposal and those which 
are favorable thereto requires an appreciation of the differences be-
tween the structure of the upstate markets in New York and that of the 
^ew York City area. As is indicated by the earlier discussion of the 
ftructures of the Albany, Syracuse, and Buffalo areas, it is typical 
of the upstate areas that a very limited number of banks exercise a 
dominant influence over banking in each area and control a preponderance 
the deposits originating therein. The largest banks in the State 
are» of course, concentrated in the New York City area, but, because 
state law limits branching by such banks to New York City, Westchester, 
and Nassau Counties, the extent to w.hicb competition by such banks can 
°ffset existing concentration in the upstate areas is limited by geograph-
ical considerations which make them inconvenient alternatives for any 

1 M 0 
-10-
but the largest customers upstate. Bank holding companies, which are 
not limited by branching restrictions, can, by making available to 
small upstate subsidiaries the assistance of a viable affiliate, serve 
to offset to a considerable extent the disadvantages to which the up-
state subsidiaries are subject in competing with the dominant banks 
in their areas and, in so doing, can increase banking competition and 
decrease concentration within such areas. Applicant has consciously 
undertaken to structure its system in a manner which would maximize 
the potential benefits to competition in the upstate markets. Except 
for Exchange Bank, each of the existing proposed upstate subsidiaries 
the smallest independent bank in a significant market dominated by 
9 few large banking organizations. In the Buffalo area, the most 
heavily concentrated major banking market in the State, Applicant's 
entry would be effected through acquisition of a newly chartered bank, 
! t is Applicant's contention that, with the support of Bank of New York 
County Trust, these banks can be developed into significant compet-
itors in their areas. To successfully do so, however, will require 
c°nsiderable management resources and varied banking capabilities and 
xPerience, as well as substantial financial resources. Applicant 
Iprceibly asserts that neither Bank of New York nor County Trust alone 
a s the range of capabilities or the resources needed for the successful 
accomplishment of this undertaking while at the same time meeting the 
needs of its own customers, but that their complementary strengths will 
.nable them, through the proposed holding company, to provide the leader-
®Wp necessary for its success. 

1041 
-15-
Th e principal issue is whether the anticompetitive effects 
the proposed affiliation of Bank of New York and County Trust are 
sufficiently serious as to condemn the entire proposal. The Board con-
cludes that they are not. The combined deposits of Bank of New York 
and County Trust are substantially lower than those held by seven 
banks located in New York City. Applicant would control only about 
3 Per cent of the total deposits held by banks in the New York City -
Westchester - Nassau County market and, as earlier noted, little 
existing competition would be eliminated by the proposed affiliation, 
^he possibility of significant future competition between Bank of 
Net,; York and County Trust also seems remote, except in the event that 
either or both were to form holding companies not including the other 
a s a subsidiary. The significance of the elimination of such potential 
competition, insofar as the New York City area is concerned,.is 
minimized by the large number of strong competitors in that market. 
With respect to the loss of potential competition which could arise 
i n the upstate markets if Bank of New York and County Trust were both 
to form separate holding companies with upstate affiliates, it would 
aPpear that the structure of such companies would likely be different 
from that of Applicant with respect to the size of the upstate banks 
which would be included; it is by no means clear that the effects in 
fche upstate markets from such formations would be more competitively 
desirable than those which would result from Applicant's proposal. On 
balance, the Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
w°uld have competitive effects in the State of New York and in the 

1042 
-15-
upstate markets involved which would promote the public interest, and 
that these considerations more than offset the adverse implications 
of the affiliation of Bank of New York and County Trust. 
This, it should be clear, is not to suggest that a proposal 
which may substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly 
in one area is saved because, in some other area, the competitive 
effect would be favorable. The Act does not permit a balancing of a 
substantial loss of competition in one area against a significant in-
crease in competition in another; on the contrary, it requires that 
an application be denied if its effect may be substantially to lessen 
competition or to tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country, 
unless the benefits to the community convenience and needs clearly out-
weigh such anticompetitive effects. But when, as here, the anticompeti-
tive effects of a proposal are not so substantial in any area as to 
violate the antitrust standard of the Act, it is clearly appropriate, 
in determining whether the public interest would be served by consum-
mation of the transaction, to view the competitive considerations as 
insistent with that interest based on the overall effect of the 
Proposal, rather than to condemn the entire proposal because of limited 
anticompetitive effects in a given area. 
For the foregoing reasons, competitive considerations are 
regarded as consistent with approval of the subject application. Con-
summation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be 

1043 
-15-
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not substantially lessen 
competition or tend to create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The projected financial condition of Applicant, a new corporation, is 
regarded as satisfactory. Its management, which will be drawn princi-
pally from Bank of New York and County Trust, is also regarded as 
satisfactory, and its prospects, based upon those of the subsidiary 
banks, appear favorable. 
Both Bank of New York and County Trust are in excellent 
financial condition with competent management, and the prospects of both 
are regarded as favorable regardless of whether the present application 
is approved. 
The financial condition and management of the existing upstate 
banks are reasonably satisfactory. However, they would likely be bene-
fitted by the greater facility for raising capital and from the additional 
management depth which Applicant^ proposal would provide, and their 
Prospects would be considerably improved as a result of the greater 
breadth of services which they would be able to offer their customers. 
Niagara Bank's proposed capital of $4 million appears adequate, its 
management, which will be drawn from Bank of New York and County Trust, 
aPpears competent, and its prospects, as reflected by Applicant's pro-
action that the bank will have about $16 million in deposits after three 
^ars of operation, are favorable. 

1044 
-15-
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with 
approval of the application as they relate to Applicant, Bank of New 
York, and County Trust, and weigh in favor of approval as they relate 
to the proposed upstate subsidiary banks. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Applicant's 
Proposal would have no significant effect on the convenience and needs of 
residents or businesses in New York City or Westchester County. Residents 
°f those areas presently have available a complete range of banking ser-
vices from several sources; customers of County Trust, however, would 
be able to obtain, through that bank, somewhat more convenient access 
to the wholesale type services offered by Bank of New York. 
It does not appear that there are any major banking needs in 
the upstate areas which are not being met by the larger banks located 
there. However, none of the proposed subsidiary banks presently serves 
a H segments of the banking public, because of limited resources and 
lack of specialized knowledge. The principal contribution of Appli-
cant's proposal to the convenience and needs of the public would be 
to make it possible for these banks to offer a much broader range of 
banking services than they have offered or can offer as independent 
banks, and to make available to the Buffalo area a new alternative 
source of banking services. 
Considerations under this factor weigh in favor of approval 
o f the application. 
/ 

1045 
-15-
Summarv and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
March 24, 1969. 

48 
Item No. 8 
3/24/69 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
My dissent from the Board's approval of B.N.Y. Company's 
formation as a bank holding company relates to my appraisal of the 
likely adverse impact of the proposal in the New York City Metro-
politan area, and takes into consideration the probable, but limited, 
benefits to the relevant upstate bank markets. 
Consummation of Applicant's proposal is not likely to have 
any significant anticompetitive consequences in the Endicott, Olean, 
Albany, Syracuse, or Buffalo areas; particularly in the Buffalo area 
where Applicant will establish a new bank. In one or more of these 
afeas some benefits in the nature of new, improved, or more convenient 
banking services will undoubtedly result. Thus, were only the upstate 
communities involved, I could join in the Board's approval action for 
the reason that, anticompetitive consequences absent, and the likeli-
hood of some benefit to the communities being evidenced, approval 
Would be indicated. However, viewing the application in its entirety 
in the light of the applicable statutory standards, I am unable to 
find a resulting beneficial consequence that would warrant approval. 
In my judgment, the anticompetitive effects reasonably 
associated with the proposed affiliation of County Trust Company and 
the Bank of New York are substantial, and are in no measure outweighed 
ky compensating benefits to their ccmmon trade market - New York City, 
Wcstchester County, and Nassau County. Both County Trust Company and 

-2-
1047 
Bank of New York have given reasons why each would not consider 
de novo entry into the head office area of the other. I am unwilling 
to apply these reasons in support of approval action on this applica-
tion, Rather than approve this proposal, with the resulting elimina-
tion of competition between Bank of New York and County Trust, and 
preclusion of potential competition between them, I would deny the 
application in order to require each to use its sizable position 
(Bank of New York - $1,3 billion of deposits; County Trust Company -
$781 million of deposits) either to enter de novo the areas princi-
pally served by the other, or to seek alternative affiliations of a 
size and in such locale as likely to produce considerably less 
anticompetitive impact than is to be anticipated from this proposal, 
Under New York State lav/, each can merge into and establish de novo 
branches in the head office county of the other. Considering the 
size of the two banks and their highly qualified and experienced 
management, either could structure an affiliation that would offer 
a Potential for obtaining the geographic and product market result 
that each seeks, without the anticompetitive consequence inherent 
the subject proposal. Control, as proposed, of the largest bank 
headquartered in Westchester County and of a $1.3 billion New York 
Glty bank should be permitted only upon a clear showing that such 
affiliation is required in the public interest - that is, that major 
banking needs within the communities involved-are unserved and will 

remain substantially unserved absent consummation of the proposed 
affiliation. No evidence was adduced with respect to such unserved 
need in the New York City area. 
In sum, the benefits to the upstate communities that may 
result from Applicant's formation have no relevant overweighing 
effect on the significantly adverse competitive consequences I 
foresee in the New York City - Westchester County area. In this 
circumstance, the application should be denied. 
March 24, 1969. 
• 
^ - i V ii 
• ' : 
V ,> 

1049 
^LRES^r 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/24/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
r f y ' , ' 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
The Endicott National Bank, 
Endicott, New York. 
13760 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Endicott Bank of New York, Endicott, 
New York, made on its behalf by The Endicott National Bank, 
Endicott, New York, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the per-
mission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors also approves the establishment 
and operation by the resulting bank of three branches now operated 
by the Endicott National Bank. 

1050 
The Endicott National Bank 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
°f Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the 
deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied 
with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a 
formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^closure. 

1051 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
3/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
The Exchange National Bank 
of Olean, 
Olean, New York. 14760 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of The Exchange Bank of Olean, Olean, 
New York, made on its behalf by The Exchange National Bank of Olean, 
Olean, New York, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
°f the Federal Reserve System. 

1052 
The Exchange National Bank 
of Olean 
-2-
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
Board of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified 
copy of such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve 
Bank. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for 
an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the 
deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank 
applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the 
Board is advised that all of the requirements have been complied with 
and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has 
been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal 
certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures. 

BCDARD O F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 11 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/24/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969 
Board of Directors, 
Metropolitan National Bank 
of Syracuse, 
Syracuse, New York. 13202 
Gentlemen: 
'^••l ' v fc L L ! <; ( ;•>. 
.' ; • 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Metropolitan Bank of Syracuse, Syracuse, 
New York, made on its behalf by Metropolitan National Bank of 
Syracuse, Syracuse, New York, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set 
forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and, except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the sccpe of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be 
determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's status 
a s a member of the Federal Reserve System. 

1(154 
Metropolitan National Bank 
of Syracuse 
-2-
MiA"- 
.:•. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the 
required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

1055 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
OF THE 
item No. 12 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/24/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 3, 1969 
Organization Committee, 
Niagara Frontier Bank of New York, 
Buffalo, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of Niagara Frontier Bank 
of New York, Buffalo, New York, for stock in the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope 
of the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $2 million, and other capital funds of not less 
than $2 million. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

1056 
Niagara Frontier Bank 
of New York 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it 
may be determined whether such change affects in any way the 
bank's status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to 
Commence Business has been issued. The board of directors should 
also adopt, at the same time, a resolution ratifying all action 
which has been taken in the bank's behalf in making application 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. A certified copy 
°f each resolution, together with advice of compliance with the 
Provisions of condition numbered 3, should be transmitted to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Arrangements will thereupon be 
made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the 
Federal Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished 
is limited to six months from the date of this letter, unless the 
bank applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When 
the Board is advised that all of the requirements have been com-
plied with and that the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the Board will forward to 
the bank a formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the 
Reserve Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank 
will be glad to assist you in establishing your relationships with 
the Federal Reserve System and at any time to discuss with 
representatives of your bank means for making the services of the 
System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^closure. 

10 J 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 13 
3/24/69 
In the Matter of the Applications, 
Pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
fiank Holding Company Act of 1956, by 
°TTO BREMER COMPANY, and 
OTTO BREMER FOUNDATION, both of 
st. Paul, Minnesota, 
for determinations re the proposed nonbank 
subsidiaries, State Agency of Redwood Falls, 
nc«, American State Agency of Watertown, 
Elk*' C a s s a b a n k a Insurance Agency, Inc., 
Ik Valley Agency, Inc., and Citizens 
insurance Agency, Inc. 
DOCKET NOS. 
BHC - 83 
BHC - 84 
BHC - 85 
BHC - 86 
BHC - 87 
ORDER GRANTING DETERMINATIONS 
UNDER BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
Otto Bremer Company and Otto Bremer Foundation, both of 
St • Paul, Minnesota, both of which are bank holding companies within 
th 
e meaning of section 2(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U'S«C. 51841(a)), have filed requests for determinations by the 
fin 
a r d of Governors of the Federal Reserve System that the activities 
Planned to be undertaken by five proposed nonbank subsidiaries (State 
n c y o f Redwood Falls, Inc., American State Agency of Watertown, Inc., 
ssabanka Insurance Agency, Inc., Elk Valley Agency, Inc., and 
itl2ens Insurance Agency, Inc.) are of the kind described in 
SQP F. I 
l 0 n 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 51843(c)(8)) and section 222.4(a) 

1058 
-2-
of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 5222.4(a)) so as to make it 
unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the Act, 
respecting ownership of shares in nonbanking companies, to apply in 
order to carry out the purposes of the Act. 
Pursuant to the requirements of section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act, and in accordance with the provisions of sections 222.4(a) and 
222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 55222.4(a) and 222.5(a)), 
a hearing was held on these matters on August 28, 1968. The hearing 
examiner filed his report and recommended decision wherein he 
recommended that the Board decline to make the requested determinations; 
Applicants filed exceptions and a brief in support thereof. 
For the 
Masons set forth in a Statement of this date, and on the basis of 
fche entire record, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the activities planned to be 
undertaken by each of the proposed subsidiaries named hereinabove are 
determined to be so closely related to the business of banking or of 
Paging or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto and 
a s to m ak e it unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) of the 
Holding Company Act of 1956 to apply in order to carry out the 
?urposes of that Act; provided, however, that the determination with 

1059 
-15-
respect to each such subsidiary is subject to revocation if the facts 
upon which it is based change in any material respect. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 25th day of March, 1969, 
By order of the General Counsel of the Board of Governors, 
acting on behalf of the Board pursuant to delegated authority 
(12 CFR 5265.2(b) (2)). 
(Signed) Robert Po Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

lOtiO 
Item No. 14 
3/24/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY OTTO BREMER COMPANY AND 
OTTO BREMER FOUNDATION FOR DETERMINATIONS 
RE FIVE PROPOSED NONBANKING SUBSIDIARIES 
STATEMENT 
Otto Bremer Foundation and Otto Bremer Company, both of 
St« Paul, Minnesota (sometimes hereinafter referred to as "Applicants"), 
are bank holding companies within the meaning of section 2(a) of the 
fionk Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 5 1841(a)) (the "Act"). 
They have requested the Board to determine that the activities planned 
t o be undertaken by five proposed subsidiaries (State Agency of 
Redwood Falls, Inc., American State Agency of Watertown, Inc., 
Cassabanka Insurance Agency, Inc., Elk Valley Agency, Inc., and 
citiZens i n s u r a n c e Agency, Inc.) are of the kind described in 
Action 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. § 1843(c)(8)) and section 222.4(a) 
of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR § 222.4(a)), so as to make it 
unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a)(1) of the Act to 
apply in order to carry out the purposes of the Act. On July 25, 
the Board ordered that a hearing be held on these requests, 
PUrsuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Act and sections 222.4(a) and 
225 
**5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR §5 222.4(a) and 

1061 
- 2 -
222.5(a)), notice of which was published in the Federal Register on 
August 2, 1968 (33 F.R. 11038). 
The hearing was held in Minneapolis, Minnesota, on August 28, 
1568, before a duly selected and designated hearing examiner. Appli-
cants and the Board, the latter appearing in a nonadversary capacity, 
were represented at the hearing by counsel and were afforded the 
cpportunity to be heard, to examine and cross-examine witnesses, and 
t o file briefs and proposed findings of fact and conclusions of law. 
The examiner's report and recommended decision, a copy of 
which is attached, was filed with the Board on December 31, 1968. 
examiner recommended that all five requests be denied. Applicants 
filed exceptions, together with a supporting brief, to the examiner's 
report and recommended decision. 
Facts. The purpose of each of the five proposed subsidiaries 
to place in a separate corporation the general insurance agency busi-
n e s s 
conducted by each of five of Applicants' subsidiary banks on 
i t s respective premises, through its officers or employees acting as 
a5entsp and thus to protect the five banks from liabilities arising 
° u t of their insurance operations. It is planned that the stock of 
ttle proposed insurance subsidiaries will be offered for sale to the 
espective stockholders of the related banks in the same proportion 
they hold stock in the banksl^, and that the officers and directors 
as 
r; applicants would own a majority of the stock of each of the 
FC°Posed subsidiaries. 

lot;'* 
FT* 
-3-
o f e a c h subsidiary will also be officers and director of the related 
bank. The insurance now offered by the banks (with minor variations 
from bank to bank) include some or all of the following types: credit 
!ife, health and accident, fire, hail and windstorm, marine, automobile, 
fidelity, and workmens1 compensation. Each of the banks has maintained 
a general insurance agency operation for at least 30 years. 
State Agency of Redwood Falls, Inc. (a Minnesota corporation) 
W o u l d engage exclusively in the business of a general insurance agency 
° n t h e premises of State Bank of Redwood Falls, Minnesota ("Redwood Bank") 
TVi 
e extent to which the insurance agency business of Redwood Bank is 
related to its lending activities, or is otherwise derived from 
Customers of banking services, is reflected in the following table 
W l th respect to operations in 1967: 
Percentage of 
Classification 
%ross premiums 
Insurance on loan collateral 
44 
Other insurance for customers 
36 
Insurance for others 
20 
American State Agency of Watertown, Inc. (a Minnesota 
c°rporation) would engage exclusively in the business of a general 
insurance agency on the premises of American State Bank of Watertown, 
nesota ('Watertown Bank"). Ihe extent to which the insurance agency 
bug 
nGss of Watertown Bank is related to its lending activities, and 
otherwise derived from customers of banking services, is reflected 
the following table with respect to operations in 1967: 

10U3 
-4-
Classification 
Insurance on loan collateral 
Other insurance for customers 
Insurance for others 
Percentage of 
gross premiums 
10 
70 
20 
Cassabanka Insurance Agency, Inc« (a North Dakota 
corporation) would engage exclusively in the business of a general 
insurance agency on the premises of Casselton State Bank, Casselton, 
North Dakota ("Casselton Bank"), Ihe extent to which the insurance 
agency business of Casselton Bank is related to its lending activities, 
and is otherwise derived from customers of banking services, is re-
k • ^ „ 
flected in the following table with respect to operations from 
y - 
, : . 
•/. 
v. 
• J- • • 
January 1 through July 16, 1968: 
Percentage of 
Clnssification 
gross premiums 
Insurance on loan collateral 
Other insurance for customers 
Insurance for others 
63 
32 
5 
Elk Valley Agency, Inc0 (a North Dakota corporation) would 
etl8age exclusively in the business of a general insurance agency on 
t h e premises of Elk Valley State Bank, Larimore, North Dakota ("Elk 
Galley Bank"), The extent to which the insurance agency business of 
£lk Valley Bank is related to its lending activities, and is otherwise 

5 
1064 
derived from customers of banking services, is reflected in the 
following table with respect to operations in 1967: 
Percentage of 
Classification 
gross premiums 
Insurance on loan collateral 
19 
Other insurance for customers 
81 
Insurance for others 
0 
Citizens Insurance Agency, Inc. (a North Dakota corporation) 
ttould engage exclusively in the business of a general insurance agency 
°n the premises of Citizens State Bank, Rugby, North Dakota ("Citizens 
Bank"). The extent to which the insurance agency business of Citizens 
Bank is related to Its lending activities, and is otherwise derived from 
customers of banking services, is reflected in the following table with 
Aspect to operations for the twelve month-period ending July 31, 1968: 
Percentage of 
Classification 
gross premiums 
Insurance on loan collateral 
14 
Other Insurance for customers 
82 
Insurance for others 
4 
The record shows that it is common practice for State banks 
4 
l n Minnesota and North Dakota to conduct general insurance agency opera-
tions. The law in these States prohibits lenders from requiring that 
^surance be procured from a particular source. Each of Applicants' 
deposed subsidiaries would carry on a general insurance agency business 

10G5 
-6-
in all substantial respects as is now conducted by the bank with which 
the subsidiary would be associated. The subsidiaries would have no 
separate quarters or employees, but each would pay a fee for the use 
of space on bank premises and for the services of bank personnel. 
Discussion. - Section 4(a)(1) of the Act forbids a bank 
holding company to ". . . acquire direct or indirect ownership or 
control of any voting shares of any company which is not a bank. . . . " 
By virtue of section 4(c)(8) of the Act and of section 222.4(a) of the 
Board's Regulation Y, this prohibition does not apply to shares of any 
company whose activities, "all of which are or are to be of a financial, 
fiduciary, or insurance nature, are so closely related to the business 
banking or of managing or controlling banks (as conducted by such 
hank holding company or its banking subsidiaries) as to be a proper 
incident thereto and as to make it unnecessary for the prohibitions of 
Section 4 of the Act to apply in order to carry out the purposes of 
the Act". 
The hearing examiner, in recommending that the Board issue 
atl order declining to make the requested determinations, concluded that, 
^hile all of the activities of the proposed corporations would be of 
a n insurance nature, not all such activities would be so closely related 
t o the business of banking as to be a proper incident thereto within 
the meaning of section 4(c)(8). In the view of the hearing examiner, 
t° meet the "closely related" and "proper incident" requirements, all 
the insurance activities must be related to bank transactions. 

-7-
101 
The Board has heretofore held, however, that it is not 
necessary for these purposes that even a majority of an insurance agency 
company's activities be directly connected with bank transactions. 
See> 
Bank Shares Incorporated, 1959 Federal Reserve Bulletin 954, 
957. 
The Board heretofore has concluded that, to justify an 
exemption under section 4(c)(8), it is necessary that there be a direct 
and significant connection between the contemplated activities of an 
insurance agency company and the business of banking, or of managing 
and controlling banks, as conducted by the applicant holding company 
°r its banking subsidiaries. See, e.£., First Bank Stock Corporation, 
1959 Federal Reserve Bulletin 917, 930 (application re First Service 
Agencies, Inc.). The premiums derived from the insurance activities of 
Applicants' banks here involved that are directly related to loan 
transactions of the banks are not insignificant within the purview of 
Prior Board determinations. See, e.£., Otto Bremer Co., 1967 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 1555, 1557, Other factors regarded by the Board as 
pertinent in showing the requisite statutory relationship, no one of 
which is decisive, include: the fact of the organizational and 
Physical integration of the insurance agency and bank operations; the 
^act that a significant portion of the premiums not derived from bank-
elated transactions is nevertheless derived from insurance written for 
b*nk customers; and the fact that similar general insurance agencies 

1067 
-15-
are operated in conjunction with many banks in the relevant area. With 
respect to the latter, the Board has held that the existence of "ared 
practice" tends to negate the presence of "potential evils" that may arise 
from, or be accentuated by, the operation of bank holding companies, these 
being the dangers that the general prohibition of section 4(a) of the Act 
against the ownership of nonbank stock was designed to protect against. 
See, e.£., First Bank Stock Corporation, op. cit., supra, at 930-32. 
The first two considerations indicate that the insurance agency activi-
ties are an adjunct to bank operations and are not an end in themselves, 
S o that it is improbable that the insurance activities will ever be 
regarded as paramount by the holding company and its banks abused 
because of such activities. 
All of the relevant considerations with respect to Applicants' 
five proposed general insurance agency subsidiaries are consistent with 
aPproval. 
Conclusions. - It appears that the activities of Applicants' 
five proposed subsidiaries would be of an insurance nature and so 
closely related to the business of banking as conducted by Applicants' 
subsidiary banks as to be a proper incident thereto and as to make it 
Unnecessary for the prohibitions of section 4(a) to apply in order to 
Carry out the purposes of the Bank Holding Company Act. To the extent 
tbat they are consistent with this Statement, the Applicants' exceptions 
to 
the report and recommended decision of the hearing examiner are 
8ustained. 

J: 
;>'V; S; 
1068 
Accordingly, it i9 concluded that the applications should be 
approved. As indicated in the attached Order, if the facts upon which 
approval of any one of the applications is based should change in any 
material respect, such approval may be revoked, 
March 25, 1969. 

Item No. 15 
3/24/69 
For immediate release 
March 28, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued for comment a proposed rule designed to foster greater clarity 
in advertisements by member banks of the interest they pay on deposits. 
The proposal would amend Federal Reserve Regulation Q, "Payment of 
Interest on Deposits," and would implement the authority granted to 
the Board by Congress in the Act of September 21, 1968 (P.L. 90-505). 
A similar rule is being proposed by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and by the Federal Home Loan Bank Board with respect to 
institutions under their jurisdictions. 
The proposal would establish guidelines for banks in 
advertising percentage yields on deposits. Recent advertisements of 
a number of banks referred to the average annual percentage yield on 
a deposit If the customer leaves his funds with the bank for many 
years. The average percentage yield over a period of years is higher 
than the simple rate of interest because of compounding, and it 
becomes higher the longer the funds are left on deposit. 
Under the proposal, any State member or national bank that 
advertises the average annual percentage yield on deposits would be 
re<luired to include an equally prominent statement of the simple 
interest rate and the number of years required to achieve the yield, 
to8ether with a reference to the basis for compounding and an 
exPlanatory statement on average annual yield. It is believed that 
the proposal would minimize any confusion or misunderstanding that 
might result from advertising average annual percentage yield. 

• > 
1070 
- 2 -
A copy of the proposed amendments in the form submitted 
publication in the Federal Register is attached. Comments on the 
posal should be received by the Board by April 28, 1969. 
Attachment 
for 
pro-
- . Y.' • 
"V "' 
, 
-X 
