* « 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 25, 1970 

1 6 5 2 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 25, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
c u : 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
• i ? - 
. 
Finance 
/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Byrn, Miss Ormsby, and Mr. Morgan 
of the Office of the Secretary 
An economic review of the kind customarily given in pre-
paration for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
presented by the staff. Copies of the individual briefings have 
been placed ii\ the files of the Board. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, and there was a further general discussion of economic 
JV Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

5/25/70 
-2-
and financial developments and of the state of public psychology 
particularly in view of the recent decline in stock market prices. 
The element of uncertainty was stressed, with special reference to 
the consumer area. Mention was made of the situation confronting 
stock brokerage houses, and question was raised with respect to 
whether a basis existed for action on the part of the Federal 
Reserve as lender of last resort should conditions deteriorate 
further in the securities industry. This led to comments on weak 
spots in the business and financial community generally and to the 
possibility of failure on the part of firms whose failure would 
have consequences such as to endanger the economy. The staff was 
requested)to review the possibilities for Federal Reserve assistance 
under the third paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act 
and to report back to the Board. 
The Chairman also suggested that if any Board member had 
specific thoughts that he would like to have pursued, he advise 
Mr. Holland, who would have appropriate staff work undertaken and 
would keep him (the Chairman) informed. The Chairman also stressed 
the need to bear in mind that matters of this kind should be handled 
in strict confidence. 
There followed staff comments on materials that had been 
prepared for the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
tomorrow, including the alternative choices for a current economic 

hi - 6f)';-j 
4 6 2 9 
5/25/70 
-3-
policy directive. It was suggested that an additional alternative 
directive be drafted that would place more emphasis on money market 
conditions. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Governor Mitchell reported that he had discussed the matter 
of possible choices for the presidency of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago with Governor Maisel (who had not been present during the 
previous discussion of the subject) and with Vice Chairman Robertson. 
The suggestion was made and agreed upon that two additional 
names from the Chicago directors' list, those of John Balles and 
Thomas Storrs, should be added to the list of men who would be 
acceptable to the Board of Governors. Governor Mitchell was 
requested to convey that information to Chairman Higdon of the 
Chicago Reserve Bank. 
v 
/ • v " 
. ? t. • 
h .'. ' 
- ' 
r ' •f 
• 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
