PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
July 29, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1873 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 29, 1971. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 2/ 
Mr. Sherrill 3/ 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
. . Mr. Crews, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff attended 
portions of the meeting. 
1/ Joined meeting and withdrew at points indicated in minutes. 
2./ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
.3/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1874 
7/29/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to First Michigan Bank and Trust Company, Zeeland, Michigan, approving 
its application for permission to issue capital notes. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved unanimously an interpretation of Regu-
lation Z, Truth in Lending, relating to the effect of a change in 
the method of determining the balance on which finance charges are 
computed in connection with open end credit. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation, New York, New York, approving its appli-
cation for permission to purchase, directly or indirectly, shares of 
Allgemeine Deutsche Credit-Anstalt, Frankfurt/Main, Germany. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
At the suggestion of Governor Maisel, the Board deferred 
action on a proposed report to the Comptroller of the Currency 
regarding the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
of Citizens National Bank of Morris County, Succasunna, New Jersey, 
into The Warren County National Bank, Washington, New Jersey, in 
order that the staff might reexamine the recommended conclusion in 
light of the order and statement being issued in the matter of an 
application by Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey, referred 
to later in these minutes. 

1875 
7/29/71 
-3-
First Sebanco. After certain changes in the statement 
suggested by Governor Mitchell had been agreed upon, the Board 
authorized the issuance of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's action on July 1, 1971, denying the application of First 
Sebanco, Inc., Glendive, Montana, to become a bank holding company. 
Copies of the order and statement are attached under Item No. 4. 
Midlantic Banks. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting the Board's action on July 1, 1971, 
denying the application of Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Citizens National 
Bank, Englewood, New Jersey. Copies of the order and statement are 
attached under Item No. 5, along with the concurring statement by 
Governors Mitchell and Sherrill. 
H. Con. Res. 328. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to the Office of Management and Budget in response to a request for 
the Board's views with respect to a proposed letter from the Chairman 
of the Council of Economic Advisers to Chairman Patman of the House 
Banking and Currency Committee concerning House Concurrent Resolu-
tion 328, submitted by Congressman Reuss, which would express the 
sense of the Congress on steps proposed to strengthen the dollar. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Office of Management and Budget 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Membership application. The Board approved unanimously 
the application made on behalf of Platte Valley Bank, Brighton, 

187G 
7/29/71 
-4-
Colorado, a new bank in process of organization, for admission to 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent 
pursuant to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 7. 
Request for examination reports. The Board authorized the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco to make available to represen-
tatives of the Internal Revenue Service, subject to certain conditions, 
reports of examination of Valley Bank of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada, 
to which access had been requested. Copies of the letters sent to 
the Internal Revenue Service and to the San Francisco Reserve Bank 
pursuant to the Board's action are attached as Items 8 and 9. 
Delegation of authority. The Board approved unanimously an 
amendment to its Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority effecting 
delegation of authority to its General Counsel, or in his absence 
the Acting General Counsel, pursuant to which response could be made 
to requests for access to examination reports and related documents 
prepared by the Federal Reserve Banks and to subpoenas issued pursuant 
to lawful authority calling for production of Federal Reserve 
documents or for testimony by System personnel, with the under-
standing that action would be taken under such delegated authority 
only after consultation by the General Counsel with officials of 
the Board whose areas of responsibility were affected by a specific 
request or demand. A copy of the amendment effecting the delegation, 
as published in the Federal Register, is attached as Item No. 10. 

1877 
7/29/71 
-5-
Telegraphic transfers of funds. At the meeting on June 17, 
1971, action had been deferred, at the request of Governor Mitchell, 
on a proposed revision of instructions to the Federal Reserve Banks 
regarding telegraphic transfers of funds that would have had the 
effect of eliminating service charges on such transfers in amounts 
of $1,000 or over. Such action would have implemented the relevant 
section of the statement of policy on the payments mechanism that 
was adopted recently by the Board, but Governor Mitchell wished to 
discuss the matter further at a meeting of the System Steering 
Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism. 
The proposal was subsequently discussed and approved at a 
meeting of the Steering Committee in late June. The Steering 
Committee also proposed that the revised instructions effect the 
removal of all advice charges, and reference to such charges had 
been deleted from the proposed letter of instructions that was now 
before the Board. 
The revised instructions for telegraphic transfers of funds 
(uniform paragraphs to be included in the Reserve Bank operating 
circulars) were approved unanimously, effective August 12, 1971. 
Copies of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks and the 
enclosure thereto are attached under Item No. 11. 
Resource sharing of computer related services. In a 
memorandum of July 23, 1971, Governor Sherrill recommended approval 

1878 
7/29/71 
-6-
of a proposed study of resource sharing of computer related services 
in the System research environment, as discussed in an attached 
staff paper, that would be undertaken by the staff with existing 
resources during the remainder of 1971. 
Governor Sherrill's recommendation was approved unanimously. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
PHMFG Corporation. Counsel for PHMFG Corporation had 
requested that certain further technical modifications be made in the 
Board's order of April 2, 1971, as modified May 11, 1971, exempting 
from margin requirements bank credit to PHMFG Corporation for the 
purpose of providing capital to F. I. duPont, Glore Forgan & Co. 
The circumstances were discussed, and a favorable recommendation made, 
in a memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
July 28, 1971. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 
issuance of an order reflecting the staff recommendation. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 12. 
Governor Brimmer joined the meeting during the discussion 
of the preceding item and participated in the action taken concerning 
the matter. 
At this point in the meeting a brief executive session was 
called, and at the conclusion of the executive session Governor 
Sherrill withdrew from the meeting. 

1879 
7/29/71 
-7-
Bank Holding Company Act: insurance activities. The Board 
had outstanding a proposal to amend Regulation Y, Bank Holding 
Companies, to permit bank holding companies to engage in the following 
activities: 
acting as insurance agent or broker principally in 
connection with extensions of credit by the holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries; 
acting as insurer for the holding company and its 
subsidiaries or with respect to insurance sold by the 
holding company or any of its subsidiaries as agent 
or broker. 
Based on analysis of the written comments received 
concerning the proposal, the record of the hearing held on May 12, 
1971, and other relevant material, the Legal Division recommended 
in a memorandum dated July 19, 1971, that section 222.4(a) of Regu-
lation Y be amended to indicate that the following activities had 
been determined by the Board to be so closely related to banking or 
managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
(9) acting as insurance agent or broker with respect 
to the following types of insurance: 
(i) any type of insurance for the holding 
company and its subsidiaries; 
(ii) credit life and credit disability 
insurance for any person; 
(iii) insurance in connection with banking 
services (other than extensions of credit), such 
as insurance against loss of government securities; 

7/29/71 
-8-
(iv) any type of insurance specifically 
requested by a customer provided that the insurance 
is not required by the holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as a condition for an extension of credit; 
(v) any type of insurance sold in a com-
munity with a population not exceeding 5,000; 
(vi) any type of insurance sold in a com-
munity that the holding company is able to demonstrate 
has inadequate insurance agency facilities; and 
(10) acting as insurer with respect to (i) the 
holding company and its subsidiaries, except blanket 
bond insurance for subsidiary banks, and (ii) credit 
life and credit disability insurance. 
The Legal Division's rationale, as explained further at this 
meeting, was that the only significant problem arising from a com-
bination of insurance and banking was the possiblity of structural 
tying, and that the only reason to restrict bank holding companies 
from going into insurance activities was the existence of that 
problem, which loomed largest in the area of extensions of credit. 
That was why the Division felt that descriptions of types of 
insurance that could be sold should not be limited to credit trans-
actions conducted at the banks or other offices of the holding 
company. It was believed that any position taken by the Board would 
be attacked in court, and that the argument would be stronger the 
more the Board tied permissible insurance activities to extensions 
of credit by the holding company or its subsidiaries. 
During the discussion that followed, a majority of the 
members of the Board expressed the view, based on their assessment 

7/29/71 
-9-
of the public interest factor in the light of the complete record, 
including their understanding of Congressional intent, that the 
proposed statement of the scope of permissible activites was too 
broad. As one main point of departure, it was felt that bank holding 
companies should not be given license to go into the insurance 
business generally at whatever locations might be selected, but 
instead only at places where offices of the bank holding company 
or a subsidiary engaged in lending or financing operations already 
were located, without regard to the size of the community involved. 
Accordingly, it was the consensus that the listing of the types of 
insurance for which bank holding companies should be allowed to act 
as agent or broker should be prefaced by a restriction that the 
holding company could act as agent or broker with respect to such 
types of insurance only in offices at which the holding company or 
its subsidiaries were otherwise engaged in business (or in an office 
adjacent thereto). 
The next question related to the types of insurance for 
which a holding company should be permitted to act as agent or 
broker, within the foregoing restriction as to location. In this 
respect it was the consensus that the insurance agency activities of 
holding companies should be governed generally by the concepts 
developed by the Board before the enactment of the Bank Holding 
Company Act Amendments of 1970, with two exceptions. The first 

1882 
7/29/71 
-10-
exception would permit bank holding companies to engage in general 
insurance agency activities in communities in which the holding 
company or a subsidiary had offices engaged in other activities and 
the population of which did not exceed 5,000. The second exception 
would permit bank holding companies to engage in insurance agency 
activities generally in any community that the holding company 
could demonstrate was in need of those services. 
Further discussion and suggestions for restructuring of 
the proposed list of permissible insurance activities for bank 
holding companies, both in the capacity of agent or broker and in 
the capacity of insurer, fell within the framework of the foregoing 
guidelines that it appeared would be acceptable to the members of 
the Board. In some particulars, compromise positions were proposed 
between the views of members who were inclined toward a more restric-
: ' j 
tive approach and those who were inclined toward a more liberal stance. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the staff was requested 
to prepare a revised list of permissible insurance activities of 
bank holding companies that would attempt to synthesize the comments 
at this meeting and would serve as a basis for further consider-
ation of the matter by the Board. 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting during the fore-
going discussion. 

188 
7/29/71 
-11-
Bank Holding Company Act; simplification of procedures. 
In a memorandum of July 19, 1971, the Legal Division discussed 
possible simplification of procedures with respect to the handling 
of proposals under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
involving activities that banks engage in, and with respect to the 
handling of proposals under section 3(a)(1) of the Act to form one-
bank holding companies. 
The Division recommended that the Board dispense with 
procedural requirements with respect to activities proposed to 
be transferred from a bank in the holding company system, if the 
Board had determined such activities to be closely related to banking, 
provided the bank had engaged in the activities de novo or following 
approval by a Federal supervisory agency pursuant to section 18(c) 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. The Division also recommended 
delegation by the Board of its authority to approve the formation of 
one-bank holding companies, in part to the Federal Reserve Banks 
and in part to the Program Director for Banking Structure. 
In discussion it was noted that the proposed regulations 
that had been submitted to implement the Division's recommendations 
would at a minimum have to be modified sufficiently to be compatible 
with the tentative decisions reached today on insurance activities. 
In addition, a view was expressed that a requirement for advance 
notification to the Federal Reserve in all instances was essential. 

1884 
7/29/71 
-12-
One Board member (Governor Robertson) felt that cases not eligible 
for approval by the Reserve Banks under the proposed delegation of 
authority should come to the Board itself for decision rather than 
to the Program Director for Banking Structure, at least until more 
experience with such cases had been gained. Governor Robertson also 
suggested certain editorial-type changes in the proposed rules that 
it was understood the staff would take into consideration. 
Another member of the Board (Governor Maisel) expressed the 
view that notice with respect to any proposed new holding companies 
should be published in the Federal Register. 
With respect to another proposal of the Legal Division, for 
the introduction of simplified procedures for the processing of 
certain acquisitions of finance?companies by bank holding companies, 
it was noted that the memorandum on the subject had just been dis-
tributed and that the Board members had not had a sufficient 
opportunity to study it. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that the proposals for simpli-
fication of procedures would be recast by the staff in the light of 
the comments at this meeting, for further consideration at such 
time as the insurance activity proposals were discussed again by 
the Board. 
Bank Holding Company Act: travel agencies. In a 
memorandum dated July 20, 1971, the staff recommended publication 
of a proposal that engagement in travel agency activities be 

1885 
7/29/71 
-13-
considered a permissible line of activity for bank holding companies 
and that arrangements be made for a public hearing on the matter 
before available members of the Board. 
In discussion it was suggested that the proposal be limited 
in much the same manner as had been indicated by the preceding 
discussion with respect to insurance activities, so that travel 
agency services could be offered only at places where bank holding 
companies or their subsidiaries were located. Board members agreed 
that it might be advisable to hold a hearing on the basis of a limited 
proposal, which could later be broadened in the Board's discretion 
if that seemed desirable. 
The further question was raised whether the travel agency 
matter appeared to be of sufficient importance to warrant priority 
of treatment, and the staff reviewed other proposals for broadening 
the list of permissible activities of bank holding companies that 
were currently under study as the result of requests received or 
otherwise. Board members expressed their desire to receive memoranda 
on the several subjects in sequence as soon as they were available, 
and it was understood that such memoranda would be distributed, to 
be taken up by the Board in such order as appeared appropriate. 
During the course of the discussion concerning travel 
agencies, Governor Brimmer noted that the proposal, as submitted, 
would also have added the issuance of traveler's checks as a 

±886 
7/29/71 
-14-
permissible line of activity for bank holding companies and sub-
j 
sidiaries. He suggested that the staff reexamine the situation 
with respect to American Express Company, in particular to ascertain 
4 
whether there were grounds for determining that company to be a 
4 
bank. 
First National City Overseas Corporation. Action was 
deferred on an application by First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation, New York, New York, for permission to make an indirect 
| 
investment in I.A.C. (Holdings) Limited, Melbourne, Australia, 
1 
pending the availability of additional staff analysis, relating 
generally to the question whether control would be exercised over 
the Australian company. The Board was advised that National City 
I 
had been pressing for actioni'on this matter, and the staff was 
] 
authorized to indicate informally to applicant that on the basis 
' 1 
of the information presently available at least two of the members 
\ 
of the Board would not favor approval of the application. 
Foreign credit restraint. In a memorandum dated July 28, 
-s 
1971, Governor Brimmer noted that in the event of early enactment 
i 
of a requirement for the exemption of export credits from the 
purview of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program, the 
i! 
| 
Board should take actions necessary to give effect to the exemption 
and to preserve the restraints on nonexport financing. At present 
it was not known whether the Congress would require immediate 

7/29/71 
-15-
exemption or whether it would give the Board time to prepare 
complete guidance for banks and nonbank financial institutions. 
If the former, Governor Brimmer proposed that the Board issue a 
notification of the effectiveness of the export exemption, define 
export credits for that purpose, and ask for a standstill on non-
export financing pending the inclusion of more definitive revisions 
in the Program guidelines. Also, he would request the banks and 
nonbank financial institutions to submit information on export 
credits that would be of help both in the surveillance of the 
Program and in the preparation of revisions in the Program. 
Governor Brimmer noted that no action on the part of the 
Board was required at this time since the situation was not yet 
clear. However, he had felt that the Board would want to be 
apprised of the steps that were contemplated, as indicated in 
the drafts of press statement and letter to the Reserve Banks 
attached to his memorandum. 
It was suggested, in discussion, that the proposed call for 
a standstill on nonexport financing would be harsh on banks and 
other financial institutions that had leeway under their ceilings 
at the present time, and it was understood that Governor Brimmer 
would give further consideration to that aspect of the matter. 
First National City Bank. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to First National City Bank, New York, New York, acknowl-
edging without objection notice of its intention to establish 

1888 
7/29/71 
-16-
an additional branch in Nassau, Bahamas. It was noted that First 
National City Bank planned to transfer its main Nassau operation 
to quarters in a new building, but that it planned to continue a 
small branch operation in its present quarters. A copy of the 
letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F' THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
188D 
Item No. 1 
7/29/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R D E S P C N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 29, 1971 
Board of Directors 
First Michigan Bank and Trust Company 
Zeeland, Michigan 
Gentlemen; 
\'} r: 
. . . 
.,. 
. 
j 
. 
, r. 
, 
. 
. 
: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $750,000 
in subordinated notes by First Michigan Bank and Trust Company, 
Zeeland, Michigan, as proposed in Mr. VanDomelen's letter of 
July 14j 1971, with enclosures to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. It is understood that any advertising with respect to 
the obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with 
the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish 
the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting 
forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to 
the claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
V 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

TITLE I2--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHATTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A-- BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
'...., 
. 
v . , 
• 
.••.'•••• 
•/. 
, ' 
•'• 
. 
: - " 
'
'
; 
[Reg. Z] 
. . 
. 
: 
• ' 
. . 
PART 226--TRUTH IN LENDING 
Open End Credit-~Chang© 
in the Method of Determining The Balance 
On Which Finance Charges Are Computed 
§ 226.705 Open end credit--change in the method of determining the balance 
on which finance charges arc computed 
(a) The creditor of an open end crcdit. account plan desires to 
chanSG his method of determining the balance on which finance charges are 
computed from a method in which payments and credits made during the billing 
cycle are not deducted in determining such balance to a method in which such 
Payments and credits are deducted in determining such balance. This change 
tesultR in a reduction in finance charges to the customer, where full payment 
the account is deferred. The question arises whether notice of such 
change is required to be sent to customers of open end credit accounts under 
^ 226.7(e), since that Section also provides that prior notice is not 
teciuirecl if the only change is a reduction in the "periodic rate or rates, 
in any minimum, fixed, check service, transaction, activity, or similar 
applicable to the account." 
(b) Where a creditor changes his method of determining the balance 
°n tohiijh finance charges are computed from a method in which payments and 
*tedits made during the billing cycle are not deducted in determining such 
^luitce, to a method in which such payments and credits are deducted in 
Item Na4 
, 
7/29/71 
^ 
S-2166a 

. 'V 
%termining such balance, § 226.7(c) requires no prior notice of such change 
In terms, provided no other changes in terms applicable to the account are 
toade simultaneously which would require § 226.7(e) notification. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U-S.C. 1637) 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 29, 1971. 
(pinned) Kenneth A. Konyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
1892 
OF* THE 
Item No. 3 
7/29/71 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20D51 
A D D R E S S 
O F K I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
H r e s ^ 
July 29, 1971 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
Corporation 
40 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of June 22, 1971, as amended, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("WFBIC") 
to purchase and hold either directly or indirectly through Wells 
Fargo International Investment Corporation ("WFIIC") up Lo approxi-
mately 62 per cent of the outstanding shares of Allgemeine Deutsche 
Credit-Ans talt, ("ADCA"), Frankfurt /Ha in, Germany, at a cost of ap-
proximately $12,800,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also 
approves the purchase and holding of shares of ADC A in excess of 15 per 
cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of ADCA by WFBIC or WFIIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if ADCA shall in any manner engage in any 
activity or take any action whatsoever that would not be 
permissible if ADCA were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in 
banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, WFBIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of ADCA as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by ADCA 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if ADCA were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and, 

±883 
Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
-2-
(4) .That WFBIC or WFIIC shall not carry on their books 
the shares of ADCA at a net amount in excess of 
their proportionate share of the book capital accounts 
of ADCA, after giving effect to the elimination of 
all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c.) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for ADCA to engage in the busi-
ness of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board has deter-
mined that such activities are usual in the business of banking in 
Germany. The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned upon 
your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the 
continued holding of shares of ADCA should ADCA acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 
25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except in the case 
of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from sub-
underwriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in secu-
rities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the 
provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that ADCA will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, 
maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
The Board has noted that ADCA's subsidiaries and affiliates 
included Hotel Austria A.G., Vienna; Sachsische Revisions in 
Treuhandgesellschaft, Munich, an auditing company; Feuchtwanger 
Vermogengs Verwaltungs Gesellschaft, Munich, a management company; 
and Preusker & Thelen Haus u. Heimbau GmbH, Bonn, a building com-
pany. It is understood that the hotel company is to be sold and 
that the three other companies are completely inactive. The fore-
going consent for your investment in ADCA is granted on the further 
condition that ADCA will have reduced its investment in the hotel 
company to a minority interest within one year from the date of 
this letter and that the other three companies remain inactive. 

Wells Fargo Bank 
International Corporation 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to Wells Fargo Bank National Association 
and its subsidiaries, and that full consideration is being given to 
the priorities for U.S. export financing and for meeting the credit 
needs of developing countries. 
It is further understood that the 
foreign lending and investment activities of WFIIC will be governed 
by the Guidelines, in particular by those provisions which call for 
the foreign assets of WFIIC, minus outstanding amounts of foreign 
borrowings by WFIIC of an original maturity of three years or more, 
to be consolidated with the foreign assets of your Corporation lor 
the purposes of the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1895 
Item No. 4 
7/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST SEBANCO, INC., 
Glendive, Montana, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
50.4 per cent of the voting shares 
First Security Bank of Glendive, 
Glendive, Montana. 
ORDER DENYING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(l)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Sebanco, Inc., Glendive, 
Montana ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
5 < U per cent of the voting shares of First Security Bank of Glendive, 
Glendive, Montana ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n°tiCe of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks of 
th* State of Montana and requested his views and recommendation. The 
SuPerintendent recommended approval of the application. 

- 2 -
I8se 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on April 22, 1971 (36 Federal Register 7623), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consid-
eration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1 8 9 7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST SEBANCO, INC., GLENDIVE, MONTANA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST SECURITY BANK OF GLENDIVE, GLENDIVE, MONTANA 
STATEMENT 
First Sebanco, Inc., Glendive, Montana ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
50.4 per cent of the voting shares of First Security Bank of Glendive, 
Glendive, Montana. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
°f receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks of 
the State of Montana and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Superintendent in recommending approval of the application 
indicated that he foresaw no detrimental effect in the proposed 
change of bank ownership, provided the bank dividends were con-
tinued at their present rate. 

189 8 
- 2 -
Statutory, considerations. Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking 
in any part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a pro-
posed acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, 
may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a 
monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the pro-
posed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board 
is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. 
Insurance Activities. Applicant is a general insurance 
agency. Section 3 of the Act permits Board approval of the acqui- . 
sition of a bank by such a company, if such transaction is deter-
mined to be in the public interest.. Section 4 of the Act, however, 
requires that, within two years of acquiring the bank, the company 
cease to engage in nonbanking activities or obtain the Board's approval under 
section 4(c)(8) for their continuation. 

1899 
- 3 -
The Board has outstanding a proposed amendment to its 
Regulation Y ("Bank Holding Companies") that would declare certain 
types of insurance activities to be permissible for bank holding com-
panies subject to Board approval in individual cases. The Board's action 
today is not intended to reflect its views on the permissibility of the 
insurance activities of Applicant, 
Nature of the transaction. Applicant, an operating insurance 
agency, formerly Exchange Investors, Inc., received a certificate of 
incorporation from the State of Montana on January 4, 1971, to become 
a bank holding company and conduct a general insurance business in 
Glendive, Montana, a town of 6,305 inhabitants. Applicant operates on 
1/ 
the premises of Bank ($12 million deposits). 
Mr. George C. Johnson is Chairman of the Board of Bank and 
President of Applicant, and has been associated with its predecessor 
organizations since the first organization of the insurance agency 
in 1954. Mr. Johnson owns 67.2 per cent of the stock of Bank per-
sonally; he and his family together control 70.2 per cent, and other 
directors of Bank and their families control an additional 25.5 per 
cent. Shareholders unrelated to Bank's officers own the remain-
ing 4,3 per cent of Bank's stock. Mr. Johnson proposes to 
trans far voting shares representing 50.4 per cent of the stock of 
Bank to Applicant in return for 96 per cent of the 500 shares of 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1970. 

19*0 
- 4 -
Applicant's Outstanding stock. No formal offer has been made to 
acquire the interests of minority shareholders or permit them to 
share in the exchange. 
Statutory considerations. Applicant has no banking sub-
sidiaries and consummation of the proposal would not eliminate 
existing or, potential competition among the area's banking offices 
or among local insurance agencies. 
However, other aspects of the proposal cause substantial 
concern. First, the failure of an applicant to make an equivalent 
offer to minority shareholders has long been regarded by the Board 
as an adverse circumstance. More importantly, Applicant's acqui-
sition debt may adversely affect prospects of Applicant and Bank. 
In applications involving multibank holding companies, 
the Board has considered significant debt to acquire banks as 
being an adverse factor. (E.g. 1970 Bulletin 948.) Such debt 
may adversely affect the company itself, or lessen the ability 
of the company to furnish capital to its subsidiary banks as 
needed. Thus, the amount and maturity of the debt must be con-
sidered in relation to the ability of the holding company to 
service the debt, and the likelihood that the subsidiary banks 
will need capital. The debt factor is then balanced with other 
considerations in determining whether the acquisition would be 
in the public interest. 

1901 
- 5 -
The record reflects the following f^cts: Applicant proposes 
to assume $219,000 debt (now owed by Mr. Johnson to a third party 
bank) which would result in a debt-to-equity ratio of 105 per cent. 
The loan bears interest at 4-1/2 per cent per year and is renewable 
annually; it is contemplated that the loan will be repaid in seven 
to nine years. Assuming all of Applicant's insurance activities to 
be permissible (which is not in issue in this application), Applicant 
estimates that net insurance income added to projected dividends of 
Bank will be sufficient to meet its debt obligations. However, 
Applicant's gross commission income has been declining,and there is 
some question whether Applicant could maintain its percentage of 
net to gross income. 
Furthermore, data submitted by Applicant 
indicate that funds available for debt service would not cover the 
anticipated reduction of the principal and interest. In view of 
these considerations, Applicant's ability to service the debt 
is questionable. 
The financial history and condition of Bank can be con-
sidered to be fairly satisfactory and capital has recently improved 
to a reasonably- satisfactory level because of retained earnings. 
Under all of the circumstances in this case, the Board 
concludes that the acquisition debt involved in this proposal 
presents adverse circumstances bearing on the financial condition 

and prospects bf Appiicaht and Bank. Such circumstances are not 
outweighed by any procompetitive factors or by circumstances relat-
ing to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Accordingly, approval of the application is not in the public 
interest and it should be denied. 
July 29, 1971. 

1903 
Item No. 5 
7/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D # C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
MIDLANTIC BANKS INC., 
1 
Newark, New Jersey, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 100 per 
1 
cent (less directors1 qualifying shares) 
1 
of the voting shares of the successor 
1 
by merger to Citizens National Bank, 
1 
Englewood, New Jersey. 
1 
ORDER DENYING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, 
Hew Jersey, a registered bank holding company, for the Board's prior 
approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors1 qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of the successor by merger to Citizens 
National Bank, Englewood, New Jersey. 

1904 
- 
2 -
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on March 3, 1971 (36 Federal Register 4081), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 29, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor 
Daane. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
MIDLANTIC BANKS INC., NEWARK, NEW JERSEY 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
CITIZENS NATIONAL BANK, ENGLEWOOD, NEW JERSEY 
STATEMENT 
Midlantic Banks Inc., Newark, New Jersey ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of the voting shares of the successor by merger to Citizens National 
Bank, Engleuood, Net? Jersey ("Citizens Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comp-
troller of the Currency of receipt of the application and re-
quested his views and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller 
recommended approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. Section 3(c) of the Act pro-
vides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 

1906 
- 
2 
-
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or 
f] 
conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve 
a proposed acquisition the effect of x^hich, in any section of the 
country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to 
create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint 
of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of 
the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest 
by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board 
I 
is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. Applicant 
controls four banks with aggregate deposits of $678 million and is 
the fourth largest banking organization in New Jersey, with 4.9 per 
cent of the deposits in the State.-^ The acquisition of Bank 
(deposits of $194 million) would increase Applicant's share of 
deposits in the State to 6.3 per cent and make it the largest 
banking organization in the State. The acquisition would also 
increase Applicant's share of deposits in the First Banking District 
from 8.7 per cent to 11.3 per cent. 
<4 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1970, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through March 31, 1971. 

1907 
- 3 -
Applicant presently has two subsidiaries in the First 
District: National Newark & Essex Bank ("National Newark"), a 
$602 million institution which is the fourth largest bank in New 
Jersey and the third largest bank in Newark; and The Sussex & 
Merchants National Bank of Newton, a $46 million institution which 
is the largest of four relatively small banks in Sussex County. 
It also controls a bank in the Second District: Raritan Valley 
National Bank, Edison Township, a $22 million bank which is the 
ninth largest of 20 banks located in Middlesex County; and a bank 
in the Third District: Elmer Bank & Trust Company, Elmer, an $8 
million bank which is the fourth largest of seven banks located in 
Salem County0 
Citizens Bank, located in Bergen County in the First 
District, has deposits of $194 million. It is the fifth largest 
2/ 
of 39 banking organizations in the Paterson market— and the 
eleventh largest of 88 banks in the First District. 
There is no present competition existing between Applicant's 
three smaller subsidiaries and Citizens Bank and, based on the facts 
of record, there is unlikely to develop substantial competition. Nor 
would consummation of the acquisition eliminate substantial present 
competition between Citizens Bank and Applicant's largest subsidiary, 
National Newark. Despite the fact that these institutions are in 
2/ Bergen and Passaic Counties constitute the Paterson market. 

13(]S 
- 4 -
adjoining markets and that their closest offices are 12 miles apart, 
the record indicates that there is little deposit or loan overlap 
between the institutions. 
However the elimination of present competition is not the 
only competitive aspect that the Board must consider in determining 
whether the approval of an acquisition would be in the public interest. 
In connection with the review of the application, the 
Board has considered a comment from the Department of Justice which 
concluded that consummation of the proposal "would have an adverse 
effect on competition11. The Department took the position that the 
proposal would eliminate Applicant as a potential de novo entrant 
or as an entrant through purchase of a small or "foothold" bank 
into Bergen County and also would eliminate Bank as a potential 
member of a new holding company system in New Jersey. The Department 
further expressed concern that the acquisition of Bank would serve to 
trigger additional acquisitions which would result in the consolidation 
of commercial banking in the North Jersey area in a few institutions. 
The Commissioner of Banking for the State of New Jersey 
also commented upon the proposal. He expressed his concern that approval 
of the acquisition of Bank "could be instrumental in establishing a 
precedent for similar concentration, which could be accompanied by 
serious anticompetitive ramifications." 

1909 
- 5 -
Applicant was offered an opportunity to respond to the 
contentions of the Commissioner and the Department. It replied to 
the Commissioner's statement by stating that approval of its pro-
posal would have little precedential value because each individual 
proposal has a unique character which differentiates it from other 
proposals. Applicant answered the Justice Department's comments by 
stating that the possibility of the opening of de novo branches in 
the market area of Bank was extremely restricted by home office pro-
visions and population limitations. Applicant further stated, "While 
the acquisition of a smaller bank than Citizens is theoretically pos-
sible, the economic feasibility is here limited by the earnings dilution 
involved in the acquisition of such banks resulting from the highly 
unrealistic market price which has been caused by the new law 
[permitting intradistrict mergers] and by constant emphasis on the 
acquisition of small banks as a desirable entrance medium." More-
over, Applicant argued that either de novo or foothold entry would 
not be as procompetitive as entry through acquisition of Bank because 
only such an acquisition would provide a sufficiently large base 
for competition by the proposed subsidiary with the large New York banks. 
The Board recognizes that additional competition with the 
larger New York City banks for large customer services would result 
from approval of the application. While this result is in the public 
interest insofar as those customers are concerned, the Board must also 

- 6 -
1910 
consider any adverse effects to other segments of the banking public. 
The Board agrees with the Department and the Commissioner that there 
will be important adverse effects on competition resulting from con-
summation of the acquisition. 
First, substantial potential competition would be foreclosed 
in the Peterson area. Bank is the fifth largest of 39 banking 
organizations in the Patercon market, which is adjacent to the 
greater Newark market in which Applicant's largest subsidiary is 
located. Applicant's significant size and its competitive capability 
in this latter market make it one of the most likely potential 
entrants into the Paterson market. That market, as are many of the 
banking markets, is relatively concentrated in that four banks have 
over 55 per cent of the deposits, A number of communities which are 
attractive and capable of supporting entry are available to Applicant 
in the Paterson market. That market appears to be attractive for entry 
in view of its proximity to New York City. In fact, since 1969, 
seven banking organizations not represented in that market have 
opened new branches in the area0 Additionally, there are 26 in-
dependent banks in the "Pd'ters'on market, each with deposits of 
under $100 million, whose acquisition by Applicant would be less 
anticompetitive than the acquisition of Bank. These alternatives 
bring substantial x^eight against approval of the present proposal. 

» 7 -
1911 
Second, Bank is a desirable subsidiary for a holding 
company located in either the Second or Third Banking District of 
New Jersey, If Applicant is permitted to acquire Bank, this would 
prevent a bank holding company from the other districts from using 
Bank as a means of entry into the First Banking District. 
Third, the approval of the application could presage a 
trend towards concentration within banking districts which would 
have anticompetitive consequences for the small and medium size 
banking customers uho need a sufficient number of alternatives to 
compete for their business. "While the Board is not required to 
follow precedent which subsequent developments establish to be 
improvident, it should avoid establishing a precedent which, if 
consistently applied will clearly do violence to the letter and spirit 
of the legislation which it has the duty of impartially administering." 
(1968 Bulletin 925) 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly or be 
in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to mono-
polize the business of banking in any area. However, the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposal are sufficiently serious as to provide sig-
nificant weight against approval of the application. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 

satisfactory, their management is capable, and prospects of the 
group are favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are generally 
satisfactory, and its prospects, whether operating independently or 
as a subsidiary of Applicant, are favorable. 
These considerations, while consistent with approval of 
the application, provide no significant weight in support of such 
action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. Con-
summation of Applicant's proposal would have an adverse effect on 
the convenience and needs of Englewood since it would preserve Bank's 
home office protection under New Jersey law and close that city to 
branching from without, (On the other hand, merger with Bank would 
remove the home office protection from Englewood.) 
While no ad-
ditional types of banking services would be introduced into the 
Patorson market as a result of the proposed affiliation with 
Applicant, an additional competitive alternative for larger customers 
would be provided. The consideration of ccn tinued home office pro-
tection provides weight against approval of the application which is 
not offset by other factors relating to convenience and needs. 
Summary and conclusion. On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction xjould not be in the public interest, and the application 
should be denied. 
July 29, 1971. 

mmm 
1913 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS MITCHELL AND SHERRILL 
We concur in the majority view that the application 
it-
should be denied. However, we have a differing judgment as to 
the weight to be given several factors involved in the appli-
• 
t" 
cation. 
The majority rely heavily on what they consider to be 
a substantial lessening of potential competition that would 
p" 
result from approval of the application. They give relatively 
little weight to the procompetitive benefits that would result 
$ 
from approval. 
I:, 
In our judgment, the procompetitive aspects are entitled 
to greater weight. Northern New Jersey and Bergen County are 
closely linked to the New York City market and New Jersey banks 
must compete with the large New York banks for both individual 
and business customers. What is needed in New Jersey is less 
fragmentation of its banking resources. In the New York City 
metropolitan area a $200 million bank is a relatively modest sized 
i 
institution. To more nearly meet the competition of the larger 
banks across the river, New Jersey needs larger banks. The merging 
of Applicant and Bank would strengthen the resources needed to better 
match competitive alternatives in New York. Without affiliation with 
Applicant, Bank will remain a comparatively passive competitive 
factor in the Northern New Jersey-New York City area. 
il 

1914 
- 2 -
• 
We would file a dissent from the majority in this case 
were it not for the fact that approval of the application would 
mean that Bank's existing -home office protection" would continue 
to close the community of Englewood to new branches for the 
foreseeable future. "Home office protection" is basically 
inconsistent with a competitive banking system. It continues to 
survive in some States even though public policy at the national 
level, and in m o s t States, increasingly stresses the need to 
achieve and maintain competitive banking conditions. 
• 
• 
If Applicant sought to merge Bank with its lead bank. 
National Newark and Essex, home office protection would be 
TO 
llH.:: 
eliminated in Englewood. We would encourage Applicant to explore 
this method of affiliation. 
On the basis of the facts of record we would deny 
the application. 
' If!
July 29, 1971. 

1915 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/29/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
r j U A R D 
July 29, 1971 
Mr0 J.F.C0 Hyde, Jr., for 
Assistant Director for Legislative 
Reference 
Executive Office of the President 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, DoC. 20503 
Dear Mr. Hyde: 
This letter responds to your request for the views 
of the Board of Governors on the proposed letter from the 
Chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers to Congress-
man Patman concerning H. Con. Resc 328„ 
The Board agrees with the general position set 
forth in the draft CEA letter—namely, that the drastic 
action proposed in the resolution is inadvisable. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A„ Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
191S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 7 
o- - •^' o* 
f*AL 
RF.Sf-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C t 
T U T H E 
B D A R D 
7/29/71 
July 29, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Platte Valley Bank 
Brighton, Colorado 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Platte Valley Bank, Brighton, 
Colorado, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of its 
business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to member-
ship . 
2. The net: capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
• have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $150,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$270,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation 11, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

191T 
Board of Directors 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letLer should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 60 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

19±£ 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
SYSTEM 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
OFFICE OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 8 
7/29/71 
July 30, 1971 
Mr. Harold T. Swartz 
Acting Commissioner 
Internal Revenue Service 
U. S. Treasury Department 
12th Street and Constitution Avenue 
Washington, D. C. 20224 
Dear Mr. Swartz: 
This is in response to your letter of July 14, 1971 
wherein, having advised of a current investigation by Internal 
Revenue Service involving the Valley Bank of Nevada, Las Vegas, 
Nevada (formerly Bank of Las Vegas), you request that there be 
made available to agents of the Internal Revenue Service reports 
of examination of the subject bank, the specific reports having 
been ascertained in a conversation between Mr. Frank L. Smith of 
your staff and Mr. Brenton C. Leavitt of the Board's staff. 
As reflected in the enclosed copy of letter to Vice 
President Jennings of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
the Board has authorized access by Internal Revenue Service to the 
reports of examination identified in the enclosed letter, subject 
to the limitations and circumstances set forth. It is suggested 
that your representatives contact Vice President Jennings to arrange 
a date mutually convenient for study of the reports to which access 
has been given. 
Re: Valley Bank of Nevada 
Las Vegas, Nevada 
(Formerly: Bank of Las Vegas) 
Your ref: CP:I:0 
Sincerely 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
Enclosure 

' bv 
. 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• r T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
7/29/71 
A D D R E S S 
D r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
HOARD 
July 30, 1971 
llr. Irwin L. Jennings 
Senior Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
San Francisco, California 94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
The Board is in receipt of a letter from the Internal 
Revenue Service dated July 14, 1971, a copy of which is enclosed, 
requesting that the Board make available for inspection by IRS 
agents reports of examination prepared by your Bank of the Valley 
liank of Nevada, Las Vegas, Nevada (formerly Bank of Las Vegas). 
This request is related to an IRS investigation the general nature 
of which is stated in the enclosed letter. Specifically, IRS has 
advised Mr. Brenton C. Leavitt of the Board's staff of its desired 
access to the following reports of examination: reports of exami-
nation of the Bank of Las Vegas at May 14, 1965, June 13, 1966, 
February 6, 1967, March 18, 1968 and March 24, 1969, and of the 
Valley Bank of Nevada at July 13, 1970. The Board is advised 
that IRS desires access to these reports at your Bank and under 
mutually convenient circumstances. 
Pursuant to the provisions of 12 CFR 261.6(b), the Board 
has authorized access by IRS representatives to the reports of 
examination identified above and on your Bank's premises, it being 
understood that, as agreed in the IRS letter of request, any infor-
mation obtained from the reports of examination will be used by IRS 
only as leads to develop evidence independently of such source, and 
further that such information as may be obtained from the reports 
will not be used in any judicial action. The Board's authorization 
contemplates IRS access to such additional documents in your posses-
sion as you may determine are relevant to the course of the subject 
investigation. The latter access is subject to the same conditions 
and limitations as imposed upon access to the reports of examination. 

1920 
ill 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
-2-
There is enclosed for your information a copy of the 
letter to Acting Commissioner Harold T. Swartz from Governor 
Robertson advising of the Board's action in this matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 

1921 
TITLE 12'--BANKS AND BANKING 
I 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL UNSERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265—RULES REGARDING DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
Availability of Information 
In order to expedite and facilitate its response to 
requests for information of the Board, the Board is amending its 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority to delegate to the General 
Counsel of the Board authority (1) to make available to other 
agencies of the United States for use where necessary in their 
official duties certain information regarding supervised institu-
tions, and (2) to determine, in any case of service of subpoena on 
an officer, employee or agent of the Board or of a Federal Reserve 
Bank, the response to such subpoena. 
The delegation is reflected in the following amendment to 
5 265.2(b) of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority: 
§ 265.2 Specific functions delegated to Board employees 
and Federal Reserve Banks. 
-v\ 
* 
Vr ' 
* 
* 
* . 
( b ) The General Counsel of the,Board (or, in his absence, 
the Acting General Counsel) is authorized: 
Vf 
vV 
* 
-V 
* 
Item No. 10 
7/29/71 

(5) Pursuant to the provisions of Part 261 of this chapter, 
to make available information of the Board of the nature and in the 
circumstances described in § 261.6(b) and § 261.7 of that Part. 
•k 
-k 
-k 
k 
k 
Effective date; 
j ui y 29, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1923 
Item No. 11 
7/29/71 
S-2167 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P C N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 30, 1971 
Enclosed are the Board's Instructions Regarding 
Telegraphic Transfers of Funds revised effective August 12, 1971, 
These instructions are intended to implement the related section 
of the statement of policy on the payments mechanism which was 
adopted by the Board on June 10, 1971. 
The enclosed instructions supersede those transmitted 
with the Board's letter of December 28, 1956, and subsequently 
amended (F.R.L.S. #270.05). 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

S-2167-a 
1924 
270.05 Instruction* Kareling Telegraphic Transfers of Funds 
UNIFORM PARAGRAPHS IN CIRCULARS 
The following paragraphs contain instructions for the 
telegraphic transfers of funds which are made by Federal Reserve 
Banks and Branches for member banks. These paragraphs should be 
included by all Federal Reserve Banks in their circulars to member 
and nonmernber clearing banks. 
Transfers of Bank Balances for and to Member Banks 
Telegraohic transfers of funds between Federal Reserve 
Banks (which as herein used shall include branches of Federal Reserve 
Banks) of bank balances in any amount of $1,000 or over will be made 
without charge for member banks to member banks and for member banks 
to nonmernber clearing banks. A charge of $1.50 will be made for 
such transfers in amounts of under $1,000. Such telegraphic trans-
fers of bank balances may contain descriptive third party information 
not exceeding four 80-character lines of alphabetic data 
While 
such transfers will be accepted only from member banks and paid only 
to member banks or nonmernber clearing banks, through the utilization 
of descriptive third party information, they may be for the use ot 
any bank, individual, firm, or corporation. 
The term "bank balance" shall be construed to mean an 
accumulation of funds comprising an established account maintained 
by a member bank with its Federal Reserve Bank or with another member 
bank. 
Advice of Credit 
Mail advice of credit for all telegraphic transfers of 
funds will be given by the Federal Reserve Bank receiving the trans-
fer to the member or nonmernber clearing bank receiving credit therefor 
and, in addition, immediate advice of credit, by telegraph, telephone, 
or otherwise, will be given when the bank receiving credit or the 
bank requesting the transfer has asked for such immediate advice, 
or where the nature of the transaction, or the amount involved 
indicates that the additional expense is justified, as to which the 
receiving Federal Reserve Bank will exercise its discretion. 

- 2 -
19S& 
Liability of the Federal Reserve Bank 
The Federal Reserve Bank of 
w i l 1 u s e d u e 
diligence and care in the transfers of funds by telegraph to the 
receiving Federal Reserve Bank for credit to the account of the 
payee bank, but will not be responsible for errors or delays caused 
by circumstances beyond its control. 
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS WHICH NEED NOT 
BE INCLUDED IN CIRCULARS 
The following paragraphs contain additional instructions 
relating to telegraphic transfers of funds for member banks. While 
these instructions should be followed by all Federal Reserve Banks, 
they need not be included in operating circulars. 
Messages - Clear Language or in Code 
All messages involving the transfers of funds sent by form 
transmission equipment over the leased wire shall be in clear language 
Messages involving the transfers of funds sent over the leased wires 
by conventional equipment shall be in code. 
Messages involving the transfers of funds sent by TWX 
equipment or by commercial wires shall be sent in Federal Reserve 
code. 
Losses, if Any 
Any loss resulting from negligence on the part of the 
Federal Reserve System in connection with the telegraphic transfers 
of funds shall be borne by the sending Federal Reserve Bank, unless 
responsibility definitely can be placed upon the Federal Reserve 
Bank to which the telegram was addressed. 
Requests for Transfers - Closing Hours 
Requests for telegraphic transfers of funds for consumma-
tion on date of receipt should be accepted by Federal Reserve Banks 
up to 2:30 p.m. local time of the Federal Reserve Bank to which 
transfer is to be made, but in no case later than 3:00 p.m. local 
time of the Federal Reserve Bank from which the transfer is to be 
dispatched. 

-3-
1928 
On infrequent occasions, any Reserve Bank or Branch might 
agree with any other Bank or Branch to accept up to a later hour 
individual requests for consummation on day of receipt if so 
authorized by the office receiving credit. Such exceptions should 
be limited to transfers to clear overdrafts and other emergency 
situat ions. 
Effective August 12, 1971 

Item No. 56 
7/29/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
x 
In the Matter of the Application of 
» 
PHMFG CORPORATION 
Washington, D. C* 
1 
for an exemption from Securities Credit 
1 
Regulations in connection with certain 
bank loans for the purpose of acquiring 
1 
all the pssets of F.I. duPont, Glore 
Forgan & Co. 
1 
x 
ORDER REVISING AND REISSUING ORDER 
" EXEMPTING CERTAIN LOANS BY 
BANKS FROM SECURITIES CREDIT REGULATIONS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 7(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 73g(d)) 
and sections 207.1(f)(3) of Federal Reserve Regulation G (12 
CFR 207.1(f)(3)) and 221.2(_L) of Federal Reserve Regulation U (12 
CFR 221.2(J.), the application of PHMFG Corporation, Washington, D.C. 
("Applicant"), a corporation organized and existing under the laws 
of the District of Columbia, for a further modification of the Board's 
Order dated April 2, 1971, and modified on May 11, 1971 (the "Order"). 
The Order exempted from securities credit regulations certain bank 
loans for the purpose of providing capital to the corporate successor 

1928 
- 2 -
to the business of F. I. duPont, Glore Forgan & Co., a registered 
broker/dealer and member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. Such 
successor is referred to herein as "duPont". 
As required by sections 207.1(f)(3) of Regulation G 
and 221.2(1) of Regulation U, the Board has obtained certifi-
cation by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ("SIPC") 
that circumstances exist as to the financial condition of duPont 
which make it appropriate for the exemption to be granted. The 
Board has considered the application in the light of the factors 
set forth in section 7(d) of the Act and in addition has obtained 
such certification by the SIPC. 
On the basis of the information set forth in the appli-
cation, or otherwise available, the Board finds that: 
(1) Applicant has concluded a loan agreement 
with a group of banks pursuant to which 
it may borrow in the aggregate amount of 
up to $50 million ("bank loans"). 
(2) The proceeds of all bank loans and any 
proceeds drawn under the bank letters 
of credit as described in finding (5) 
hereinbelow are required to be made 
available to duPont for capital purposes. 
(3) Applicant may transfer its rights as a 
creditor of duPont to a limited partner-
ship ("Parent Partnership") organized 
under the laws of the State of Texas, 
in which Messrs. H. Ross Perot, Morton 
H. Meyerson, and Milledge A. Hart, III 
are the general partners. Applicant 
is wholly-owned by such partnership. 

1929 
- 3 -
$20 million in bank loans has been 
drawn down under such,loan agreement 
and additional monies will be drawn 
down as needed. 
Parent Partnership may obtain two successive 
bank letters of credit, each in the amount 
of $15 million, which will be made available 
to duPont for capital purposes; the second 
letter of credit will not be issuable as long 
as any portion of the first letter of credit 
is outstanding or as long as any proceeds 
drawn under the first letter of credit remain 
owing. 
Upon consideration of all the circumstances, the Board 
concludes that an exemption from securities credit regulations for 
the purpose of providing the substantial infusion of capital into 
duPont, as contemplated by Applicant and/or Parent Partnership would 
be appropriate in the public interest and for the protection of 
investors. Accordingly, the Order is hereby revised and it is hereby 
ordered that the transactions described above are exempted from the 
securities credit regulations provided: 
(1) The maximum principal amount of the bank 
loan or loans by Applicant under the loan 
agreement shall not exceed $50 million in 
the aggregate. 
(2) The maximum principal amount of the bank letters 
of credit obtained by Parent Partnership and 
made available to duPont for capital purposes 
shall not exceed $15 million at any one time. 
(4) 
(5) 
(3) When any transaction or transactions occur 
that result in a net withdrawal of capital 
from duPont by Applicant or by Parent Partner-
ship, the proceeds of such withdrawal less the 
net amount of Federal, State and local income 
tax directly attributable to such transaction 
or transactions shall be used to reduce or re-
tire said bank loan or loans or any indebted-
ness resulting from said bank letters of credit. 

1930 
- 4 -
(4) Applicant or Parent Partnership or a successor 
controlled by Mr. H. Ross Perot or his estate 
shall become and remain a controlling person 
of duPont as long as all or any portion of 
said bank loan or loans, said bank letters of 
credit or any indebtedness resulting from such 
letters of credit is outstanding other than any 
portion attributable to such income tax. 
(5) This Order shall expire when all the said bank 
loan or loans have been repaid in full and the 
said bank letters of credit have terminated and 
any indebtedness resulting from said letters of 
credit has been repaid in full but in no event 
later than May 11, 1979. 
(6) The remaining portion of the bank loan or 
loans may be drawn down as needed but in no 
event later than 6 months prior to May 11, 
1979. 
(7) One of the said bank letters of credit shall 
be drawn down by November 1, 1971 and the 
other may be drawn upon as needed but in no 
event later than 6 months prior to May 11, 
1979. 
This Order revises the Board's Orders dated April 2, 
1971 and May 11, 1971. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 29, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
SEAL 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 13 
7/29/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E H O A R D 
July 30, 1971 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
This will acknowledge your letter of July 2, 1971, 
(received July 12, 1971) advising, pursuant to Regulation M, of 
your intention to establish an additional branch in Nassau, Bahamas. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before August 1, 1972, it will be deemed that plans 
for its establishment have been abandoned, in which event authority 
to establish the branch under the notice furnished in your letter 
of July 2, 1971, will automatically terminate. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in the 
location of the branch in Nassau. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view 
of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 

193£ 
First National City Bank 
-2-
required will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National City Bank and its subsidiaries, and 
that full consideration is being given to the priorities for U.S. 
export financing and for raeeting the credit needs of developing 
countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
