MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 7, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 7, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr.' Mais el 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Economic review. A review of the kind customarily offered in 
advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was presented, 
the reports being based to some extent on materials compiled in 
preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee. Copies of the 
relevant materials have been placed in the Committee's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Brill and Partee of the Division 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

o o l 
10/7/68 
-2-
of Research and Statistics and Messrs. Solomon, Sammons, and Irvine 
of the Division of International Finance withdrew from the meeting, 
as did Messrs. Broida and Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, and Sanders of the Legal 
Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Maguire of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign banking matters. A letter to Marine Midland Overseas 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to its proposed 
acquisition of stock of Eurocard International, S.A., Brussels, Belgium, 
w a s approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
A letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, amending the 
terms of the Board's consent to the acquisition of shares of Banco 
Intercontinental Espanol, Madrid, Spain, was approved unanimously. A 
copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Merrill Trust Company. On June 5, 1968, the Board had approved 
the application of The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor,. Maine, to merge 
with Hammond Street Trust Company, also of Bangor, a newly-organized 

3618 
10/7/68 
-3-
"interim" bank, along with the application made on behalf of the latter 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System, subject to the condition 
that the actions be consummated within three months. The resulting 
institution was to become a subsidiary of Merrill Bankshares Company, 
a newly-organized corporation that would first become a one-bank holding 
company and eventually, with the Board's approval, a registered bank 
holding company. 
Since a tax ruling on the proposed merger transaction had not 
yet been received, an extension of time had now been requested within 
which to accomplish membership for Hammond Street Trust Company and 
for merger of that institution into Merrill Trust Company. The Board's 
staff concurred in the favorable recommendation of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston. 
After discussion, the granting of an extension of time, as 
requested, was approved unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to 
Merrill Trust Company is attached as Item No. 3. 
Delegation of authority. In its memorandum of September 24, 
1963, relating to the aforementioned case, the staff recommended that 
the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Certain Functions of a Non-
statutory and Nonregulation Nature be amended to authorize Federal 
Reserve Banks to grant extensions of time to consummate approved merger 
transactions. 
(Such authority had already been granted with respect to 
applications for System membership.) 

k'JKjt JL / 
10/7/68 
-4-
The suggested amendment also would broaden the area of conside-
ration for Reserve Banks in determining whether to grant extensions of 
time to accomplish acquisitions by bank holding companies. A Reserve 
Bank was presently authorized to extend the time for a holding company 
to acquire shares in connection with an approved application if no 
material change had occurred in the company's general condition since 
the application was approved. Under the suggested amendment the Reserve 
Bank's authority with respect to both merger and holding company 
proposals would extend to situations where no material change that was 
relevant to the proposal had occurred. 
In discussion, some concern was expressed that uneven treatment 
might result unless adequate criteria were provided, and there was genera 
agreement that the Reserve Banks should be furnished appropriate stan-
dards for their guidance. 
Subject to the understanding that such guidance would be 
supplied, the recommended broadening of the delegation of authority was 
.approved unanimously. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
Interest on deposits. A memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
October 2, 1968, commented on the provisions of Public Law 90-505, 
enacted September 21, 1968, which extended for one year 
(to September 22 
1969) the authority to regulate rates of interest payable on time or 
savings accounts. 

3 3 I S 
10/7/68 
-5-
One of the provisions granted to the Board and to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation permanent authority (and to the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board temporary authority) to prescribe regulations with 
respect to advertisement of interest or dividends. Previously, since 
there had been some question as to the authority of the Board to 
prescribe such regulations, the Board had adopted a statement of policy. 
Now the Board could incorporate into its Regulation Q, Payment of 
Interest on Deposits, the principles of the statement of policy as well 
as any other permissible rule. Or, if the Board preferred, it could 
continue the statement of policy and expand it to clarify certain points 
that had proved to be confusing. 
Other provisions of the new legislation broadened the authority 
of the regulatory agencies with respect to other aspects of the pay-
ment of interest on deposits, and the Legal Division suggested that 
such authority might be applied to the area of so-called grace periods. 
One alternative would be to allow no grace periods for time deposits 
and only a 10-day grace period for savings deposits. 
Governor Robertson suggested that consideration of the foregoing 
questions be deferred pending discussion by the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation, but Governor Maisel felt that as a matter 
°f principle the Board should reach at least a tentative position prior 
to the beginning of interagency consultation. 
In the ensuing discussion, 
members of the Board expressed an interest in having additional information 

. 3613 
10/7/68 
-6-
on which to base a decision, and Governor Robertson then proposed that 
the staff prepare a memorandum (1) setting forth the issues involved and 
(2) presenting draft regulations, with the understanding that in the 
process staff views of the other agencies would also be obtained. 
There was agreement with this suggestion regarding the procedure 
to be followed. 
Amendment to Regulation Q.. A memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated September 30, 1968, recommended that section 217.3(a) of Regulation 
Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, be amended for technical reasons to 
eliminate references to the statutory provisions relating to (1) the 
Board's authority to regulate the payment of interest on deposits and 
(2) the exemption from interest rate limitations of time deposits of 
foreign governments, foreign monetary and financial authorities, and 
certain multinational organizations. Public Law 90-505, dated September 21 
1968, had extended the former for a period of one year and the specific 
statutory exemption relating to the latter would expire on October 15, 
1968. 
More fundamentally, the proposed amendment also clarified the 
authority of member banks to pay any rate of interest on time deposits 
of certain foreign official institutions with maturities of not more 
than two years and modified the position adopted by the Board in November 
1962 with respect to the payment of interest on such.deposits transferred 
by exempt organizations to nonexempt holders. 

o O t C U 
10/7/68 
-7-
A member bank was presently prohibited from paying interest at 
a rate in excess of the maximum permitted by Regulation Q at the date 
of issue if a certificate of deposit issued to an exempt organization 
was transferred to a nonexempt holder at any time prior to maturity. 
As proposed, a member bank would be permitted to pay the contract rate 
on a certificate issued to an exempt organization throughout the time 
the certificate was held by such organization, even though the holder 
at maturity was not an exempt organization, if such certificate provided 
(1) that in the event of transfer the date of transfer, attested to in 
writing by the transferor, should appear on the certificate, and (2) 
that the maximum rate limitations of Regulation Q in effect at the date 
of issuance of the certificate applied to the certificate during such 
time as it was held by any person other than an exempt organization. 
While there was general agreement with the recommendation of 
the Legal Division, it was suggested that the proposed amendment be 
discussed with representatives of the Treasury and the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation prior to public announcement. Subject to that 
understanding, the amendment to Regulation Q was approved unanimously 
effective October 15, 1968. 
(Note: It having been ascertained that there was no objection 
on the part of the Treasury or the FDIC, the amendment was published in 
the Federal Register in the form attached as Item No. 5. A copy of the 
pertinent press release is attached as Item No. 6.) 

O O ^ l 
10/7/68 
-8-
Bank credit cards. A draft of testimony on bank credit cards 
to be presented by Governor Brimmer on October 9, 1968, before the Sub-
committee on Financial Institutions of the Senate Banking and Currency 
Committee had been distributed, along with a memorandum from Governor 
Brimmer dated October 4, 1968, commenting on the rationale underlying 
the positions taken in the testimony. 
Governor Brimmer noted that the Board had been asked to focus 
on (1) whether there should be a Federal law limiting customer liability 
under bank credit cards, and (2) whether the Federal Reserve should be 
given statutory authority to promulgate regulations with respect to 
customers' liability and other terms governing the issuance of bank 
credit cards. He suggested taking an affirmative position on the first 
question and a qualified negative position on the second. Although some 
legislation limiting customer liability in connection with the loss or 
misuse of credit cards appeared desirable, there did not appear to be a 
pressing need for additional legislation at this time with respect to 
other aspects of credit card operations. The basic question extended 
well beyond the regulation of bank credit cards and legislation should 
not be enacted without further study, which, he suggested, might be 
undertaken by the National Commission on Consumer Finance. 
Other members of the Board then commented on the draft testimony, 
particularly the portion thereof dealing with limitation of customer 
liability, it being suggested that such limitation not proceed to such 
a point that customers would be disposed to handle their credit cards 
irresponsibly. 

« J f 
10/7/68 
-9-
It was understood that the testimony would be edited in light 
of the comments made and that it would be presented in a final form 
satisfactory to Governor Brimmer. 
(Note: A copy of the statement as 
presented has been placed in the Board's files.) 
PEFCO. A memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 27, 
1968, dealt with the so-called PEFCO proposal for the establishment of 
a private export finance corporation for the purpose of mobilizing capital 
to finance the export of jet aircraft and possibly other heavy equipment. 
Approximately half of the capital of the corporation would be supplied 
by financial institutions, while the other half would be supplied by 
manufacturers and exporters. 
In a letter of September 25, 1968, the Treasury had indicated 
that on the basis of preliminary study it and other Government agencies 
favored the proposal in principle. The views of the Federal Reserve 
were requested on the appropriate form of organization for PEFCO in 
order to permit equity participation by banks. The study, known as the 
Dillon Read study, that generated the proposal had considered the possi-
bilities of organizing PEFCO as an Edge corporation, as an "agreement" 
corporation, or as a corporation of some other type. One possibility 
considered by the Treasury involved organization as a private domestic 
corporation, some of the shares of which would be owned by Edge corpo-
rations, either existing subsidiaries of commercial banks or new Edge 
corporations owned by individual banks or jointly owned. 

o * > 
o o ^ o 
10/7/68 
-10-
Th e proposed reply to the Treasury rejected the organization 
of PEFCO as an Edge corporation or as an "agreement" corporation, but 
expressed the opinion that under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act PEFCO stock could be acquired by domestic banks through existing or 
newly-formed Edge corporations. After commenting on some of the factors 
that would have to be borne in mind in considering applications to 
invest in the stock of PEFCO, the proposed reply concluded with an 
expression of support for the objectives of the PEFCO proposal. 
A memorandum from the Legal Division dated October 2, 1968, 
commented on a memorandum of September 23, 1968, in which the Acting 
Comptroller of the Currency had suggested three alternative methods 
through which national banks might acquire stock of the proposed corpo-
ration. The draft letter to the Treasury dealt with two of the suggested 
methods. The third suggestion was to extend (to cover PEFCO stock) a 
ruling of the Comptroller permitting national banks, as a business 
expense rather than an investment, to acquire stock in community develop-
ment corporations up to two per cent of their capital and surplus. The 
Legal Division observed that extension of that ruling to the foreign 
banking field would in substantial degree nullify the Board's regulatory 
authority under sections 25 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Accordingly, the Division recommended that a paragraph expressing opposi-
tion be added to the reply to the Treasury. 

10/7/68 
-11-
In discussion of the matter, Governor Brimmer expressed himself 
as concerned about the relationship of the PEFCO proposal to the foreign 
credit restraint program since PEFCO's credits apparently would be 
guaranteed by the Export-Import Bank, thus exempting them from the pur-
view of the restraint program. He suggested that some incentive be 
built into the PEFCO program to encourage maximum resort to foreign 
capital markets for financing exports of jet aircraft and that this 
concept be incorporated in the reply to the Treasury. 
After other Board members supported the position taken by 
Governor Brimmer, it was agreed that a paragraph along the lines suggested by 
him should be included in the letter to the Treasury. Several other 
changes in the draft also having been agreed upon, the sending of a 
letter in the form attached as Item No. 7 was approved unanimously. 
Requests for access to information. Mr. O'Connell referred to 
questions that had arisen in connection with pending criminal action 
involving officers of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, Egg Harbor City, 
New Jersey, a State member bank. Subpoenas had been served on the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and certain members of its examining 
staff requiring the appearance in court of such officers and the produc-
tion of specified documents, all relating to a line of credit extended by 
the member bank to Ariston Canning Company. Compliance with the sub-
poenas was recommended. 

10/7/68 
-12-
The recommendation was approved unanimously; a copy of the 
letter sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 8. 
In a related civil case, access to certain documents in the 
possession of the Reserve Bank was requested by the defendant, a ware-
house company, along with permission to discuss with Reserve Bank staff 
members various matters having to do with the aforementioned line of 
credit to the canning company. The Reserve Bank was opposed to granting 
the requests, and the Division of Supervision and Regulation agreed, 
r 
\i 
th; Ik^rd of Governor/^aar$ 
... wr. 
but Mr. O'Connell was inclined to feel that the requests should be 
granted. 
'<>•%. X • 
' i 
i I 
i 
. 
V 
i 
• * 
After discussion it was agreed that the documents in question 
should be made available only to the court, and only if subpoenaed, and 
i.ii Hi' l L 
."> 'i Z c --V 
.rfi-1: .; - 
; L .J, 1 
* 
' '". 
^ 
that the request for discussion with Reserve Bank staff should be denied. 
Car i ,• 
i 
Copies of the letters sent to the Reserve Bank in this connection are 
attached as Items 9 and 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Vi'i ry . •! a: it:, 
y 
/J 
retary 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
n 
Of* 
Item 
1 0 / 7 / 6 8 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 7, 1968, 
Marine Midland Overseas Corporation, 
140 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of August 9, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold 30 per cent of the capital stock 
of Eurocard International, S.A. ("EUROCARD"), Brussels, Belgium, 
at a cost of approximately $300,000, provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter0 
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition that 
EUROCARD terminate all activities, both direct and indirect, in 
the United States, except such as may arise under the interchange 
of bank charge-card privileges through an association with Inter-
bank Card Association,, 
This consent is also given with the same understanding 
regarding the financing of foreign credits and investments by 
your Corporation contained in the Board's letter of April 23, 19680 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P0 Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

OLCp v'', 
S A * • 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
.OOfw / 
Item No. 2 
10/7/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 7, 1968. 
Bank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of June 21, 1968, the Board 
of Governors has reviewed the conditions contained in its letter 
of March 8, 1965, granting consent for your Corporation to pur-
chase and hold up to 50 per cent of the shares of Banco Soler y 
Torra, Madrid, Spain (now Banco Commercial para America) and 50 
per cent of the shares of Banco Intercontinental Espanol ("BIE"), 
Madrid. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
of Governors suspends, until further notice, the provisions of 
subparagraph (1) of the third paragraph of its letter of March 8, 
1965, so far as they relate to aggregate equity investments by 
BIE not exceeding the equivalent of $200,000, and not exceeding 
50 per cent of the stock, in any one company not doing business 
in the United States. 
The Board considers that the above suspension is appli-
cable, retroactively, to the stock acquisitions made by BIE in 
April and May 1968, as reported by your Corporation on July 29, 
1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 3 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
1 0 / 7 / 6 8 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
r 
5 * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
t?: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 8, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System extends to December 5, 1968, the time within which 
Hammond Street Trust Company, Bangor, Maine, may accomplish 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. The Board also 
extends to December 5, 1968, the time within which The 
Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, Maine, may consummate a 
merger with Hammond Street Trust Company, Bangor, Maine. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 4 
B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
1 0 / 7 / 6 8 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEMs-2067 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 9, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has amended its rules concerning "Delegation by the 
Board of Governors of Certain Functions of a Nonstatutory and Nonregula-
tion Nature" so as to authorize Federal Reserve Banks to extend the time 
w*-thin which a proposed merger approved by the Board may be consummated. 
The amendment also broadens the area of consideration for 
P a 
eserve Banks in determining whether to grant extensions of time for 
either proposed holding company acquisitions or bank mergers. Under the 
amendment, such consideration is whether there has been no material change 
relevant to the proposed transaction. Thus, the amended language would 
delude not only a material change in the condition of the applicant, but 
also such matters as, for example, a material change in the condition of 
of the banks involved in the proposal, the approval by another Federal 
anking agency of an important bank merger in the area, or a significant 
lange in the economy of the area, such as the removal of a principal 
s°urce of employment. 
The amendment adopted by the Board would change paragraph (e)(1) 
the Board's rules (enclosure with the Board's letter of June 8, 1967, 
B-2020, f.R.L.S. § 9025.01) to read as follows: 
(1) To extend the time within which a bank holding 
company may acquire shares or a merger may be consummated 
in connection with an application approved by the Board, if 
no material change that is relevant to the proposal has occur-
red since its approval. 
Very truly yours, 
y
? 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

ou30 
Item No. 5 
10/7/68 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217 - PAYMENT OF INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Time Deposits of Foreign Monetary Authorities 
1. Effective October 15,-1968, § 217.3(a) is amended and 
§ 217.3(g) is added to read as follows: 
§ 217.3 Maximum rate of Interest on time and savings deposits. 
(a) Maximum rate prescribed from time to time. Except in 
accordance with the provisions of this part, no member bank shall pay 
interest on any time deposit or savings deposit in any manner, directly 
or indirectly, or by any method, practice, or device whatsoever. Except 
as provided in paragraph (g) of this section, no member bank shall pay 
Interest on any time deposit or savings deposit at a rate In excess of 
such applicable maximum rate as the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System shall prescribe from time to time; and any rate or rates 
which may be so prescribed by the Board will be set forth in supplements 
to this part, which will be issued In advance of the date upon which such 
rate or rates become effective. 
* * * 
(g) Time deposits of foreign monetary authorities,. The 
provisions of paragraph (a) of this section do not apply to the rate of 
Interest that may be paid by member banks on a time deposit, having a 

3G31 
-2-
maturity of not more than two years, made and owned by a foreign 
government, a monetary or financial authority of a foreign government 
when acting as 3uch, or an international financial institution of 
which the United States is a member. All certificates of deposit 
Issued by member banks to such organizations, on which the contract 
rate of interest exceeds the applicable maximum under § 217,6, shall 
provide (1) that, in the event of transfer, the date of transfer, 
attested to in writing by the transferor, shall appear on the certifi-
cate, and (2) that the maximum rate limitations of § 217,6 in effect 
at the date of issuance of the certificate apply to the certificate 
for any period during which it is held by a person other than such an 
organization. Upon presentment of such a certificate for payment, 
the bank may pay to the holder the contract rate of interest on the 
deposit for the time that the certificate was actually owned by such 
an organization, 
2« Section 217,127 is revoked. 
3a« The purposes of these amendments are: (1) to clarify 
the authority of member banks to pay any rate of interest on time 
deposits of foreign monetary authorities, with maturities of not more 
than two years, and (2) to modify an earlier position of the Board 
with respect to the payment of interest on such deposits where owner-
ship therein is transferred by the so-called "exempt" organization to 
a nonexempt holder. Formerly, a member bank was prohibited from pay-
ing interest at a rate exceeding the applicable maximum permissible 

3632 
-3-
rate under § 217.6 (the Supplement to Regulation Q) at the date of issue 
if the certificate of deposit issued to an exempt organization was 
transferred to a nonexempt holder at any time before maturity. Under 
the new § 217.3(g), the bank may pay the contract rate on a certifi-
cate issued to an exempt organization throughout the time it is held by 
such an organization even though the holder at maturity is not an exempt 
organization, if the bank and the exempt organization (or organizations) 
fulfill two conditions designed to establish proof of ownership of the 
exempt organization for the period of time the member bank proposes to 
pay interest at the contract rate. These conditions are: (1) the bank 
must include in the certificate provisions stating that (a) in the event 
of transfer, the dace of transfer, attested to in writing by the trans-
feror, shall appear on the certificate and (b) the provisions of § 217.3(a) 
of Federal Reserve Regulation Q apply to the certificate during any time 
that it is held by a holder other than a foreign government, a monetary 
or financial authority of a foreign government when acting as auch, or 
an international financial institution of which the United States is a 
member; and (2) the exempt organization must comply with the requirement 
relating to the notation of the date of transfer. Any certificate 
presented for payment without such evidence of transfer will be subject 
to the rules applicable to a certificate originally issued to a non-
exempt organization. Certificates issued before October 15, 1968, may 
be amended to include the provisions referred to in new section 217.3(g) 
and the issuing member bank may pay interest in accordance with sec-
tion 217.3(g) if, in the event of any transfer thereof, the exempt 

organization to which it was issued complies with the requirement relating 
to the notation of the date. 
b. The requirements of section 553(b), Title 5, United States 
Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effec-
tive date were not followed In connection with these amendments. In most 
respects, they are procedural in nature. To the extent that they involve 
a substantive change, the effect is to relax the restrictions of an 
earlier Interpretation in a manner that should encourage foreign monetary 
authorities to deposit funds in American commercial banks. In these 
circumstances, the Board has found that such requirements are unnecessary 
and contrary to the public interest. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 7th day of October, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 6 
1 0 / 7 / 6 8 
October 11, 1968 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued an amendment to its Regulation Q (Payment of Interest on 
Deposits), to be effective October 15, 1963, that: 
1. Clarifies the authority of member banks to pay any rate 
of interest on time deposits of foreign monetary authorities, with 
maturities of not more than two years. The amendment was made pur-
suant to the enactment of Public Law 90-505, which became effective 
September 21. The authority granted by the amendment parallels that 
formerly provided by a statute that expires October 15. 
2. Modifies an earlier position of the Board with respect 
to the payment of interest on such deposits that are transferred by 
such so-called "exempt" organizations to nonexempt holders. Formerly, 
a member bank was prohibited from paying interest at a rate exceed-
ing the applicable maximum rate permitted by Regulation Q at the 
date of issue if a certificate of deposit issued to an exempt 
organization had been transferred to a nonexempt holder at any time 
before maturity. Under the amendment, a member bank may now pay 
the contract rate on a certificate issued to an exempt organization 
throughout the time it is held by such an organization even though 
the holder at maturity is not an exempt organization if such certi-
ficate provides (1) that, in the event of transfer, the date of 

transfer, attested to in writing by the transferor, shall appear 
on the certificate, and (2) that the maximum rate limitations of 
Regulation Q in effect at the date of issuance of the certificate 
apply to the certificate during such time as it is held by any 
person other than an exempt organization. 
The Board believes the amendment will encourage, to a 
greater extent than before, foreign monetary autorities to deposit 
funds in American commercial banks, and thus be of assistance in 
combating the nation's balance of payments problem. 
A copy of the amendment, as submitted for publication in 
the Federal Register, is attached. 
. < i. 
, 
• 
. 
Attachment 

or* 
O O u t l 
B O A R D 
O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
10/7/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 9, 1968 
Mr. John C. Colman, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary, 
Department of the Treasury, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Colman: 
As indicated in your letter of September 25, 1968, a 
study conducted by Dillon, Read & Co. for the Jet Aircraft Export 
Financing Committee of the Bankers' Association For Foreign Trade 
proposed the formation of a so-called Private Export Finance 
Corporation ("PEFCO") to mobilize additional private capital to 
finance the export of jet aircraft and other capital goods. About 
one-half of PEFCO's capital stock would be offered to U. S. banks 
and other financial institutions and the other one-half to inter-
ested exporters and manufacturers; no one shareholder would own more 
than 10 per cent thereof. You state that antitrust implications of 
the proposal are being discussed with the Justice Department. 
Your letter asked for the Board's views on the appropriate 
form of organization for PEFCO in order to permit equity participation 
by banks and for such other comments as the Board might care to make. 
It is understood, of course, that the Board's views and comments must 
be of a general and tentative nature, since various important aspects 
of the proposal are as yet unresolved. 
The Dillon Read study rejects the Edge Act (section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act; 12 U.S.C. 611-631) as a vehicle for 
organizing PEFCO because of the statutory and regulatory limitations 
applicable to Edge Act corporations, particularly the statutory pro-
vision limiting debt outstanding in the form of bonds, debentures and 
promissory notes to ten times paid-in capital and surplus. The Board 
may not waive this statutory limitation. 
Although the Dillon Read study suggests the possible use of 
an "Agreement" corporation for this purpose, it does not appear that 
PEFCO will receive deposits. Under section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (12 U.S.C. 601) an Agreement corporation must be "principally 
engaged in international or foreign banking, . . .either directly or 

Mr. John C. Colman 
- 2 -
*'> ' * ' } fV 
o'O ti i 
through the agency, ownership, or control of local institutions in 
foreign countries. . . ." The authority in section 25 to invest in 
Agreement corporations "principally engaged in such phases of inter-
national or foreign financial operations as may be necessary to 
facilitate the export of goods, wares, or merchandise from the United 
States" is now obsolete, having expired by its terms on December 31, 
1920. in this statutory context, it is doubtful that PEFCO could be 
regarded as "engaged in banking" for the purpose of qualifying as an 
Agreement corporation under section 25. 
Under section 25(a), however, an Edge Act corporation may 
invest with Board consent in the stock of foreign or domestic corpora-
tions which are "not engaged in the general business of buying or 
selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the United States, 
and not transacting any business in the United States except such as 
*-n the judgment of the Board . . . may be incidental to its inter-
national or foreign business". Under this authority PEFCO stock could 
be acquired by domestic banks through existing or newly formed Edge 
Act corporations. 
In this connection, it may be noted that when a particular 
stock acquisition gives an Edge Act corporation effective control of 
another company, the Board has followed the practice of conditioning 
l t s consent upon compliance by the controlled subsidiary with the 
rules and regulations applicable to Edge Act corporations. This 
condition is necessary to prevent Edge Act corporations from doing 
through subsidiaries what they could not do directly. The same 
condition would normally seem appropriate where several Edge Act 
corporations acting in concert exercised effective control of a 
Particular company. 
Whether such effective control actually exists is a factual 
determination which cannot be made until PEFCO's organizational plans 
become more definite. To minimize this problem it would seem advisable 
to diffuse bank ownership of PEFCO among as many Edge Act corporations 
as practically feasible. This does not, however, rule out the possi-
bility of forming a new Edge Act corporation to acquire a minority 
interest in PEFCO, in order to permit participation by smaller banks 
which could not be expected to have their own Edge Act subsidiaries 
this purpose. 
Since Congress has authorized the Board under sections 25 
and 25(a) to regulate the international activities of national banks, 
and also in view of the Board's current responsibilities with respect 
t o financial institutions under the President's foreign credit 
restraint program, it is hoped that the foregoing will be helpful in 
forming PEFCO so as to permit equity participation by member banks in 
accordance with the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act. 

Mr. John C. Colman 
- 3 -
3G38 
Your attention is also directed to the fact that PEFCO 
would not have any ceiling under the voluntary foreign credit re-
straint program as presently administered. Of course, the assets 
of PEFCO would be exempt from the program, in its present form, as 
long as they consisted of loans guaranteed, or participated in, by 
the Export-Import Bank. 
The creation of PEFCO could seriously hinder our efforts 
to curb the outflow of U. S. capital. It is highly important, from 
a balance-of-payments standpoint, that we continue to try to secure 
from foreign sources as much of the financing of our jet aircraft 
as possible. Such financing could either be directly by the foreign 
airlines themselves, or if PEFCO is created, by stimulating maximum 
resort by PEFCO to foreign capital markets, including the Euro-dollar 
and Euro-bond markets. Some progress in this direction has been made 
this year and it is imperative to ensure that PEFCO will increase 
rather than diminish the role of foreign capital in financing foreign 
purchases of U. S. jets. 
The Board supports the objectives of this proposal and its 
staff is available to discuss this question in further detail with 
representatives of interested parties. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

Item No. 8 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
1 0 / 7 / 6 8 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 16, 1968 
Mr. James V. Vergari, Vice President 
and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Re: United States v. James Pappas, et alOJ DC NJ 
Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, Egg Harbor 
City, New Jersey 
Dear Mr. Vergari: 
This refers to the above criminal action to which your 
letters of April 21, 1967, January 3, 1968, and September 10, 
1968, were addressed, and to the several conversations had between 
you and Assistant U.S. Attorney Donald G. Targan relating to docu-
ments to which he wished access and Reserve Bank personnel whom he 
wished to testify during the forthcoming trial of this case. By 
letters of September 17 and 19, 1968, you enclosed copies of sub-
poenas issued on the application of the United States and served 
on the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia and Messrs. Joseph M. 
Case, J. Donald Murray, Donald J. McAneny, and William L. Ensor 
of your Bank's staff. The subpoenas require the appearance of the 
individuals named and the production by your Bank of specific docu-
ments in the possession of your Bank, all relating to the Ariston 
Canning Company line of credit carried by Egg Harbor Bank and Trust 
Company. 
We are advised that in conversations with Mr. Thomas J. 
O'Connell, the Board's Deputy General Counsel, you have designated 
those portions of Schedule A and Schedule B which were enclosures 
to your January 3, 1968 letter to Mr. Robert C. Holland, the Board's 
Secretary, which you and Assistant U.S. Attorney Targan agreed would 
satisfy the demands of the aforementioned subpoenas. Proceeding on 
the information given by you to Mr. O'Connell, specific items from 
Schedules A and B of the January 3 letter were presented to the 
Board as constituting those documents to which the United States 
requested access and intended to use in the forthcoming trial. 

Oti': 
Mr. James V. Vergari 
-2-
The Board has authorized production by your Bank of the following 
documents: 
Excerpts related to the matter of the Ariston Canning 
Company line of credit from reports of examination of 
the Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company as of the close 
of business November 23, 1962, August 2, 1963, June 16, 
1964, February 2, 1965, October 22, 1965, and June 16, 
1966. The excerpts from the 1963, 1964, and 1965 reports 
were previously furnished to Assistant U.S. Attorney Targan 
by Board authorization dated April 26, 1967. The authoriza-
tion herein granted contemplates the Government's use at 
trial only of the excerpts previously furnished and the 
excerpts from the November 23, 1962, and August 2, 1963 
reports of examination relating to the Ariston Canning 
Company matter, and which you and/or appropriate officials 
of your Bank are satisfied meet the requirements agreed to 
by Mr. Targan. 
The Board has further authorized your Bank to respond to 
the subpoena demands for copies of excerpts of correspondence ex-
changed between your Bank and officers and/or directors of Egg 
Harbor Bank and Trust Company at various dates from July 1963 through 
October 1966. These excerpts are restricted to the subject of the 
Ariston Canning Company line of credit, and are portions of the 
letters specifically identified in the Schedule A enclosure to your 
January 3, 1968 letter. 
The Board has further authorized your Bank to furnish to 
Mr. Targan for use at trial a copy of a November 19, 1965 letter 
from Vice President Campbell to President Mischlich, Egg Harbor 
Bank and Trust Company, together with Mr. Mischlich's letter of 
November 18, 1965, with its enclosure, and a copy of a letter dated 
December 19, 1966, to Vice President Campbell of your Bank from 
Vice President Dick of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company. The 
November 1965 letters and the December 19, 1966 letter were, re-
spectively, the eighth and seventeenth items set forth in the 
Schedule B enclosure to your January 3 letter.. 
The Board has authorized your furnishing to Assistant 
U.S. Attorney Targan the third, fourth, seventh, and tenth items 
in the Schedule B enclosure which are, respectively: 
Vice President Campbell's memo of August 16, 1965, re 
Ariston Canning Company line at Egg Harbor Bank and 
Trust Company, 

o o ' i l 
Mr. James V. Vergari 
-2-
Assistant Vice President Case's memo of September 10, 
1965, on telephone conversation with Richard S. Mischlich, 
President, Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, Egg Harbor 
City, New Jersey, on Friday, August 20, 1965, 
Examiner Donald J. McAneny's memo of November 12, 1965, to 
Vice President Campbell on Ariston Canning Company, Inc. 
accounts receivable loan at Egg Harbor Bank and Trust 
Company, and 
Assistant Vice President Case's memo of December 20, 1965, 
on a telephone conversation with President Mischlich of 
the Egg Harbor Bank and Trust -Company on Thursday, 
December 16, 1965. 
The foregoing authorizations have been made in response 
to duly issued subpoenas and, as earlier stated, with the understand-
ing that the authorizations are limited to the documents, or portions 
thereof, herein specified, in spite of the apparent broader demand 
contained in the subpoenas served on your Bank, on Mr. Case, and on the 
three examiners above named. 
The Board has also authorized the appearance of 
Messrs. Case, Murray, McAneny, and Ensor, pursuant to subpoenas 
dated September 13, 1968, issued on the application of the United 
States. It is understood that the documents, or portions thereof, 
that they may produce, and the testimony that they may give, are to 
be restricted to the Ariston Canning Company line of credit and the 
actions of Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company and its officers and/or 
directors in relation to that line of credit. Should any effort be 
made to extend demands for documents or testimony beyond the afore-
mentioned limits, you are requested to take whatever action in 
opposition to such efforts that may be appropriate under the 
circumstances. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
i 
Item tio. 9* 
10/7/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 16, 1968 
Mr. James V. Vergari, Vice President and 
General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Re: Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company v. 
Douglas-Guardian Warehouse Corporation, 
DC NJ Civil Action No. 1190-65 
Dear Mr. Vergari: 
Enclosed is a letter to you from the Board reflecting 
the Board's determination to deny to Mr. Charles L. Harp, Jr., 
Counsel for Douglas-Guardian Warehouse Corporation in the above 
action, an opportunity to interrogate Vice President Case and 
Examiners Murray, McAneny, and Ensor of your Bank. It is under-
stood that Mrc O'Connell advised you by telephone of the Board's 
action on October 11, 1968. 
This will also confirm Mr. O'Connell's further advice 
that the Board has directed that in the event Counsel for Douglas-
Guardian Warehouse Corporation effects issuance of subpoenas re-
quiring the presence of the four above-mentioned examiners at the 
trial of this case, and the production of examination report data 
and related documents from the files of your Bank, the individuals^ 
subpoenaed should respond by appearing in court and, with your advice 
and counsel, respectfully decline to testify, citing as authority 
for this action section 261.7 of the Board's Rules Regarding Avail-
ability of Information (12 CFR 261). Should the Court overrule the 
aforementioned objections to the giving of testimony and order the 
witnesses to testify, the Board has authorized the witnesses to 
respond to the court's order for testimony. Should examination 
report data, or correspondence or memoranda relating thereto, be 
made the subject of subpoenas, a procedure similar to that above 
described should be followed up to the point that the court orders 

Mr. James V. Vergari 
-2-
their production over your objection. As in the case of witnesses' 
testimony, should the court order production of the documents 
despite objections, the Board authorizes their production. As 
mentioned by Mr. O'Connell, in the latter event you might tender 
the documents to the court with a request for in camera inspection 
in the possibility that the court might not require production of 
the documents. 
Should you have any questions regarding the foregoing 
directions or the Board's denial action with respect to Mr. Harp's 
request, Mr. O'Connell will be available to discuss such matters 
with you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

3644 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
I T E N ^ 
1 Q 
D F ™E 
10/7/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 16, 1968 
Mr. James V. Vergari, Vice President and 
General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Re: Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company v. 
Douglas-Guardian Warehouse Corporation, 
DC NJ, Civil Action No. 1190-65 
Dear Mr. Vergari: 
This refers to the requests presented to your Bank by 
the law firm of Archer, Greiner, Hunter & Read, Camden, New 
Jersey, through Mr. Charles Lee Harp, Jr., of that firm, for an 
opportunity to discuss with Vice President Case and Examiners 
J. Donald Murray, Donald J. McAneny, and William L. Ensor, all of 
your Bank, the matter of examinations made of the Egg Harbor Bank 
and Trust Company at various dates in 1963, 1964, 1965, and 1966. 
In particular, Mr. Harp, whose firm represents defendant Douglas-
Guardian Warehouse Corporation in the above action, has requested 
permission to inquire of Messrs. Murray, McAneny, and Ensor regard-
ing their examinations of the Egg Harbor Bank and Trust Company, 
and of Mr. Case regarding one or more telephone conversations re-
ported to have been had with officers and/or directors of the Egg 
Harbor Bank. The proposed interviews would be restricted primarily 
to the matter of the line of credit extended by the Egg Harbor Bank 
to Ariston Canning Company, but would also encompass certain additional 
matters allegedly reported on by the examiners, which Mr. Harp asserts 
are related to the Ariston Canning Company line of credit. These 
additional matters were the subject of a meeting with Mr. Harp on 
June 5, 1968, and were more particularly identified in your letter 
to Mr. O'Connell of June 12, 1968. 
The Board has considered Mr. Harp's request, giving 
particular attention to the earlier supporting letter of May 3, 1968, 
from Mr. James Hunter, III, of the Archer firm. Having weighed 
Mr. Harp's request in the light of the reasoning underlying the 

«>,«'» If (• — 
Mr. James V. Vergari 
-2-
prohibitions against disclosure contained in the Board's published 
Rules Regarding Availability of Information, the Board has declined 
to grant Mr. Harp's request that he or his associates be permitted 
to interrogate the aforenamed examiners with regard to their 
knowledge of facts derived from examinations of Egg Harbor Bank 
and Trust Company, or conversations with officials of the Egg Harbor 
Bank conducted in the performance of regulatory or supervisory 
functions. 
It is requested that you convey to Mr. Harp the substance 
of the Board's determination as reflected in this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
i • 
' • 
> . 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
