MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 12, 1972 

2,1* or~ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 12, 1972. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tion of Bamerical Internationa] Financial Corporation, San Francisco, 
California, (1) to purchase shares of a new holding company to be 

2
-4 o<r* 
1 
9/12/72 
-2-
established in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, and (2) to continue to hold 
those shares after the latter issues certain debt obligations and 
acquires shares of a new finance company to be established in Tegucigalpa. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bankers 
International Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire control of 
Ord-BTCo. Ltd., Sydney, Australia, with certain modifications of the 
standard conditions for such investments. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Combanks 
Corporation, Winter Park, Florida, to acquire additional shares of 
the following Florida banks: South Seminole Bank, Fern Park; North 
°rlando Bank, Fairvilla; The Commercial Bank at Pine Castle, Pine 
Castle; and The Commercial Bank at Apopka, Apopka. It was understood 
fchat implementing documents would be drafted for the Board's consid-
eration. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Capital notes. Bankers Trust of Rockland County, Spring 
Valley, New York, and Bankers Trust of Jamestown, Jamestown, New 
Y°rk, both subsidiaries of Bankers Trust New York Corporation, had 
applied for permission to issue capital notes. In a memorandum of 
September 6, 19 72, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recom-
mended approval. 

2427 
9/12/72 
-3-
Governor Robertson expressed the view that although there 
seemed to be no difficulty with respect to the present applications, 
a study should be made of the implications of a holding company 
supplying funds to its subsidiary through the purchase of capital notes. 
He was concerned that if the holding company encountered repayment 
problems, it might have to retrieve the capital funds that had been 
injected into its subsidiaries. 
The ensuing discussion developed agreement that studies under 
Way by Mr. Chase would be broadened to include the problem suggested 
by Governor Robertson. 
The applications of the Bankers Trust subsidiaries were 
approved unanimously. Copies of the letters sent to the applicants 
are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
Report on competitive factors. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation had drafted a report to the Comptroller of the Currency 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of 
Granite, Granite Falls, North Carolina, into Wachovia Bank and Trust 
Company, N.A., Winston-Salem, North Carolina. The conclusion would 
state that the competitive effect would be adverse, whereas the Banking 
Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond considered 
that the effect would be substantially adverse. 

2428 
9/12/72 
-4-
After a discussion during which Governors Robertson and Sheehan 
expressed a preference for using the term "substantially adverse," the 
report was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller with the conclu-
sion reading as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Wachovia Bank and 
Trust Company, N.A., Winston-Salem, and Bank of Granite, Granite 
Falls, would eliminate some existing competition between them, 
while prospects for a significant increase in competition between 
them as a result of de novo branching appears somewhat limited. 
The proposed merger would expand the operations of the 
State's largest bank into two additional counties and increase 
slightly the already high degree of concentration of banking 
resources in North Carolina. The overall competitive effect of 
the proposal would be adverse. 
Valley Falls Insurance. In a memorandum of August 9, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial of the 
applications of Valley Falls Insurance, Inc., Valley Falls, Kansas, 
(1) for permission to retain its present controlling interest and 
acquire additional shares of Kendall State Bank, also of Valley Falls, 
and (2) for permission to continue to engage in general insurance 
activities. The principal issue in the case was the lack of an equal 
°ffer to all shareholders. The Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
had recommended approval of the applications, and in a memorandum of 
September 8 the Division set forth the rationale upon which the Reserve 
fiank considered that the offer made to minority shareholders was 
equitable. 

'2 ¥23 
9/12/72 
-5-
One comment in discussion at today's meeting suggested that 
it might not be appropriate for the Board to insist that arithmetically 
equal offers be made to all shareholders, since the minority share-
holders were said to be satisfied with the offer made to them. However, 
question was raised whether the willingness of those shareholders to 
accept the terms offered might reflect lack of knowledgeability. It 
was observed that special circumstances could make an offer equitable 
even though it was not arithmetically equal. The need to avoid struc-
turing the transaction was emphasized. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed to request 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City to develop additional infor-
mation to assist in evaluating the terms being offered to minority 
stockholders. 
Consumer Protection Agency bill. With a memorandum of Septem-
ber 7, 1972, Mr. Rippey submitted a proposed reply to a request by 
Chairman Ervin of the Senate Committee on Government Operations for 
the Board's comments on S. 1177, the Consumer Protection Agency bill. 
The draft letter reflected to a considerable extent the views that 
had been expressed in June 1971 in a letter to Senator Ribicoff regarding 
a bill on the same subject that was subsequently passed by the House. 
Discussion at today's meeting brought out that the Senate 
version of the bill gave somewhat broader authority to the new Agency 
than the House version. A number of suggestions were made, especially 

*<->4 ± 3 0 
9/12/72 
-6-
in the direction of specifying that the Board interpreted the bill as 
not requiring that the new Agency be given access to information relating 
to bank supervisory responsibilities and current monetary policy. It 
was agreed that Chairman Burns and Governor Robertson would work with 
the staff to revise the letter in the light of comments made, and 
the sending of a letter as thus revised was approved unanimously. A 
c°py of the letter in the form in which it was subsequently transmitted 
i s attached as Item No. 5. 
Regulation J. In a letter of September 1, 1972, the American 
Bankers Association expressed the view that insufficient study had 
been given to the adverse effects that banks might suffer, especially 
banks that were not members of the Federal Reserve System, if pending 
amendments to Regulation J, Collection of Checks and Other Items by 
Federal Reserve Banks, took effect on September 21, 1972, as scheduled. 
The Association suggested a review of such problems, with a postpone-
ment of implementation of the changes if necessary. Pursuant to 
discussions by the Board on September 7 and 8, a draft of reply to 
the Association had been prepared (but not yet delivered) that would 
indicate that the Federal Reserve would stand ready to provide direct 
credit to nonmember banks under the provisions of the last paragraph of 
Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. The Association had expressed 

2431 
9/12/72 
-7-
the view in informal conferences that such access to the discount 
window was not a completely satisfactory solution, but was acceptable. 
In a letter of September 7, 1972, the Conference of State 
Bank Supervisors also spoke of the prospect of adverse effects on 
nonmember banks, and requested a stay of one year in implementing 
the regulatory changes in those States where legislative action was 
required to achieve flexibility in reserve requirements. A draft 
response had been prepared similar to the reply proposed to be made 
to the ABA. 
At today's meeting Mr. Melnicoff said that a letter had also 
been received from Chairman Patman of the House Committee on Banking 
and Currency urging that the effective date of the regulatory changes 
delayed until the Board could reconsider the adverse effects they 
w°uld have on smaller banks and recommending that the Board consider 
holding a public hearing. Also, an editorial in the American Banker 
this morning had advocated delay and suggested that consideration be 
Srven to the economic and social contributions of banks that depended 
° n float in large part for their very existence. 
In addition to direct lending under the last paragraph of 
Section 13, Mr. Melnicoff continued, to which the Board had already 
agreed, the staff had considered two other possible ways to meet the 
Problems of nonmember banks, which now appeared to be the principal 

2
3 'jo 
4 t u w 
9/12/72 
-8-
objectors. One approach would be to use member banks as conduits 
to lend at the discount rate to nonmembers during the same phase-in 
Period that was being allowed for member banks. Through this means, 
nonmember banks might be given an amount of credit equivalent to the 
waivers of penalties for reserve deficiencies being granted to member 
banks. Another alternative would be to have the nonmember bank 
calculate its loss and apply to the Federal Reserve Bank for credit, 
which would be granted to the extent that the loss exceeded 2 per 
cent of the nonmember bank's demand deposits adjusted. The credit 
would take the form of additional waivers of penalties on reserve 
deficiencies for the nonmember bank's member correspondent, on condi-
tion that the member would relay the credit to the nonmember. 
Discussion included an expression of view that implementation 
o f the amendments to Regulations D and J was urgent. However, in view 
°f the several pleas for delay and claims of adverse effects, the 
board's public image would be improved, without sacrificing the objec-
tives of the regulatory changes, if a method could be devised to help 
Nonmember banks over a transition period. Whether the objectives of 
Regulation J were accomplished in the near future or a little later 
did not seem important. Nonmember banks considered that they were 
being hurt because they were not being offered the phase-in period 
Permitted members. It was also noted that much time had elapsed since 

2433 
9/12/72 
-9-
the amendments were proposed, and it would be unfortunate to delay 
their implementation, but it would seem wise to grant some relief 
to nonmember banks if possible, and to indicate that the Board was 
sensitive to the needs of small banks. 
Some members of the Board observed that nonmember banks had 
benefited for years from asymmetry vis-a-vis member banks. A sugges-
tion was made that any relief measure be tailored for small banks 
rather than for nonmembers. The possibility of a cut-off to limit 
the size of the bank for which special arrangements would be available 
was discussed, but decided in the negative. One member of the Board 
suggested that the conduit approach might reinforce the notion that 
the Federal Reserve was the friend of the big banks. 
A view was expressed that, once having taken the action, the 
Board should go forward with it, with ameliorating measures limited 
to the clearest circumstances, namely, that the discount window would 
b e open to nonmember banks to the extent necessary to relieve serious 
liquidity or earnings problems, or to avoid damage to communities 
because of reduced availability of funds. 
It was noted that if the amendments were not implemented as 
scheduled, complications would result for open market operations. Also, 
anY postponement would probably have to be for an extended period, perhaps 
months or a year, and there was a question whether the changes in 
reserve levels that the amendments would cause could be tolerated at 

2434 
9/12/72 
-10-
the end of that time. To some extent there might be a timing problem 
also in setting relief measures in place. It had taken the Reserve 
Banks several weeks to negotiate waivers of penalties for reserve 
deficiencies for member banks, and another several weeks might be 
necessary to make similar arrangements for nonmember banks. However, 
the credits could be made available retroactively. 
Inquiry was made whether it was really expected that a number 
°f small banks would have severe problems. After a response that 
there would be some problems, but the banks would not be put out of 
business, a question was raised whether the Board should give the 
appearance of having made a major concession if the facts did not 
indicate that it was needed. 
Comments on legal aspects of the several approaches indicated 
that there was no problem with direct lending to nonmember banks under 
the last paragraph of section 13, and the legal staff offered a 
rationale for defending the use of waivers of penalties for reserve 
deficiencies for member banks. However, some reservations were 
exPressed regarding waiver of penalties for member banks as a means 
assisting nonmember banks. 
Other comments brought out that access by nonmember banks to 
the discount window under the last paragraph of section 13 would not 
Provide meaningful relief, since Government securities were the only 

2
J Q 
too 
9/12/72 
-11-
acceptable collateral under that section and many of the banks needing 
help would have insufficient amounts of Governments in their portfolios. 
Therefore the need for more generous measures was emphasized. A view 
was expressed that for this specialized purpose nonmember banks should 
not be charged a penalty rate above the discount rate. 
Another theme of the discussion was the problem of member bank 
relations. Access to the discount window was an important prerogative 
°f member banks, and extending it to nonmember banks even temporarily 
could contribute to the erosion of membership. Member bank relations 
were of special importance to the Federal Reserve Banks. It was 
i&ijeed that a telephone conference with the Presidents of the Banks 
would be held to discuss the alternatives being considered, with special 
emphasis on conduit loans or waiver of penalties for member banks to be 
Passed on to nonmember banks, after which the letters to the two bankers 
§roups would be revised and a reply to Congressman Patman drafted as a 
basis for further discussion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

• 
«
-
A
? 
n 
'.AN?7-3 
•4 -r) o 
• t o o 
B D A R D 
n r 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20S51 
Item No. 1 
9/12/72 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C I A L 
C O H r t C S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
P U A R O 
September 12, 1972 
?J ' ^ r i c a 1 In t er n a t i onal 
financial Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
a n Francisco, California 
Gcntlemsn: 
94120 
As requested in your letters of July 27 and August" 7, 1972, 
H- Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, C'BTPC11) , 
w 
to purchase and hold all of the shares of a de novo holding 
c°»pany, (''HC"), to be established in Tegucigalpa, Honduras, at a 
Cf approximately $50,000, and (2.) to continue to hold the shares 
^G after (a) MC issues notes with maturities in excess of one year 
P to about $12 5,000, and (b) acquires 35 per cent of; tlic shares of 
^•^anclara Nr.cional, S.A, , ("tfiNSA") , at. a cost of approximately 
\ '->0005 provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
t a t e of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of HC by B1FC is granted subject: to the following condition: 
0 ) 
That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in HG if HC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organised 
under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board cf Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if HC establishes any 
branch or agency or takes -any action or undertakes 
any operation in Honduras or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which, at the time would not be permissible 
to BIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the 
the activities o. 
time; and 
>ca rd wi th sue!-! reports regarc 3 ng 
1IC as it mav require from time tc 

Barrierical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by HC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if HC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
^'spends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
delate to restrictions on loans granted by 1IC in Honduras in the 
currency of that country. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of FINSA by BIFC is granted subject to the same 
conditions as set forth in the second and third paragraphs of this 
better, substituting FINSA for I1C. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
fcarifc of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Pernorandum of Association, and By-Lavs of HC and FINSA. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that the 
lnvestment in iiC vi.il be made wi chin the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Sidelines as they apply to Bank of America National Trust and 
Swings Association and its affiliates, and that the acquisition of 
®*«ares of FINSA will be made with the resources of VIC and will not 
Evolve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2433 
•W 
•Miltb^r: 
^IRES^.' 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2C551 
Item No. 2 
9/12/72 
ADDRESS Of ''ICIAL C D R R C S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B E A R D 
September 12, 1972 
Bankers International Corporation 
16 Wall Street 
NeV7 York, New York 
1G015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of May 1, May 16, and 
•June 8, 1972, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Cor-
P°raticn, ("BIC"), to purchase and hold the remaining shares not 
hold by BIG of Ord-BTCo. Ltd. ("Ord-BT"), Sydney, Australia, with 
® branch office in Melbourne, at a cost of approximately A$534,000 
Vtthout $641,000), provided the shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of Ora~BT by BIC is grantea subject to the following 
c°nditions: 
(1) That BIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Ord-BT if Ord-BT at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a cor-
poration organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act, could with the consent of 
the Board of Governors purchase and hold stock, 
or if Ord-BT establishes any branch or agcncy 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Australia or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to BIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
BIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities cf Ord-BT as it may 
require fror. tirae to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
Ord-BT and shares held by Ord-BT at the tirae 
I SIC acquires control be reported under Sec-
tion 211.8(d) of. Regulation K in the same manner 

2439 
Bankers International Corporation 
-2-
as if Ord-BT were a corporation organized under 
Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That EIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Ord-BT at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts of 
Ord-BT, after giving effect to the elimination of 
all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
^sponds, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) , and {c) 
o f Regulation K. 
It 5s understood that the activities of. Ord-BT will include 
underwriting 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned 
upon vour obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued 
holding of shares of Ord-BT should Ord-BT acquire stock of individual 
issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent oi 
the voting shares of any cor.?any, except in the case of underwriting 
operations covered by firm commitments from subunderwnter s or otuci 
Purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in which Corpora-
tions ?>-c prohibited from investing by the provisions of the ei.gnth 
Paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board s 
oonsent is further conditioned on the fact that Ord-BT will acquire 
fiuch shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size and turn-
over of: inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and dis-
pose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
b e reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
to be reported as a separate class, together with the date oi 
^ U j . t i o n , on any Call Report oi Condition or similar report re-
vested by the Board. 
SIC also requested that Ord-BT be permitted to acquire 
stocks in connection with merger or acquisition operations and went 
to state that the more prevalent practice did not involve the 
of title, but it was noc uncommon in a particular case that 
l t Ray be necessarv to take title "as an intermediary- . *rom t m * 
other information furnished, the Board understands tnat such 
^quisitf.ns, which will be of short duration, will in essence be to 
account k other parties and not of Ord-BT ana, furthermore 
tha. 
operat{on will noc be at the risk of Ord-BT, even thougn its re-
Purees may b* utilized, since such utilization will create an at 

2440 
Bankers International Corporation 
-3-
least equal obligation to Ord-BT on the part of the real party at 
interest. 
The Board has concluded that acquisitions of stock coming 
Within the understandings in the immediately preceding paragraph are 
essentially fiduciary in character, and would be permissible for 
Ord-BT 'without regard to the limitations and requirements set forth 
Section 211.8(a) and (b) of Regulation K. However, in view o, the 
unusual character of these operations and because of their purported 
r * r U y in reoard co Ord-BT's general business, the Board will expect 
full details'in regard to them in any reports called for under con-
ditions (2) or (3) in the second paragraph of this letter. 
In response to BIC's further requests, the Board grants its 
c°nsent for BIC to continue to hold the stock of Ord-BT after Ord-Bl: 
(1) holds all of the stock of Pendal Nominees Pty. Limited 
and Ord-BT Nominees Pty. Limited subject to the con-
dition that the sole activity of each of these companies 
will be to act as nominee for Ord-BT and its subsidiaries, 
and c u s (: o m e r s t h e r e o f ; 
(2.) holds all of the stock of Denise Investments Fty. Limited, 
("Denise"). subject to the conditions set forth m the 
second through seventh paragraphs of this letter, sub-
stituting "Denise" for "Ord-BT"; 
(3) holds all of the stock of Ord-BT Finance Pty. Limited, 
subject to the conditions set forth in the second and 
third paragraphs of this letter, substituting 
Ora-bl 
Finance Fty. Limited" for "Ord-BT"; 
(4) holds 40 per cent of the stock of Share Australia 
Management Company Limited, ("SAMCL"), a company whose 
principal function is to provide investment management 
services in relationship to the Share Australia Fund, 
subject to the condition that S/HCL confines its 
activities to foreign and international banking and 
financial operations; and 
(5) directly or indirectly, issues obligation with 
rtaturities in excess of one year up to tne equivalent 
cf US$30,000.000, including any such cD.igations to Die,. 

Bankers International Corporation 
-4-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that, the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Sank of New York, with copies of ArtieLes of Association, Memorandum 
o f Association and By-Laws of Ord-BT and each of its subsidiaries. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to Bankers Trust Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2442 
F J D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
9/12/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
a d d r e s s arriciAL 
c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
I D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 12, 1972 
Soard of Directors 
Bankers Trust of Rockland County 
sPring Valley, New York 
10977 
Gentlcmen: 
Pursuant t:o section 217.1(f) (3) (i) of Regulation Q and 
Action 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $565,000 in 
Subordinated notes by Bankers Trust of Rockiand County, Spring 
New York, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
^auk of New York during the four-year period 1972-1975. 
In approv-
the issue, the Board does not in any manner imply that the 
atTi°unt of notes involved will be sufficient for your bank to main-
an adequate capital position for the four-year period, and 
approval is granted on condition that the capital notes cannot be 
for redemption prior to maturity without the approval of 
Federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2443 
Item No. 4 
9/12/72 
ADDRESS O r F I C I A L 
C Q H R F . S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 12, 1972 
Koard of Directors 
Bankers Trust of Jamestown 
beeves town, New York 
14 701. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation 0 and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $292,000 in 
subordinated notes by Bankers Trust of Jamestown, Jamestown, New 
in the form suhmilted to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
during the four-year period 1972-1975. In approving the 
issue, the Board does not in any manner imply that the amount of 
notes involved will be sufficient for your bank to maintain an 
^equate capital position for the four-year period, and approval 
granted on condition that the capital notes cannot be called 
redemption prior to maturity without the approval of the 
federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
•fe.coV;.. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2C551 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2444 
• S-.'S'^,* - 
is'. 
C H A I R M A N OF 
T H E B O A R D OF" 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
i t e n No. 5 
WASHINGTON, D. C. POST.i 
9/12/72 
[' rr 
' ! 11!1 
•, 'HL jit-j*. * 
September 21, 1972 
Tho Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr. 
rmaa 
c°tnralttr.ee on Government Operations 
United States Senate 
^shinoten, I). C. 
20510 
Kr. Chairman: 
Tho Board of Governors is pleased to respond to your request: 
o f A u ^ k t 12 for consents on S. 1177, Committee print dated August U , 
^72, the Consumer Protection Agency bill, which has been superseded 
b>" S. 39 70. 
Tn a leMer to Senator Ribicoff dated June 1, 1971, the Board 
R e n t e d nr, provisions in bills pending at thai, time chich would have 
,» 
-a0w A - v c y to obtain info-uatior from other recteral 
r
e
-
-
'
-
, 
'^pcjC'Laic-.allv, Sec. 206(a)(0) c£ the orij-./aJ ye-
or s/i'Vyv, 
y-oAw- 
tc the 
Sex:, 207(c) ol S ; 
Woul«.l have. ^thoviaed the director of the. Ager.cj to "request sue;* in-
^ a r i o n , eeta, and re.or':^ riom any Federal agency as the Director r.ay 
time'to time require and as may be produced consistent with other 
" In its comment, the Board said: 
...We anticipate that there would be little occasion 
<V-r the exercise of this authority with respect to 
matters under the Board's jurisdiction, particularly 
if Congress accepts our recommendation to trans rer 
the function of prescribing Truth in Lending regula-
tions. In any event, the provisions recognize that 
such requests are to be consistent with responsibilities 
vested by statute in the agencies to which the requests 
ar e ad dree r» ed. 
If Congress determines that the Administrator of the Consumer 
•^otGct-Joi A-eucv should have the broa'd powers contained m occ. zu/^cj 
successor to See.. 206(a)(3)), then the Board believes that its 
P0Glr.io. 
"fvpr.^sed to Senator Ribicoff last year remains applicable. 
'•Hie Hoard's letter to Senator Ribicoff suggested, and we believe it true 
THAT I V U CV. 
,•) F the Federal Reserve's activities lie outside tne pale or 
th0 
• , 
-'o -i.ifT-nv'tv 
Ue believe, for example, 
MV- tonsumer J?ror,eccion Agency 
S 
M U L K O I x. 
. 
».<- 
» 

2445 
Ths Honorable Sam J. Ervin, Jr. 
that bar.k supervisor information, such as that contained in reports 
examination of State, member banks, and unpublished information on 
Monetary policy, are clearly in this category. 
If there is doubt on 
subject, we believe it appropriate that this doubt be removed, 
since protection of the confidentiality of this information is essen-
tia] to the effective carrying out of the Board's responsibilities 
m 
these areas. 
W'th regard to Sec. 206 of S. 3970, the Board finds that 
this provision Is'substantially similar to language contained in 
_ 
H.R. ios}'55 which was passed by the House last year. 
In light of this, 
the Boa*-J has no comment to make on Sec. 206. However, since the 
^nlnistration has expressed support for H.R. 10335 as passed, it is 
Possible that the Office of Kanagement and Budget may have comments 
reEardins See. 2 06 which may prove helpful to you. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 
