Minutes for October 7, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 8 Adoption of Regulation X, Rules Governing 
Borrowers Who Obtain Securities Credit. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

2588 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 7, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Governor Brimmer called to the Board's attention a recent 
Paper by Mr. Tilford Gaines of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
which he regarded as part of a campaign organized by the Bankers 
Association for Foreign Trade to have the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program dropped. The Chairman suggested that the question 
°f the future of the VFCR program might be included on the agenda for 
the next FAC meeting. 
The discussion then turned to the designation of the next 
Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York. Chairman Burns said that he had been very favorably impressed 
w his conversation with Mr. Gilpatric and thought he would be willing 
i . m i t a 
... 
in. c.K.xut*\z 
w^us asjcectf nppxi'', 
accept the chairmanship and would do a very good job in that position. 
Some possibilities were discussed for filling the forthcoming vacancy on 
the New York Board but no decision was reached. 

2sm 
10/7/71 
-2-
The Chairman then reported on the developments in the program 
for Phase II of the President's New Economic Policy. In addition to the 
Pay Board and the Commission on Prices there would be a Committee on 
Interest and Dividends to administer a voluntary restraint program in 
this area, with Mr. Burns as Chairman. It was pointed out that this 
would take a considerable amount of the Chairman's time as well as 
some staff support, including the provision of a Secretary for the 
Committee. 
Consideration was then given to a draft of letter to the Presi-
dents of the Federal Reserve Banks regarding the questions raised by 
Representative Patman as to the appropriateness of certain expenditures 
made by the Banks. The letter was approved; a copy is attached under 
Item No. 1, together with a copy of Chairman Burns' letter to Mr. Patman. 
It was also agreed that this matter would be discussed at a meeting of 
the Presidents and the Board to be held just before or just after the 
next FOMC meeting. 
The problems encountered in scheduling Board consideration of 
the increasing volume of agenda items and the need for prompt considera-
tion of priority matters was the subject of informal discussion. Several 
suggestions were made. No change in present procedures was agreed upon, 
but it was agreed to keep the matter in mind if serious scheduling 
Problems continue. 

2580 
10/7/71 
-3-
The following persons then entered the room: 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff of the respective Divisions 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to purchase shares of a corporation to be formed under French law. 

2591 
10/7/71 
-4-
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
In a memorandum dated September 29, 1971, the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of an application by 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
to continue to hold all of the shares of National City Financial Trust 
Ltd., London, England, after proposed direct and indirect debt is 
incurred by the latter. 
During discussion certain questions were raised concerning the 
application, and therefore action was deferred pending further study 
by the staff. 
During discussion of the application of Commerce Bancshares, Inc., 
Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares of Blue Hills Bank of Commerce, 
Kansas City, Missouri, the staff was requested to explore certain questions. 
Action was therefore deferred. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Housing study. Pursuant to the understanding at the meeting 
on September 24, 1971, Governor Robertson had furnished the other 
members of the Board with a draft of letter to the Chairmen of the 
Congressional Banking Committees transmitting staff papers relating to 
the housing study. The letter would state that because of pressure of 
domestic and international problems the Board had not been able to review 
and analyze the documents, and it was unlikely that it would be in a 
Position to reach well-considered conclusions with respect to the ideas 
generated by the study until after the first of the year. 

2 5 9 2 
10/7/71 
- 5 -
Discussion indicated a general view that it would be well to 
avoid any time commitment and any implication that Board recommendations 
might be forthcoming on aspects of the study outside the areas of the 
Board's direct responsibilities. 
It was agreed that a new draft of letter, revised in the light 
of the discussion, would be furnished to the members of the Board and, 
unless further questions were raised, would be sent to the Chairmen of 
the two Banking Committees. 
• 
\ 
(Note: No objections were expressed regarding the revised draft. 
A copy of the letter sent to Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs Committee is attached as Item No. 3. The 
letter sent to Chairman Patman of the House Banking and Currency Commit-
tee was similar.) 
Central and State National Corporation. The Board authorized 
the issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval on September 28 
1971, of the application of Central and State National Corporation, 
Birmingham, Alabama, to become a bank holding company through acquisition 
of shares of Central Bank and Trust Company, Birmingham, Alabama, and 
State National Bank of Alabama, Decatur, Alabama. Copies of the documents 
are attached under Item No. 4, together with the dissenting statement of 
Governors Robertson, Maisel,and Brimmer. 
Change in District boundaries. In 1970 the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations submitted for Board consideration eight proposed 
Federal Reserve territorial transfers, which developed out of a 1969 study 

2593 
10/7/71 
-6-
by an ad hoc subcommittee of the Conference of First Vice Presidents and 
subsequent evaluation by the Federal Reserve Banks involved. After con-
sideration, the Board elected to take no action on the proposals at that 
time. 
In a memorandum dated September 28, 1971, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations indicated that the Federal Reserve Banks of 
St. Louis and Kansas City had expressed a current interest in one pro-
posal of the 1969 study--to transfer 24 counties in western Missouri 
from the St. Louis District to the Kansas City District. The Division 
believed that arguments favoring the transfer far outweighed those against 
it and recommended approval. 
The Board unanimously approved the transfer; a copy of the tele-
gram notifying the Federal Reserve Banks of St. Louis and Kansas City 
of this action is attached under Item No. 5, together with a copy of the 
press release subsequently issued by the Board. 
Reserve Bank audit function. Mr. Mcintosh had submitted, with 
a memorandum dated September 29, 1971, a proposed response to a letter 
of September 9 from Chairman Jones of the Board of Directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas regarding the audit function at that Bank. 
After a discussion during which changes in the tone and emphasis 
of the draft letter were suggested, it was understood that the letter would 
be sent after revision in the light of today's comments and further review 
by Chairman Burns. The letter was subsequently transmitted in the form 
attached as Item No. 6. 

10/7/71 
- 7 -
Interfinancial Corporation. The Board had been requested 
to rule that a proposed three-tier bank holding company transaction 
involving Franklin National Bank and Interfinancia1 Corporation, both 
of Minneapolis, Minnesota, was not subject to prior Board approval by 
virtue of section 3(a)(B) of the Bank Holding Company Act. That section 
exempts from the requirement of prior Board approval acquisitions of 
additional shares in a bank by a bank holding company that already owns 
or controls a majority of such shares prior to such acquisition. 
In memoranda dated October 4, 1971, the Legal Division and the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that the exemption be 
held inapplicable and that an application for approval of the transaction 
be required. Conflicting facts presented and important considerations 
bearing upon fairness to shareholder interests were cited in support of 
the recommendation. A draft letter to counsel for Interfinancial Corpo-
ration was attached to the Legal Division's memorandum. 
The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 7. 
Proposed exemption from anti-tying provisions. The Legal Division, 
in a memorandum dated September 3, 1971, stated that The Chase Manhattan 
Bank, National Association, New York, New York, had requested that the 
Board adopt certain exemptions from provisions of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act prohibiting tie-in transactions. The Division believed that 
- - . 'u:r.;~-at, un-V-ar :,ihiotv '.or-? J V hc^uliii 
I Jncjvi 
•• iox.-r* 
there was merit to parts of the proposal and recommended that the Board 

2 S S S 
10/7/71 
- 8 -
publish for comment a notice of proposed rule making based on those 
parts. A draft notice was attached. The New York Reserve Bank had 
opposed the exemptions suggested by Chase Manhattan. 
During discussion, the opinion was expressed that the proposed 
exemptions had broad implications and might be subject to varying inter-
pretation. Uncertainty was expressed with respect to the proposal and 
questions were raised regarding its applicability to trust services and 
well-established banking practices. Suggestion was made that it was 
necessary to develop a general philosophy. 
It was agreed that the staff would explore the questions raised 
and submit additional documentation. 
Margin regulations. Title III of the Foreign Bank Secrecy Act, 
to become effective November 1, 1971, for the first time made margin 
regulations applicable directly to United States borrowers (and foreign 
borrowers whom they control or who act for them). In July 1971 the 
Board published for comment proposed amendments to margin regulations G, 
T, and U to implement the new statute. Comments received prompted the 
staff to propose, in a memorandum dated September 27, 1971, that the 
changes relating to borrowers be combined in a new regulation, to be 
designated Regulation X. Parallel proposals to change the regulations 
as to foreign activities of lenders would be withdrawn and the present 
treatment, under which foreign branches and affiliates of broker-dealers 
are subject to Regulation T, while foreign branches and affiliates of 
banks are exempt from Regulation U or G except for restrictions on aiding 

2596 
10/7/71 
-9-
or abetting violations of the regulations, would be continued in effect. 
During discussion at the meeting on September 28, 1971, the 
Board requested additional documentation as to the changes relating to 
lenders, and staff had responded with several supplemental memoranda. 
In essence, proposed Regulation X provided that subject borrowers 
obtaining credit abroad must comply with the regulation applicable to the 
lender or, if none applied, must treat the borrowing as if subject to 
Regulation G. Exemptions would be provided for (a) individuals permanently 
resident abroad who obtain $5,000 or less in "purpose" credit at any 
one time or in any one year; (b) foreign subsidiaries of U.S. corporations 
making markets in Eurobonds; and (c) extraordinary circumstances where 
the Board might wish to grant individual exemptions, by order, if the 
obtaining of the credit was consonant with the purposes of the Act. 
After an initial discussion centering on the limitations the 
November 1 effective date of the statute placed on allowing time for 
public comment, Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the merits of 
the lender proposals relating to foreign offices of U.S. banks and broker-
dealers presented troublesome issues. He mentioned several policy objec-
tives that were inter-mingled in the proposals; basic to those objectives 
was the need to minimize destabilization of U.S. markets. It seemed to 
him that information was needed regarding the linkage of such foreign 
operations and flow of funds into and out of the U.S. 
Governors Daane and Maisel expressed themselves in favor of the 
staff recommendations, but Governor Brimmer took an adverse position. 

2597 
10/7/71 
-10-
He was sympathetic with the need to separate domestic and foreign business 
and with letting foreign offices of U.S. banks follow the practices of 
banks in their host countries, but he did not believe it was realistic, 
as the staff now proposed, to eliminate lender restrictions on foreign 
offices, putting the onus on the borrowers. He preferred the July 
proposals. 
Governor Robertson, expressing agreement with Governor Brimmer's 
view, said he did not think the implication of preferential treatment 
for banks was a desirable image for the Federal Reserve. If banks were 
granted an exemption, one should be given also to broker-dealers. He was 
not persuaded by the objections that had been raised to the July proposals 
However, as a solution in the light of the time pressure, he suggested 
that Regulation X, relating to borrowers, be adopted at the present time, 
and that after further deliberation the Board publish for comment either 
a deletion of the exemption for banks or a proposal to provide a similar 
exemption for broker-dealers. 
The continuing discussion developed general agreement with 
Governor Robertson's suggestion, although Governor Daane reiterated 
his view in favor of the staff recommendations. Support developed also 
for indicating that the Board was continuing to study the proposals regard 
ing foreign operations of U.S. banks and broker-dealers, without other 
commitment. 

2598 
10/7/71 
-11-
Regulation X, Rules Governing Borrowers Who Obtain Securities 
Credit, was then approved unanimously, effective November 1, 1971. 
Copies of the press release announcing this action and of the notice 
sent to the Federal Register are attached under Item No. 8. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No 
C H A I R M A N 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
10/7/71 
S-2175 
.1: 
• ( 
October 13,; 1971 
! ,;; 
.»i V 
• i 
As you know, last week Chairman Patman of the House 
Banking and C u r r e n c y Committee, raised a number of questions 
concerning the appropriateness of certain Federal R e s e r v e Bank 
expenditures. 
The items selected by Mr. Patman do not involve 
violations of statute. 
They are, however, concerned with p o l i c i e s 
and p r a c t i c e s among R e s e r v e Banks in the following areas: 
a) m e e t i n g s , c o n f e r e n c e s and miscellaneous; 
b) m e m b e r s h i p dues and contributions; 
c) 
e m p l o y e e relations; 
d) 
r e s e a r c h ; and 
e) 
bank relations. 
A s we all know, the general n o r m s being used by both 
private and public institutions with respect, to the appropriate-
ness of expenditures are undergoing change. 
The concept of 
p r o p e r expenditures for hiring, training, and other social 
p u r p o s e s has broadened considerably in recent years. 
On 
the other hand, expenditures which w e r e once considered 
purely b u s i n e s s - r e l a t e d and appropriate are being re-evaluated 
as the environment changes and as responsibilities and o b j e c -
tives a r e redefined. 
I want to be able to a s s u r e Mr. Patman that all Federal 
Reserve expenditures are consistent in every way with the 
public nature of the System and are n e c e s s a r y for the proper 

2600 
- 2 -
operation of the System in accordance with the provisions of 
the Federal R e s e r v e Act. 
We must be especially careful to 
assure that outlays are appropriate in today's environment 
and that the related benefits can be satisfactorily established 
without reservation. 
I have advised Chairman Patman that his questions 
would be thoroughly and constructively reviewed. 
Such a 
review is now under way, and in that connection I also plan 
to m e e t with you in the near future. 
Your cooperation and support on this important matter 
will be sincerely appreciated. 
Sincerely yours, 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF A L L FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
nu,. 
v 

2601 
f*A LR^V 
C H A I R M A N 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
October 13, 1971 
The Honorable Wright Patman 
Chairman 
House Banking and Currency Committee 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
To keep you abreast of the efforts we are 
making in pursuit of the expense questions which yoi 
raised at our recent hearing, I a m enclosing a copy 
of the letter which was just sent to the Presidents 
of the F e d e r a l R e s e r v e Banks on this subject. 
You can be assured that this matter is ^ 
receiving m y c l o s e personal attention. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. 
Burns 
Enclosure 

.'0F Cow • 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E : 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
2602 
Item No. 2 
10/7/71 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPDNDENUE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 8, 1971 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 6, 1971, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("CMOBC") to pur-
chase and hold up to 100 per cent of the shares of a corporation 
to be formed under French law ("FC"), at a cost of approximately 
$3,200,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of the shares of FC by CMOBC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FC if FC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in France or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FC were a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

26f>3 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by FC in France in 
the currency of that country. 
When the proposed acquisition is made, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of FC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National 
Association, and its subsidiaries, and that full consideration is 
being given to the priorities for U.S. export financing and for 
meeting the credit needs of developing countries. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

26 
/V>J5W5»«>. 
Of CCVje 
Item No. 3 
C H A I R M A N 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
10/7/71 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
'g 
October 21, 1971 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing 
and Urban Affairs 
U. S. Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Cha irman: 
Some time ago I assured you that the Federal Reserve 
would undertake a study of the housing problem, with a view to 
exploring means of moderating the difficulties of that industry 
stemming from changes in the cost and availability of mortgage 
credit. 
A great deal of work on this question has since been 
done by members of our staff and several outside consultants. 
Their studies, fou which they are individually responsible, encom-
pass a variety of proposals for lightening the impact of changes 
in credit conditions on the housing market. For example, they have 
analyzed the possible need for significant modifications in the 
character of the financial institutions that supply the bulk of 
residential mortgage credit, as well as the nature and operation 
of general economic stabilization policies. Twenty-odd papers have 
been prepared as part of this project, including an overall review 
paper by the project director that summarizes the various possible 
measures to moderate the'housing cycle which are examined in the 
more detailed studies. 
The Board itself has not yet been able to analyze these 
documents fully because of the pressing demands on its time 
stemming from other domestic and international issues, especially 
since the President's action on August 15, 1971. I am, however, 
submitting herewith the individual staff and consultant papers, 
with the thought that they may prove helpful to you at this stage 
in year own deliberations. 

2605 
The Honorable John J. Sparkman 
-2-
Since many of the ideas discussed involve agencies of 
Government other than the Federal Reserve, I am also submitting 
the same documents to the heads of those agencies, in order to 
give them the benefit of the arguments developed and to put 
them in a position to be of assistance to the Congress in deter-
mining which, if any, of the ideas are feasible and desirable. 
Meanwhile, Board members are continuing their own appraisal, and 
will be prepared—once you and your colleagues and the other 
Federal agencies involved have studied these materials—to be 
responsive to whatever inquiries the Congress might wish to pursue. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
Enclosures 

Item No. 20 
10/7/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL AND STATE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
ALABAMA, 
Birmingham, Alabama, 
approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f Central Bank and Trust Company, Birming-
ham, Alabama, and State National Bank of 
Alabama, Decatur, Alabama. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
I8Z>2(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central and State National 
Corporation of Alabama, Birmingham, Alabama, for the Board's prior 
aPproval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Central Bank and Trust Company, Birmingham, Alabama, and 
State National Bank of Alabama, Decatur, Alabama. 

2 6 0 ? 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller 
°f the Currency and to the Superintendent of Banks for the State 
o f Alabama and requested their views and recommendations. The 
Comptroller recommended approval; the Superintendent replied that 
his department did riot wish to express views or recommendations 
regarding the subject application, although it found no apparent 
violation of the banking laws of the State. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 11, 1971 (36 Federal Register 2881), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. In response to 
several requests, the Board permitted an Oral Presentation Order to be 
Polished in the Federal Register on April 10, 1971 (36 Federal 
^Sister 6923). All persons desiring to give testimony, present 
evidence or otherwise participate in the presentation held in 
Birmingham, Alabama, on May 13, 1971, were permitted to do so. A 
copy o f t h e application was forwarded to the United States Depart-
ment 0f justice for its consideration. Time for filing comments 
and views has expired and all those received, the entire record of 
fch 
e presentation, including the transcript, exhibits, exceptions, 
rulings, all briefs and memoranda filed in connection with the oral 
Presentation and this proposal have been considered by the Board. 

2608 
-3-
It is hereby ordered, On the basis of the record, that said 
application be and hereby is approved for the reasons set forth in 
the Board * s Statement of this date, provided that the action so approved 
shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day follow-
ing the date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the 
date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 7 , 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrillo 
Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

26o9 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CENTRAL AND STATE NATIONAL CORPORATION, 
BIRMINGHAM, AlABAMA 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Central and State National Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama 
has applied to the Board pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Hold-
Company Act of 1956 for prior approval of action to become a bank 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
v°ting shares of Central Bank and Trust Company 
("Central"), Birming-
h a mj Alabama and State National Bank of Alabama ("State National"), 
Decatur, Alabama. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. -
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
to the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Alabama and requested 
tllsir views and recommendations. The Comptroller recommended approval; 
Superintendent replied that, "this department does not wish to 
views or recommendations regarding the Central and State National 
C°rPoration of Alabama, a proposed bank holding company, as provided in 
letter of February 5, 1971, as there is no apparent violation of the 
banking i a w s Qf the State." 

2610 
Public Oral Presentation. - Notice of receipt of the 
aPplication was published in the Federal Register on February 11, 
l971 (36 Federal Register 2GG1), which provided an opportunity for 
interested persons to submit their comments and views with respect 
t o the proposed transaction. Thereafter, in accordance with Section 3 
the Act and after receipt of a significant number of objections 
and requests for a public hearing concerning the proposed transaction, 
Board acting at its discretion published in the Federal Register 
°n April 10, 1971, its Order for Public Oral Presentation (36 Federal 
Pve3ister G923) . All persons desiring to appear at or otherwise par-
ticipate in the Public Oral Presentation held in Birmingham, Alabama, 
May 13, 1971, were permitted to do so. Proponents and opponents of 
applicantfs 
proposal presented their views at the presentation held 
before the General Counsel of the Board of Governors. The entire 
tecord of the presentation including all materials submitted in con-
nection with the presentation and this proposal have been considered 
the Board. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
fcUat the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
a n y Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country may 
G substantially to lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly, 

2611 
-3-
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to 
take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
a n d the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction. - The ten 
largest banking organizations in the State of Alabama control total 
deposits of $2.41 billion, representing 48.0 per cent of the deposits 
h 
i/ 
e 
by all commercial banks in the State. 
Applicant 
proposes to acquire State National ($232 million 
deposits) and Central ($121 million deposits), the fourth and seventh 
*argest banking organizations in Alabama, Upon consummation of its 
Pr°posal, Applicant would control 7.0 per cent of commercial bank 
Posits in the State and become the State's second multi-bank holding 
Co^Pany and its third largest banking organization. The recent for-
mation of First Alabama Bancshares (1971 Federal Reserve BULLETIN 404) 
t o become the State's first multi-banlc holding company combined the 
^fth, sixth, and tenth largest banks in the State and created the 
S fcatp»' 
s second largest banking organization. 
1/ 
J 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970, unless otherwise 
Bo 
r^fl e c t holding company formations approved.by the 
through September 30, 1971. 

4 
2612 
State National has its main office in Decatur, the county 
Seat of Morgan County, Alabama. Under a "grandfather" provision of 
the Alabama banking law, it is the only bank in the State permitted 
to establish branches across county lines (it is permitted to branch 
into 14 counties). At the present time, it operates 29 offices in 
counties located in northern Alabama. It is the largest bank 
°perating in this 12 county region; in five counties it has less 
than 20 per cent of total deposits, and in four counties it has more 
Chan 40 per cent of total deposits. While each office has the capa-
bility of drawing on the resources of the bank for large loan demands, 
fche record establishes that each office operates with relative 
automony in so far as usual loans are concerned. 
Central Bank is located in Birmingham, the county seat of 
Jefferson County and the financial and industrial center of the 
State. xt is the fourth largest of 10 banking organizations in 
Birmingham and Jefferson County which approximates its relevant 
Market and controls 9 per cent of county deposits. Although Central 
has experienced extraordinary growth since its formation in 1964, a 
si8nificant proportion of its deposits reflect management's aggressive 
Solicitation of correspondent accounts and large denomination cer-
tificates of deposit from banks outside of its retail banking market. 
^ the present time, 23 per cent of Central's total deposits reflect 
c°rrespondent bank accounts, placing Central second in total corres-
p0l*dent balances in the State. 

2613 
-5-
In 1968, Central attempted to merge with State National, 
Although the proposal received agency approval, it was declared 
^permissible by the Alabama courts for reasons not germane to the 
Present application. At the time of the proposed merger individuals 
associated with Central acquired approximately 26 per cent of the 
outstanding stock of State National, The two banks have maintained 
a cooperative relationship since 1968, with the president of Central 
Serving as a special consultant and chairman of State National's 
executive committee. This application is the result of Central's 
continued efforts to formalize this relationship. 
The closest banking offices of Central and State National 
are located 40 miles apart in separate markets, therefore, no 
meaningful competition exists between these banks which would be 
eliminated by the proposed affiliation. It is doubtful that these 
banks would compete in the future absent termination of their present 
Management relationship and reduction of stock holdings in State 
National by interests associated with Central. In addition, State 
has not been an active competitor in the correspondent 
field with only 1.0 per cent of its deposits in correspondent 
balances (after deducting the balance carried by Central Bank). 
The Board has considered the effects on the banking 
structure of Alabama of its recent approval of the application of 
Pi*st Alabama Bancshares which was based upon the expectation that 

-6-
2614 
the formation "would enhance competition in several markets in 
Alabama." The Board concludes that consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal will not lessen existing or foreclose significant potential 
competition in any relevant market. Instead, consummation of the 
Proposal will enable Central to compete more effectively with the 
larger banking organizations in Birmingham and will permit Appli-
cant to become a meaningful competitor with other statewide bank 
holding companies emerging in Alabama. 
The three largest banking organizations in Birmingham 
control approximately 84 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
that market. Consummation of Applicant's proposal should establish 
a u additional alternative for customers for larger or specialized 
banking services in Birmingham. The competitive effect on smaller, 
Predominantly retail banks in Birmingham should not be significant 
<1 
n view of the existing size disparity between these banks and the 
larger banks in the market. 
State National, although the largest bank in its 12 county 
atea, operates primarily in small local markets and serves only one 
maJor metropolitan market in the State 
Huntsvilie. In 5 of the 
12 counties State National's share of county deposits is less than 
0 A 
Per cent. In the First Alabama determination, the Board noted 
"competitive capabilities" of State National as support for 
^Proving the competitive strength of First Alabama's, proposed 
Hu 
ntsvilie subsidiary which is the largest bank in Madison County. 

2615 
-7-
Affiliation with Central will enable State national to maximize its 
Resource strength and competitive capability in order to satisfy 
Showing financial requirements and further stimulate economic develop-
ment in the northern Alabama counties. The competitive position of 
smaller, primarily retail, banks in the State National's 12 county 
°perating area should not be significantly changed by formalizing 
the affiliation of Central and State National in a holding company 
°rganization in view of the existing overall dominant character of 
Sfcate National in relation to these smaller banks. 
In connection with the review of the proposal's effect on 
competition, the Board considered comments of the Department of 
Justice which concluded that consummation of Applicant's proposal 
^ill have an adverse effect on potential competition. The Department 
that Applicant's proposal would reduce the possibility for 
ev^ntual deconcentration in each market by removing both banks as 
Potential entrants into the market of the other. 
The Board recognizes that alternative methods of entry 
the respective markets are available to Central and State 
C l o n a l (and might be likely if the present relationship between the 
banks were to terminate). However, any possible adverse effects on 
pot*ntial competition resulting from consummation of Applicant's 
are, in the Board's view, not so significant as to outweigh 
th 
e P^ocompetitive result of reducing the existing competitive advantage 
Market domination of the State's largest banking organizations. The 

26±e 
-30-
&oard believes it to be in the economic interest of the State of 
Alabama to permit a combination of the resource potential of State 
National with the aggressive, innovative character of Central for the 
Purpose of improving the competitive environment among the State's 
largest banking institutions. At the same time, the opportunity for 
d e r a t e and smaller size banking institutions in the State to form 
re6ional affiliations which would encourage further deconcentration 
a t other levels of commercial bank competition will be preserved. 
On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the record, 
i,t is the Board !s judgment that consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance of any 
c°mbination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the business of 
dicing in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
applicant, a newly formed corporation, has no operating history. 
Si 
its assets, for the most part, will consist of its stock 
ucerest in Central and State National, and since Applicant's manage-
tnetlt will be drawn from both banks, the financial condition, manage-
tllent resources and prospects of Applicant are dependent in all respects 
° n those of the banks. 
The financial condition of both Central and State National 
are 
Generally satisfactory. Prospects of both banks and therefore 
^pPlicant appear favorable. Management of both banks (which has 
coordinated at the executive level since persons associated 
W i t h Central acquired a 26 per cent interest in State National) and 

261? 
-9-
Applicant are considered capable and experienced and in all respects 
satisfactory. The prospect of increased cooperation should have a 
beneficial effect on the operations of both banks. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to banking 
factors, as they relate to Applicant, State National and Central, 
are consistent with approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
B°th Central and State National are full service banks and there is 
n° evidence in the record to indicate that substantial banking needs 
are unserved. However, Applicant points to an increased competitive 
environment in all fields of banking, including offering improved 
fcrust services at Central as benefits occurring as a result of con-
summation. In addition, Applicant proposes other broad initiatives 
a s part of a ten point program to be undertaken or further developed. 
Proponents appearing at the oral presentation discussed 
a t least three of the components of Applicant's program in detail; 
Gstablishment of a venture capital loan department to encourage 
industrial development in the State of Alabama; creation of an 
aSriculture and timber department; formation of a foreign department 
t o serve those customers with international financial requirements, 
^though some of these services are presently provided by Central 
arid State National individually or by other statewide competitors located 
i n Birmingham, Huntsville, and Mobile, initiation or expansion of 

2618 
-10-
these services by Applicant would provide an additional alternative for 
existing services and a source for meeting increased demands for financial 
services brought about by economic development in the State. 
Applicant has indicated that Central will discontinue its 
absorption of exchange charges on items drawn on non par banks within 
90 days after approval of the subject proposal. The Board has on a 
"umber of occasions expressed its view that the practice of non par 
banking is contrary to the public interest. The beneficial consequence 
discontinuation of this practice, however, will occur throughout 
fch 
e entire State as a result of a recently enacted amendment to the 
State's banking law which prohibits the practice of non par payment 
o f checks as of July 1, 1972. 
Factors relating to the convenience and needs of the com-
Unities concerned weigh in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of factors set 
th 
the 
f°rth i n section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
Proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the 
application should be approved, 
°ctober 
7, 1971. 

2619 
Dissenting Statement of Governors Robertson, 
Maisel, and Brimmer 
We dissent from the action taken by the majority in this 
case. In our opinion, consummation of the proposal will have adverse 
effects on potential competition in the State of Alabama which are 
n°t outweighed by considerations of the convenience and needs of any 
community in the State. 
In the light of the effect of the recent formation of First 
Alabama Bancshares on the structure of banking in the State (which 
joined the fifth, sixth, and tenth largest banks in Alabama, 1971 
Federal Reserve Bulletin 404), the Board's action today authorizing 
the combination of the fourth and seventh largest banks in the State 
further concentrates the scarce financial resources of the State to an 
increasingly undesirable level. Approval of this proposal reduces the 
number of potential lead banks in the State with the probable result 
that most of Alabama's banking resources will eventually be controlled 
^ as few as five or six banking organizations. 
The Board has on previous occasions (e.g., 1968 Federal Reserve 
B uUetin 925) recognized that the primary objective of Congress in estab-
lishing the competitive standard to be applied in administering the Act 
l*as to prevent the concentration of banking resources in the hands of a 
few large banking organizations and to protect and encourage a framework 
,f°r a banking structure consisting of as many separate and competing 
banking organizations as can best serve the needs of the banking public. 
Board's approval of this transaction, in our judgment, frustrates 
th*t objective. 

2620 
-2-
As concerns State National, the resource strength of that bank 
and its exclusive branching privilege were recognized by the Board in 
tl*e First Alabama determination. As a result of the majority's action 
in this case, the dominance of State National will be further entrenched 
bV the addition of the fastest growing and most aggressive force in 
Birmingham market. The attempted competitive equalization sought 
by the Board in its action in the First Alabama application is destroyed 
by the effects of the action here. 
As concerns Central, the majority contends that the creation 
°f a larger organization to be headquartered in Birmingham will have 
Ptocompetitive effects throughout Jefferson County by reducing the size 
disparity among the larger banking organizations competing there. However, 
Antral Bank has proven itself to be an aggressive, innovative and 
Successful competitor in the State's most competitive banking area. It 
i s doubtful that this action will significantly enhance Central's proven 
competitive abilities. Neither would the latter be diminished by a denial. 
As concerns both banks, the Department of Justice has concluded 
tbat consummation of the proposal would eliminate potential competition 
by reducing the possibility that disaffiliation could result in eventual 
^concentration in each local market. We are in agreement with the 
apartment's conclusion. The existing relationship was established in 
1968 in furtherance of Central's unsuccessful attempt to merge with State 
National. This affiliation is neither strong nor irreversible and in no 
Way minimizes the anticompetitive consequences resulting from this 

-3-
2621 
Proposal, By foreclosing the possibility of future disaffiliation, 
moreover, the majority's action eliminates the more desirable alternative 
of each bank becoming the lead bank in competing statewide bank holding 
companies. Both State National and Central are among the few banks in 
the State of Alabama capable of supporting such organizations. 
Additionally, although only a small amount of retail banking 
and correspondent competition presently exists between Central and State 
National, a significant amount of potential competition in the State's 
wholesale banking market will be foreclosed by approval of this applica-
tion. Central has rapidly grown to its present position of second in 
the State in correspondent balance ($30 million) through the aggressive 
solicitation of such accounts. State National has the capability 
(although not presently utilized) of becoming a strong competitor for 
correspondent balances. Approval of the First Alabama formation removed 
First National Bank of Huntsville and Exchange Security of Birmingham 
a s competitors for correspondent balances in the northern Alabama area 
(for banks not wishing to have correspondent relations with a competitor); 
consummation of this proposal will further reduce the remaining corre-
spondent alternatives for smaller nonaffiliated banks in northern Alabama, , 
In our view, Applicant points to no significant new service 
other benefit to any area of the State that outweigh the adverse 
effects that this formation will have on competition. Additional pro-
grams to be instituted by Applicant are presently available either from 
each bank independently or from other banking organizations in the State. 

2622 
-4-
As the Board observed in its consideration of the Charter New York 
application (1968 Federal Reserve Bulletin 925) , "there is no evidence 
fchat such a broadened and improved service offering could not be accom-
plished by means less inimical to the preservation of future competition." 
On all the facts of record, we conclude that the proposed 
formation will lessen potential competition without offsetting public 
benefit, and that the application should be denied. 
°otober 7, 1971. 

T E L E G R A M 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
Item No. 37 
10/7/71 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
October 8, 1971 
Clay - Kansas City 
Francis - St. Louis 
The Board has approved the transfer of 24 counties in Western Missouri 
from the St. Louis District to the Kansas City District. This is the 
transfer studied by the Subcommittee on Federal Reserve Boundary Lines 
and the counties involved are: 
Benton 
Caldwell 
Carroll 
Cedar 
Chariton 
Cooper 
Daviess 
Grundy 
Harrison 
Henry 
Hickory 
Howard 
Johnson 
Lafayette 
Linn 
Livingston 
Mercer 
Morgan 
Pettis 
Putnam 
Ray 
St. Clair 
Saline 
Sullivan 
The effective date of the transfer is to be mutually agreed upon by your 
districts and upon advice from you as to this date, the Board would propose 
a joint press release. With regard to the press release, if it appears 
that the effective date will not be until later in the year or early next 
year, would you want the Board to consider an informative press release 
at this time with the effective date to be announced later? 

For use in afternoon papers 
October 26, 1971 
Wednesday, October 27, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today its approval of the transfer of 24 counties in 
Western Missouri from the St. Louis Federal Reserve District to the 
Kansas City District„ Ar. effective date for the transfer will be 
fixed by the two Reserve Banks. 
This will be the first change in Federal Reserve district 
boundaries since April 15, 1926, when two counties in New Mexico were 
transferred from the Dallas District to the Kansas City District. 
The Western Missouri area affected by the transfer is 
economically aligned with metropolitan Kansas City. Ihe transfer 
would result in shorter distances for check and cash delivery routes. 
Banks in the 24-county area are located from 25 to 140 miles from 
Kansas City compared to 165 to 290 miles from St. Louis. 
Counties affected by the transfer are Benton, Caldwell, 
Carroll, Cedar, Chariton, Cooper, Daviess, Grundy, Harrison, Henry, 
Hickory, Howard, Johnson, Lafayette, Linn, Livingston, Mercer, Morgan, 
Pettis, Putnam, Ray, St. Clair, Saline and Sullivan. 

C H A I R M A N 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 7 
10/7/71 
'.f'tALRt^V 
October 14, 1971 
Mr. Charles F. Jones, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Eank of Dallas 
Station K 
Dallas, Texas 75222 
Dear Mr. Jones: 
Thank you for your letter of September 9 which 
contains several comments with respect to the Audit 
function at the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
The Board endorses your intent to improve the 
educational and technical qualifications of the Auditing 
staff, as it believes strongly that the Reserve Banks must 
have a vigorous and independent Audit staff of superior 
quality. As early as 1942, the Conference of Chairmen 
recorded their position, which expressed the need to 
separate the Audit activity from the operating functions 
of the Bank; and since then, the Board has looked to the 
Reserve Bank Directors to assure that the Audit function 
has the proper leadership and manpower and that appropriate 
programs and procedures are being maintained. 
The views expressed by your Directors on management 
audit activities may not be at significant odds with develop-
ments at Reserve Banks. While any overemphasis in this area 
to the detriment of financial audits would certainly be un-
fortunate, the Board feels that some shift towards expanded 
procedural audits would be desirable and in line with develop-
ments at other Federal Reserve Banks. The Board does not 
believe the basic responsibility of Reserve Bank management 
will be undermined by a properly conducted review of procedural 
technique by the Auditing staff. A greater measure of safety 
will be afforded since procedural audits assure that the Bank's 
operating procedures and internal controls are such as to 
provide continued safeguards of all the transactions and 
assets, whereas financial audits provide management with the 
assurance that the books are in balance, and all valuables are 
present as at a specific date. 

2626 
Mr. Charles F. Jones 
-2-
While the Board believes, as you do, that the new 
General Auditor should be provided with ample opportunity to 
prove himself in his position, it does not feel that it would 
be desirable to stipulate a specific time period for this 
purpose. The Board's Field Staff will continue to review 
the Audit function, including the performance of its manage-
ment; as part of its annual examination, and you can rest 
assured that such reviews will be performed in accordance 
with the highest of professional standards and that you will 
be promptly advised of the findings, 
• : 11 
ill".. ' • 
The Board regrets any difficulties encountered by 
the Directors or President Coldwell emanating from an apparent 
lapse in communications at the conclusion of the recent exam-
ination of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, and instructions 
have been issued to the Field Staff which should avoid a recur-
rence of such instances. 
As you requested, the Field Staff would be pleased 
to communicate directly in writing to the Bank President and 
you regarding any dissatisfaction with the Audit Department's 
performance or personnel. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D , 
C. 
20551 
O P O ^ J 
rCtjffC i 
Item No. 7 
10/7/71 
ADDRESS arMCIAL CDRRCGPUKOEN2E 
TD THE BOARD 
October 7, 1971 
Robert L. Henretta, Esq. 
Henretta, Muirhead & McGinty, Ltd. 
2100 First National Bank Building 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 
Dear Mr. Henretta: 
This is in reply to your request for a determination that the 
exemption in section 3(a)(B) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
applies to a transaction which you describe. You represent that the 
effect of the transaction is to convert Interfinancial Corporation s 
present indirect interest in Franklin National Bank of Minneapolis to 
a direct interest. As an incident to such conversion, a new subsidiary 
holding company would be created and liquidated and a leasing company 
would also temporarily become a holding company. 
The exemption in section 3(a) (B), of course, only applies to 
the acquisition of additional shares in a bank by a holding company 
which already owns or controls a majority of the shares and, therefore, 
would be inapplicable to a situation such as you describe where no 
additional shares are to be acquired. Additionally, the Board feels 
that the instant case presents it with serious factual inconsistencies 
and questions, about which it has no direct knowledge, as to the equity 
of the proposed transactions to stockholders and bondholders. 
The Board is of the view, therefore, that an application pur-
suant to section 3(a)(1) of the Act would be required in this case. 
Such application should be filed on Form F.R. Y-l with the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
cc: Mr. Lester G. Gable, Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 

'-tMC^J:-' • 
Item No. 8 
10/7/71 
October 7, 1971 
For immediate release 
(r) 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
issued a new regulation to implement legislation that requires borrowers 
to comply with margin regulations in securities transactions. The regu-
lation is effective November 1. 
The new regulation is entitled "Rules Governing Borrowers Who 
Obtain Securities Credit" and is designated Regulation X. It will carry 
£ 
TTT nf the Foreign Bank Secrecy Act (Public Law 
out provisions of Title III ot tne foreign 
91-508 enacted October 26, 1970) that relate to margin credit require-
ments. That Act for the first time specifically requires borrowers to 
comply with margin regulations in securities transactions. The regu-
lations previously applied primarily to lenders. 
Establishment of a separate regulation differs in form from 
the proposal issued on July 26 which would have amended the three exist-
ing margin regulations to cover borrowers. 
Margin regulations are designed to prevent the excessive use 
of credit in financing securities transactions. Regulation T applies 
to all securities credit extended by brokers and dealers; Regulation U 
applies to credit by banks for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
margin stocks, while Regulation G applies to such credit by persons 
other than banks, brokers, or dealers. 
As in the July proposal, the new regulation will require 
persons borrowing in the United States to comply with the margin regu-
lation applicable to the lender extending him credit on securities. If 

2629 
-
a U.S. person borrows abroad, he must comply with the provisions of 
the margin regulation that would apply if the credit were obtained in 
the United States . 
The regulation will apply to credit extended, arranged or 
maintained after October 31. Commencing May 1, 1972, six months after 
the effective date, restrictions on substitutions and withdrawals from 
margin accounts will apply to credit extended after October 26, 1970, 
the date the legislation became law. 
The new Regulation X will exempt the following from its 
provisions: 
1. U. S. citizens permanently residing outside the United 
States who obtain or have outstanding abroad no more than $5,000 in 
purpose credit per year. 
2. Credit obtained by foreign affiliates of U. S. firms to 
finance clearing, market-making or arbitrage transactions in offshore 
debt securities that arc convertible into margin securities. 
J ' ' ' 
I; . 
, 
j 
3. Foreign borrowers who are controlled by or acting on 
behalf of tJ. S. persons, provided the Board determines that an exemption 
is warranted by exceptional circumstances and is consistent: with the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Regulation X. 
Under the new regulation, certain borrowers who obtain secu-
rities credit abroad must retain in their records for six years a state-
went describing the transaction. 
The Board still has under consideration certain aspects of the 
,* -3 e i o' * 2 • •; » 
i 
' 
j 
i • • j i j 
proposals issued on July 26, particularly those relating to the appli-
J 
' « Li'?' 
\b >?r; i .ur ... 1 } 
>: - ,J 
i" 
••• 
cation of margin regulations to foreign branches of U. S. banks and U. S. 
broker-dealers. A copy of Regulation X is attached. 

2630 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. X] 
PART 224--RULES GOVERNING BORROWERS WHO OBTAIN SECURITIES CREDIT 
1. For the purpose of implementing the provisions of Title III 
°f the Financial Recordkeeping and Currency and Foreign Transactions 
Reporting Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-508, October 26, 1970), which added 
a new subsection (f) to section 7 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
(15 U.S.C. 78a-jj, as amended), the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System adopts, effective November 1, 1971, a new Part 224 (Regu-
lation X) as set forth below. 
2. The new Part 224 (Regulation X) provides as to a borrower 
that any credit he obtains in the United States must comply with the 
Margin regulations applicable to his lender, and that if he borrows 
abroadj his credit must comply with the provisions of the margin regu-
lation that would have been applicable if the credit had been obtained 
I n the United States. This new part incorporates the substance of 
eertain proposed amendments to Parts 207, 220, and 221 (Regulations G, 
T> and U) which were initially published in the FEDERAL REGISTER on 
July 29, 1971, at pages 14030, 14033, and 14035. Other aspects of 
those proposals are still under consideration by the Board. 
3. The new Part 224 (Regulation X) revises the substance of 
t1lle amendments as initially published, in the manner set forth below. 
4. Section 224.3 exempts from the application of subsection (f) 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Part 224 (Regulation X) 

- 
2 
-
2631 
(a) United States citizens permanently residing outside the United 
States who obtain abroad not in excess of $5,000 in purpose credit 
per year or at any one time, (b) credit to foreign firms who may be 
controlled by or acting on behalf of or in conjunction with United 
States persons to carry out clearing, market-making, and arbitrage 
transactions in offshore debt securities that are convertible into 
margin securities and (c) foreign borrowers who are not United 
States persons but are controlled by or acting on behalf of or in 
conjunction with United States persons if the Board grants a specific 
exemption after a finding that such an exemption is consonant with the 
purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the new Part 224 
(Regulation X) and is warranted by exceptional circumstances. 
5. Section 2.2.4.4 provides that certain borrowers obtaining 
credit abroad must prepare and retain a record in conformity with 
Federal Reserve Form X-l for a period of six years after the credit 
is extinguished. 
i j , 
6. Section 224.5(a) limits the term "acting on behalf of or 
in conjunction with" to relationships in which a United States person 
or a foreign person controlled by a United States person has a sub-
stantial beneficial interest other than an interest derived solely 
N.i-vv 
from ownership of less than 50 per cent of stock. 
7. Section 224.5(d) defines "foreign lender" as a non-
United States person who is not a foreign branch of a broker/dealer, 
bank, or G-lender, nor a foreign subsidiary of a broker/dealer, and 
who in the ordinary course of his business extends, maintains, or 
arranges purpose credit outside the United States. 

2 6 3 ^ 
- 3 -
8. Section 224.5(e) defines "G-lender" as a person not a 
broker/dealer or a bank who in the ordinary course of his business 
extends, maintains, or arranges credit secured directly or indirectly 
by any margin securities and who is subject to the registration require-
ment of § 207.1(a) of Part 207 (Regulation G). 
9. Section 224.5(f) clarifies that the term "indirectly 
secured" includes any arrangement under which collateral made available 
by a third person secured credit obtained by a borrower. 
10. Section 224.5(g) defines "lender" as a person who in 
the ordinary course of his business extends, maintains, or arranges 
for credit, including a G-lender, a broker/dealer, a bank, and a 
foreign lender. 
11. Section 224.5(b) provides that the term "margin security" 
will have the meaning of "margin security" in § 207.2(d) of Part 207 
(Regulation G) if the borrower is obtaining credit from a G-lender or 
a foreign lender, the meaning of "margin security" in § 220.2(f) of 
Part 220 (Regulation T) if the borrower is obtaining credit from a 
broker/dealer and the meaning of "margin stock" in § 221.3(v) of 
Part 221 (Regulation U) if the borrower is obtaining credit from a 
bank. 
12. Section 224.5(i) defines "offshore debt security" as a 
debt security offered only outside the United States, the purchase of 
Which, by a United States person, would give rise to a liability under 
the Interest Equalization Tax (26 U.S.C. section 4911 et, seq.). 

263 
- 4 -
13 
Section 224.5 (i) defines "purpose credit" as credit for 
- * 
the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities and lists four examples 
of purpose credit, one of which includes a presumption that credit 
secured by any securities is purpose credit unless the borrower has 
filed the requisite statement of the purpose of the credit under 
Part 207 (Regulation G), Part 220 (Regulation T), or Part 221 (Regu-
lation U) or can furnish satisfactory proof to the contrary if the 
credit is obtained from a foreign lender. 
14. Section 224.5(k) explains that the term "obtain credit" 
means to obtain, receive, or enjoy the beneficial use of credit. 
15. Section 224.5(1) provides that the term "United States" 
includes any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, 
Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone, the Virgin Islands, or any other possession 
of the United States. 
16. Section 224.6(a) provides that a borrower's innocent 
mistake in connection with obtaining credit shall not be deemed a vio-
lation, if prompt action is taken to correct the mistake. 
17. Section 224.6(b) clarifies that any person who wilfully 
aids and abets any other person in a violation of the new Part 224 (Regu-
lation X) is also a violator of such part. 
Effective date: November 1, 1971. The effective date was not deferred 
for the usual 30 day period because the new Part 224 (Regulation X) 
implements an amendment to the Securities Exchange Act of 1.934 which 
takes effect, by its terms, on November 1, 1971. The substance of the 

2634 
- 5 -
new part has been published for comment, and comments received from 
persons who would be affected by the new rules have been taken into 
account in connection with the revisions described above. 
In these 
circumstances, the Board found that it would be in the public interest 
if the new part became effective simultaneously with the amendment to 
the Act. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 7, 1971. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
[SEAL] 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary. 

- 6 -
263 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
r * • i ,, 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. X] 
PART 224--RULES GOVERNING BORROWERS WHO OBTAIN SECURITIES CREDIT 
Sec. 
224. 1 Scope of Part. 
224. 2 General Rule. 
224. 3 Exemptions 
224. 4 Reports and Records. 
224. 5 Definitions. 
224, 6 Miscellaneous Provisions. 
Authority: The provisions of this Part 224 (Regulation X), issued 
under section 7(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended 
(15 U.S.C. 78a-jj, particularly 78g(f)). 

- 7 -
: 
v 
'1} • 
I i { 
I'. < . * 
SECTION 224.1--SC0PE OF PART 
Part 224 (Regulation X) contains Rules and Regulations pro-
mulgated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
("the Board") under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended 
("the Act") and applies to all persons described below who obtain, 
receive, or enjoy the beneficial use of credit for the purpose of 
purchasing or carrying securities.!/ For definitions of technical 
terms see section 
224.5, Parts 207, 220, and 221 (Margin Regulations G, 
T, and U) and the Statutory Appendix, The purpose of this part 
(Regulation X) is to prevent the infusion of unregulated credit 
obtained both outside and within the United States into United States 
securities markets in circumvention of the provisions of the Board's 
margin regulations or by borrowers falsely certifying the purpose of 
a loan or otherwise wilfully and intentionally evading the provisions 
of those regulations. When the term "obtain credit" is used in this 
part (Regulation X) it means "obtain, receive, or enjoy the beneficial 
use of credit" and when the term "purpose credit" is used, it means 
"credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying securities". When 
the term "borrower" is used, it means a person who obtains credit. 
This part (Regulation X) implements section 7(f) of the Act, and 
generally applies to borrowers who are: 
1/ 15 U.S.C. 78g. 

2637 
- 3 -
(a) Persons who obtain credit from within the United 
States, or 
(b) Those persons who obtain credit from outside the 
United States who are: 
2 / 
(1) United States persons,—' 
(2) Foreign persons who are controlled by 
o/ 
United States p e r s o n s , o r 
(3) Foreign persons acting on behalf of or in 
conjunction wi tiA/ United States persons. 
V' V 
* ' ' . 
'. 1 
SECTION 224.2--GENERAL RULE 
(a) Credit obtained from within the United States. - A 
borrower shall not obtain any purpose credit from within the United 
States unless he does so in compliance with the following conditions: 
••(... 
- . ,»•« ?• i q:i i' 
221 i ' 
>vt 
(1) Credit obtained from a G-lender shall conform to the. 
Provisions of Part 207 (Regulation G), which is hereby incorporated 
in this part (Regulation X). When the term "G-lender" is used in 
\ - 
f , 
. 
\ 
V 
this part (Regulation X), it: means a person who is not a broker/ 
dealer or bank, who in the ordinary course of his business extends, 
2/ For definition of the term "United States person," see Statutory 
Appendix, section 7(f)(2)(A). 
. f 
, 
3/ For definition of the term "foreign persons controlled by a United 
States person," see Statutory Appendix, section 7(f)(2)(C). 
ij For definition of the term "acting on behalf of or in conjunction 
with," see section 224.5(a) of this part (Regulation X). 

2638 
- 9 -
maintains, or arranges credit that is secured, directly or indirectly, 
in whole or in part, by collateral that includes any margin securities, 
and who is subject to the registration requirement of section 207.1(a) 
of Part 207 (Regulation G). 
(2) Credit obtained from a broker/dealer shall conform 
to the provisions of Part 220 (Regulation T), which is hereby 
incorporated in this part (Regulation X). When the term "broker/dealer" 
: 
/ 
is used in this part (Regulation X), it means a person who is a broker 
or dealer, including every member of a national securities exchange, 
and includes a foreign branch or subsidiary of a broker/dealer. 
(3) Credit obtained from a bank shall 
conform to the 
Provisions of Part 221 (Regulation U), except for section 221.2(i). 
Except for such section, Part 221 (Regulation U) is hereby incorporated 
in this part (Regulation X). When the term "bank" is used in this part 
(Regulation X), it means a bank that is subject to Part 221 (Regu-
lation U)._5/ 
(b) Credit obtained from outside the United States. (1) A 
United States person or foreign person controlled by a United States 
Person or acting on behalf of or in conjunction with such a person 
shall not obtain any purpose credit-^/ from outside the United States 
except in compliance with the following conditions: 
(i) Croclit obtained from a foreign branch of a G-lender 
shall conform to the provisions of Part 207 (Regulation G), except that 
5/ For a definition of the term "bank" meaning "bank that is subject to 
Regulation U", see section 224.5(b) of this part (Regulation X) and 
Statutory Appendix, section 2(a)(6). 
§./ For a definition of the terra "purpose credit" see section 224.5(j) 
of this part (Regulation X). 

2639 
- 10 -
the requirement of section 207.1(e) as to obtaining a statement of 
the purpose of the credit shall not apply. 
(ii) Credit obtained from a foreign branch or subsidiary 
2 0 , 
of a broker/dealer shall conform to the provisions of Part 220 
(Regulation T). 
(iii) Credit obtained from a foreign branch of a bank 
shall conform to the provisions of Part; 221 (Regulation U) which 
would apply if the credit were obtained from the head office of 
the bank in the United States, except that the requirement of 
section 221.3(a) of Part 221 (Regulation U) as to obtaining a 
statement of the purpose of the credit shall not apply. 
(iv) Credit obtained from a foreign lender shall conform 
to the provisions cf Part 207 (Regulation G) which would apply if 
iiu-u credit 
. •• 
ciy- W 
t;,cti 
' 
' • „h 
the person extending, arranging, or maintaining the credit were a 
G-lender, except that the requirement of section 207.1(e) of 
Part 207 (Regulation G) as to obtaining a statement of the purpose 
Of the credit shall not apply. When the term "foreign lender" is 
used in this part (Regulation X) it means any person, other than a 
United States person, who in the ordinary course of his business 
extends, maintains, or arranges purpose credit outside the United 
States and who is not a foreign branch or subsidiary of a broker/dealer, 
a foreign branch of a bank, or a foreign branch of a G-lender. 
(2) The provisions of subparagraph (1) of this subsection 
224.2(b) shall not apply to credit extended before November 1, 1971, 
except that as to credit extended after October 26, 1970, the 

- 11 -
2640 
requirements as to withdrawals and substitutions of collateral shall 
apply after May 1, 1972, as follows: the requirements in paragraph 
207.l(.'j) of Part 207 (Regulation G) shall apply to credit obtained 
from a foreign branch of a G-lender or from a foreign lender; the 
requirements in paragraph 220.3(b) of Part 220 (Regulation T) shall 
apply to credit obtained from a foreign branch or subsidiary of a 
broker/dealer; and the requirements in paragraph 221.1(b) of Part 221 
(Regulation U) shall apply to credit obtained from a foreign branch 
of a bank. 
Record of credit. Every borrower subject to this 
Part 224 (ReguJ .ation X) who obtains any credit from a lender 
described in subdivisions (i), (iii), or (iv) of paragraph 224.2(b)(1). 
if such credit is secured directly or indirectly, in whole or in 
Part, by collateral that includes any security, shall prepare and 
retain in his records, for at least 6 years after such credit is 
extinguished, a record substantially in conformity with the requirements 
of Federal Reserve Form X-l. 
SECTION 224.3 
EXEMPTIONS 
The following classes of persons shall be exempted from 
the provisions of section 7(f) of the Act and this part (Regulation X) 
to the extent described below: 
(a) A United States person whose permanent residence is 
°utside the United States, and who does not during any calendar year 
°"tain a total of more than $5,000 or have outstanding at any time 
during any calendar year a total of more than $5,000 in credit obtained 
°utside the United States to purchase or carry margin securities. 

' 2641 
- 12 -
(b) A borrower who is not a United States person, but 
is controlled by or acting on behalf of or in conjunction with such 
person, who obtains credit for the purpose of bona fide clearing, 
market making or arbitrage transactions in offshore debt securities 
that are convertible into margin securities, except that any credit 
outstanding against collateral consisting of such securities shall 
be brought into conformity with the other provisions of this part 
(Regulation X)-^ upon the conversion of such securities into margin 
securities. 
(c) A borrower who is not a United States person, but 
Is controlled by or acting on behalf of or in conjunction with such 
Person, who obtains credit from outside the United States, which 
borrower has been exempted by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, by Order, from the requirements of this part (Regu-
lation X), either unconditionally or upon specified terms and 
conditions or for stated periods, upon a finding that exceptional 
circumstances warrant the granting of such an exemption, and that 
the exemption is consonant with the purposes of section 7(f) of the 
Act and the provisions of this part (Regulation X). 
SECTION 224.4 -- REPORTS AND RECORDS 
£ M, tii 
:\u 5s; v 
i/ui of 
Every borrower described in section 224.1 who obtains any 
credit that is secured directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
by collateral that includes any securities, shall maintain such 
<•} " 
• ' 
• 
. . • ; . 
records and file such reports as may be prescribed by the Board of 
• .;'••••>.. A'U 
.-ilia 
- 
r • ' 
' ••- . • • • • : Ot 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System to enable it to perform the 
functions conferred upon it by the Act. 
2?"^ncluding ^"ar"ts"~207"~22Q~"or" 221 (Regulations G, T, and II) where applicable. 

- 13 -
2642 
SECTION 224.5 -- DEFINITIONS 
Unless the context otherwise requires, or it is otherwise 
specified herein, the terms used in and for the purposes of this 
part (Regulation X) have the meanings given them in this section 224,5, 
in sections 3(a) or 7(f) of the Act, or in Farts 207, 220, or 221 
(Regulations G, T, or U). The relevant portions of sections 3(a) 
and 7(f) of the Act are set forth in the Statutory Appendix. In 
the case of inconsistency between definitions appearing in this 
section 224.5 and those appearing in Parts 207, 220, or 221 (Regu-
lations G, T, or U), the definition appearing in the regulation that 
applies to the particular credit involved, whether Part 207, 220, 
or 221 (Regulations G, T, or U) shall prevail. 
(a) The term "acting on behalf of or in conjunction with" 
in reference to a foreign person means obtaining credit for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying a security in which, or in the 
income or gains or losses from which, a United States person or a 
foreign person controlled by a United States person has a substantial 
direct or indirect beneficial interest. Absent these factors the 
term does not include an interest derived solely from the ownership 
of less than 50 per cent of the outstanding capital stock issued by 
such foreign person who is obtaining such credit. 
(b) The term "bank" means a bank as defined in section 
3(a)(6) of the Act:, including a foreign branch of a bank, except 
that such term does not include a bank which is a member of a 
national securities exchange, a foreign affiliate of a bank, or a 
foreign bank. 

' 2643 
- 14 -
(c) The term "broker/dealer" means any broker or dealer 
including every member of a national securities exchange, and 
includes a foreign branch or subsidiary of a broker/dealer. 
(d) The term "foreign lender" means a person, other than 
a United States person, who in the ordinary course of his business 
extends, maintains, or arranges purpose credit outside the United 
States and who is not a foreign branch or subsidiary of a broker/dealer, 
a foreign branch of a bank, or a foreign branch of a G-lender. 
(e) The terra "G-lender" means a person who is not a 
broker/dealer or bank, who in the ordinary course of his business 
extends, maintains, or arranges credit that is secured, directly 
or indirectly, in whole or in part, by collateral that includes 
any margin securities, and who is subject to the registration require-
ment of section 207.1(a) of Part 207 (Regulation G). 
(f) The term "indirectly secured" includes any arrangement 
with the lender under which the right or ability to sell, pledge, or 
otherwise dispose of securities owned by the borrower (or by any 
npther person who has made the use of such securities available to 
the borrower) is in any way restricted as long as the credit remains 
outstanding, or under which the exercise of such right, whether by 
written agreement or otherwise, is or may be cause for acceleration 
'of maturity of the credit. The foregoing shall not apply, however, 

2 6 - 1 1 
- 15 -
(1) if such restriction arises solely by virtue of 
an arrangement with the lender which pertains 
generally to the borrower's assets unless a 
substantial part of such assets consists of 
margin securities, or 
(2) if the lender in good faith has not relied 
upon such securities as collateral in the 
extension or maintenance of the particular 
credit, or 
(3) to securities held by the lender only in 
the capacity of custodian, depositary, or 
trustee, or under similar circumstances, 
if the lender in good faith has not relied 
upon such securities as collateral in the 
extension or maintenance of the particular 
credit. 
(g) The term "lender" means a person who in the 
ordinary course of his business extends, maintains, or arranges for 
credit, including a G-lender, a broker/dealer, a bank, and a foreign 
lender. 
(h) The term ''margin security" shall have the meaning of 
"margin security" as defined in § 207.2(d) of Part 207 (Regulation G) 
if the borrower is obtaining credit from a G-lender or a foreign 
lender, the meaning of "margin security" as defined in section 220.2(f) 
°f Part 220 (Regulation T) if the borrower is obtaining credit from 

2 6 4 : 5 
- 16 -
a broker/dealer, and the meaning of "margin stock" as defined in 
section 221.3(v) of Part 221 (Regulation U) if the borrower is 
obtaining credit from a bank. 
(i) Hie term "offshore debt security," as to this part 
(Regulation X) means a debt security offered only outside the United 
States, the purchase of which by a United States person would give 
rise to a liability under the Interest Equalization Tax (26 U.S.C. 
4911 et. 
). 
(j) The term "purpose credit" means credit for the pur-
pose of purchasing or carrying securities. The purpose of a credit 
is determined by substance rather than form. The following are some 
examples of purpose credit. 
(1) Credit which is for the purpose, whether immediate, 
incidental, or ultimate, of purchasing or carrying 
a security is "purpose credit," despite any temporary 
application of the funds otherwise. 
(2) Credit to enable the borrower to reduce or retire 
indebtedness which was originally incurred to purchase 
security is for the purpose of "carrying" such a 
security. 
(3) Credit that is secured directly or indirectly, in 
whole or in part, by collateral that includes any 
securities, is presumed to be for the purpose of 
purchasing or carrying securities, unless the 
borrower has complied with the requirements of 

> 
264G 
; MU 
1 •• 
i ' 
- 17 -
Part 207 (Regulation G), Part 220 (Regulation T), 
or Part 22.1 (Regulation U) as to the statement of 
the purpose of a credit, if such requirements are 
applicable, or in the case of credit obtained from 
a foreign lender, can furnish satisfactory evidence 
of the use of the credit for a purpose other than 
purchasing or carrying securities. 
(4) An extension of credit provided for in a plan, pro-
gram, or investment contract offered or sold or 
otherwise initiated after August 21, 1969, which 
provides for the acquisition both of any securities 
and of goods, services, property interests, or 
investments. 
(k) The term "obtain credit" means to obtain, receive, or 
onioy the beneficial use of credit. 
(1.) The term "United States" includes any State of the 
United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Canal Zone, 
the Virgin Islands, or any other possession of the United States. 
SECTION 224.6 -- MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS 
( a ) Innocent Mistake. An innocent mistake made in good 
faith by a borrower in connection with the obtaining of a credit shall 
not be deemed to be a violation of this part (Regulation X) if 
Promptly after discovery of the mistake the borrower takes whatever 
action is practicable to remedy the non-compliance. 
(b) Aiding or Abetting. Any person who wilfully aids or 
abets the violation by any other person of any provision of this 

part (Regulation X) shall be deemed to be in violation of this part 
(Regulation X). For the purpose of this subsection, the term "aids 
or abets" shall include, but not be limited to, counsels, commands, 
induces, 01* procures. 
