Minutes for March 3, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 

816 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 3, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 1/ 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Sigel, 
Eckert, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, Keir, and Kelty 
of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Katz, Reynolds, Bryant, 
Gemmill, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reviewed developments in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Ettin discussed bank credit develop-
ments and the results of the most recent survey of bank lending prac-
tices, Mr. Keir commented on the corporate and municipal bond markets, 
and Mr. Gemmill summarized foreign exchange market developments along 
with recent data on liabilities of U.S. banks to their foreign branches. 
1/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Staff members of the research divisions except Mr. Sammons then 
withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Cloth, Attorney, Legal Division 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on February 27 and by the Federal Reserve Banks 
of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on March 2, 1967, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
Matters scheduled for interagency discussion. 
Governor 
Robertson advised that he was going to attend a meeting at the Treasury 
later this morning at which two matters would be discussed on which he 
would appreciate the reaction of the Board members. 
The first item, Governor Robertson said, had to do with the 
question whether to seek an extension of the statutory authority granted 
in 1965, in connection with the initiation of the voluntary foreign 
credit restraint program, that provided exemption from the antitrust 
laws, under specified conditions, for voluntary joint action taken by 
banks and other financial institutions to safeguard the U.S. balance of 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
payments position. That authority had never been used, and the Justice 
Department reportedly was of the view that it should be dropped. How-
ever, the Treasury was inclined to believe that the authority should be 
extended because it foresaw a possible need at some time in the future 
and because it would be easier to obtain extension of the authority 
than to obtain new legislation if needed. A reason that had been given 
to him for extending the authority, Governor Robertson said, was that 
if at some time it became necessary to resort to a capital issues device 
as a means of controlling capital outflows, this authority might be 
needed. His own feeling was that in such circumstances it would be 
better to follow a procedure that would not require an exemption from 
the antitrust laws. Nevertheless, while he saw no need to extend the 
present statutory authority, he was not inclined to oppose a request 
for extension vigorously if the Treasury wanted to seek it. 
Governor Maisel commented that the Treasury apparently felt 
that if a capital issues device became necessary, that program could 
be carried out through agreements among lenders rather than through 
Federal regulation. He would prefer to proceed under Federal regula-
tion. Governor Robertson agreed. 
Governor Brimmer said he hoped the Board would think carefully 
before expressing a view as to whether or not the present statutory 
authority should continue to be available. He agreed personally with 
the Treasury that the authority should be retained because of the 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
possibility that it would be needed at some point. There had been no 
change in the basic situation from 1965 to 1967, and if there were 
valid reasons for providing the authority in 1965, they still existed. 
A case had been made at that time: while voluntary cooperation on the 
part of the banking system to restrict foreign credits was anticipated, 
potential borrowers who were turned down by one bank could go to other 
banks and seek accommodation; therefore, it might be desirable to reach 
agreement on the kinds of over-all restrictions to which the banks would 
subject themselves. In his opinion the apparatus set up in 1965 should 
not be dismantled. That apparatus included the statutory authority in 
question, which was part of the total program contemplated by the Presi-
dent's balance of payments message in February 1965. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the statutory authority 
was principally a public relations gesture, a device that tended to make 
the whole program more palatable to the banks. Last summer, he recalled, 
some sentiment arose within the banking system for a domestic voluntary 
credit restraint program, and there was some suggestion that a statutory 
exemption from the antitrust laws would be useful in that context. In 
his view it would be better if the balance of payments program could be 
carried forward without an extension of the current standby exemption. 
Like Governor Robertson, however, he would not argue vigorously if the 
Treasury wanted to request an extension. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he would not like to see a 
negative position put forward unless the Board decided upon such a 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
position by vote. Until such time he would be willing, as an individual 
member of the Board, to testify in favor of a request for extension. 
Governor Robertson said he would make clear at today's meeting 
that the Board had not acted on the question. 
If the Treasury should 
decide to go ahead and request an extension, it would be up to the Board 
then to decide how to proceed in the circumstances. 
Governor Robertson then turned to the second question scheduled 
for discussion at the meeting at the Treasury. This had to do with the 
question, previously discussed by the Board on several occasions, of 
leg 
islation to regulate at the Federal level the entry of foreign banks 
into the U.S. through subsidiaries, branches, or other means, and to 
supervise such operations. Since the most recent Board discussion, the 
Treasury had drafted a revised legislative proposal under which the 
entry of foreign banks into the U.S. would be subject to approval by 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The Comptroller also would be given 
exclusive supervisory power at the Federal level over domestic opera-
tions of foreign banks once they were established in this country. 
After describing the scope of the revised legislative proposal 
l n more detail, Governor Robertson said his position would be, first, 
that the only apparent purpose of the legislation would be to assure 
reciprocity for American banks desiring to do business abroad and to 
establish a national policy with respect to such matters as examinations 
and reserve requirements. The need seemed questionable because of lack 

821 
3/3/67 
-6-
of evidence that supervision of the operations of foreign banks in this 
country was not adequate at the moment. The question of assuring reci-
procity involved problems of foreign relations and, in his view, that 
function would fall more logically to the State Department. However, 
even assuming that legislation was needed, the revised draft of legis-
lation placed the powers described therein in the wrong agency of the 
Government. The Board of Governors had over the years exercised author-
ity over operations of U.S. banks abroad. Relationships had been built 
U P with other central banks that enabled the Board to obtain information 
n°t available to any other agency, and its staff possessed a range of 
information that was not available elsewhere. 
The position he proposed to take, Governor Robertson added, 
would not preclude the Board as such from taking any position it desired 
once a bill was introduced. 
Governor Shepardson expressed the view that the position pro-
posed to be stated by Governor Robertson was sound. While it might not 
be appropriate to go further at this juncture, he wondered whether the 
Board might not now be prepared to express a view in support of Governor 
Robertson's position and authorize him to give notice that if such a 
bill was introduced the Board would expect to take a position against 
it. 
Governor Brimmer noted that under normal procedures any proposed 
bill would be distributed by the Bureau of the Budget to interested 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
agencies for comment. He felt Governor Robertson could be authorized 
to say that at such stage the Board would take exception to the pro-
posed bill and that if such a bill was nevertheless introduced the 
Board would be prepared to testify against it. 
Governor Robertson said he would indicate that, on the basis 
°f preliminary discussion, he anticipated that that would be the Board's 
position. Of course, the Board would be free to reach a final position 
after studying any changes that might be made in the current draft bill. 
Governor Maisel noted that it might be assumed that the Budget 
Bureau, under the customary procedures, would have to reach a decision 
an Administration position with respect to the form that the pro-
Posed bill would take. The Board probably would want to contest the 
matter with the Bureau before a proposed bill was endorsed as conform-
l n g to the program of the Administration. 
Governor Robertson also stated, as a matter of information, 
that a question had arisen concerning certain housing securities that 
the Comptroller of the Currency had ruled were general obligations and 
therefore eligible for bank underwriting. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York had advised a State member bank to the contrary, while the 
State member bank's counsel had taken the opposite position. A meeting 
had been arranged next week at the Board's offices at which legal repre-
S entatives of the New York Reserve Bank would present all of the facts 
°f the matter for the benefit of the Board's staff. 

823 
i 
3/3/67 
-8-
« 
Governor Robertson said he had suggested to the Comptroller 
that the latter might want to furnish information to the Board's staff 
that would clarify the basis for the Comptroller's ruling. The Comp-
troller had agreed and had indicated that he would like to have his 
counsel participate in the forthcoming staff meeting. Governor 
i 
Robertson had indicated that that would be agreeable. 
I 
Extension of time to establish branch (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, (copy attached as Item 
No. 1), granting an extension of time to establish a branch in Santiago, 
Chile. 
• 
Governor Robertson withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Investment in bank premises by holding company banks. As dis-
cussed in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated February 24, 1967, 
Marine Midland Corporation, a registered bank holding company, owned 
substantially all of the outstanding capital stock of eleven subsidiary 
banks, of which seven were State member banks, three were national banks, 
and one was a nonmember insured bank. Marine Midland Corporation also 
owned all of the outstanding stock of Marine Midland Properties Corpora-
tion, a subsidiary incorporated in 1961 for the purpose of acquiring and 
holding real and personal property and leasing the same to Marine Midland 
Corporation or its subsidiaries. Properties Corporation had acquired a 
substantial part of the bank premises previously owned by the subsidiary 

824 
3/3/67 
-9-
banks. If its indebtedness and that of Marine Midland was required to 
be included in determining the maximum amount that could be invested 
under section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act without supervisory approval, 
Board approval would be required for each future investment in bank prem-
ises by any of Marine Midland's State member subsidiary banks. Marine 
Midland had asked the Board to rule that none of its State member banks 
was required to include all or any part of the indebtedness of the sub-
sidiary corporation in determining how much it could invest in bank 
premises without Board approval. In the alternative, Marine Midland 
asked that the Board treat the subsidiary banks as a group. 
As justification for the principal request, Marine Midland cited, 
among other things, a ruling of the Comptroller of the Currency that 
indebtedness of an affiliated bank premises corporation must be taken 
into account only when the bank has a direct investment in such corpora-
tion. 
The Legal Division recommended that the Board give prior general 
approval to any investment or loan (as described in section 24A) by a 
holding company system State member bank provided that the proposed 
investment or loan would not cause (1) the depreciated cost of the 
bank's premises to exceed 100 per cent of the bank's capital stock and 
(2) the aggregate depreciated cost of all holding company system bank 
premises to exceed 100 per cent of the aggregate capital stock of all 
the system's subsidiary banks. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
The Comptroller's interpretation was not recommended because it 
would "amend" the statute by adding as a further condition the require-
ment of direct investment in an affiliate, contrary to the express 
language of the statute. However, if the Board adopted the Division's 
recommendation, discussion with the Comptroller was suggested prior to 
issuance of the Board's interpretation in the hope of achieving a uni-
form interpretation of section 24A. If an agreement could be reached, 
it was recommended that the interpretation be published in the Federal 
Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin. Otherwise, publication was 
not recommended. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would prefer the Comptroller's 
ruling since it seemed to him a more logical method of dealing with the 
problem. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the staff had attempted to 
work out something with the Comptroller, and Mr. Hexter replied that 
the proposal was to take the problem up with the Comptroller before 
actually issuing a ruling in the hope that agreement could be reached. 
He went on to say that the Legal Division felt it would be difficult to 
hold that the language of the statute was intended to be applied in the 
manner determined by the Comptroller. It was believed that the recom-
mended interpretation would accomplish the desired objective without 
disregarding the language of the statute. Perhaps, in the circumstances, 
the Comptroller would shift to the position recommended by the Board's 
staff. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Governor Brimmer said he understood that the Legal Division was 
recommending adoption of a Board position rather than negotiation with 
the Comptroller. He would have preferred the latter course. Like 
Governor Maisel, he preferred the Comptroller's ruling, but he had been 
reluctant to express his preference in that direction in view of the 
Legal Division's statement that the adoption of such an interpretation 
would amount to amending the statute. He did hope, however, that 
efforts would be made to negotiate on matters of this kind rather than 
to take rigid positions. 
Governor Maisel said he felt the basic question was whether the 
Board believed, like the Comptroller, that legislation of this sort 
could be read flexibly by the administering agency. In several cases 
the Legal Division had said that the Board did not have the right to 
look at such matters in a logical manner. Personally, he would be 
inclined in this case to read the law in the same way as the Comptroller. 
As matters stood, two different interpretations of the same law had been 
made, whereas in his opinion the Board should be asked by the staff to 
make the determination as to how the law should be interpreted. The 
staff memorandum, as presented, did not spell out the arguments on both 
sides. In making a decision he would like to study the pros and cons, 
and he did not find them in the memorandum. 
Mr. Hackley said that he had tried hard to interpret the language 
of the statute in the same way as the Comptroller but finally had come 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
to the conclusion that the literal language of the statute clearly 
required inclusion of the indebtedness of a bank premises company that 
was an affiliate of a member bank even though the member bank had no 
direct investment in that affiliate. That seemed so clear to the Legal 
Division that it did not discuss the Comptroller's interpretation more 
specifically in the memorandum. The recommended conclusion would stay 
within the terms of the statute and at the same time apparently would 
provide Marine Midland with a satisfactory solution to its problem. In 
his view, if the Board's staff talked with the Comptroller's staff, it 
was preferable for the Board's staff to have in hand a solution accept-
able to the Board before entering into the discussion. 
Governor Mitchell observed that a new Comptroller had taken 
office and said he would attach quite a bit of importance, in matters 
of this kind, to winding up in agreement with the Comptroller. In this 
Particular matter, he would attach a high priority to that outcome for 
it seemed generally agreed that it was desirable to give Marine Midland 
some adequate relief. The main issue, then, was whether this would be 
another instance of an unreconciled difference of opinion between the 
Board and the Comptroller. He would avoid such a result if there was 
any reasonable way of avoiding it. 
With reference to the suggestion in the Legal Division's memo-
randum that publication not be made of the Board's interpretation if 
agreement could not be reached with the Comptroller's Office, Governor 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Brimmer said he would want to take explicit exception. If the Board 
made a ruling, it should be made available to all interested parties. 
Lack of interest could not be presumed simply because parties did not 
write in to the Board for a ruling. He did not favor private rulings. 
If this one would have possible application to other bank holding com-
panies, he felt that it should be made public. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the provisions of the Freedom 
of Information Act would not require any such ruling to be made public, 
and Mr. Hackley replied that those provisions would apply only to inter-
pretations of general applicability. In this instance, the ruling could 
be brought by the Federal Reserve Banks to the attention of any other 
bank holding company that was in a similar situation. 
Governor Maisel commented that the availability of the ruling 
could be a critical factor in a party's determination whether to become 
a bank holding company. In his view, the interpretation should be made 
available generally. 
Governor Shepardson said he thought the point on publication was 
well taken. He went on to point out that the Comptroller's ruling appar-
ently had been issued without consultation with representatives of the 
Federal Reserve. If the Board simply instructed its staff to confer 
and to come back with an agreed position, that would amount to saying 
that if the Comptroller did not accept the position recommended by the 
Legal Division, the Board would automatically accept the Comptroller's 
Position. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Governor Brimmer said he would not go that far. He simply felt 
that every effort should be made to discuss the matter fully with the 
present Comptroller, particularly since the ruling in question was made 
by his predecessor. If the present Comptroller showed no inclination 
to amend the ruling, the Board's staff should come back to the Board for 
further guidance. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he would like to see an explana-
tion of the reasoning that had been gone through in arriving at the out-
standing ruling, and Mr. Hexter commented that a request of the Comptrol-
ler's Office for such reasoning would probably make it more difficult 
for the Board's staff to work out a common position. In his view, the 
ruling probably was issued at the direction of the former Comptroller. 
It was difficult for him to imagine a situation in which the language 
of the statute could be more clear. 
Governor Maisel noted that he was suggesting an effort to 
negotiate an agreement. If that could not be done, both sides must 
have reasons. He would negotiate in the first instance, but if the 
negotiation was not successful he would like to know the reasons for 
disagreement. 
Governor Shepardson said he would assume that the Board's staff 
could develop in one way or another the rationale for the Comptroller's 
interpretation, or at least the basis on which the Comptroller's Office 
continued to hold that view. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Mr. Hexter commented that if the parties got into a posture of 
defending their respective positions, the likelihood of agreement would 
be reduced. He thought it better to endeavor to reach an agreement 
before asking the Comptroller to explain the reasoning underlying the 
outstanding interpretation. 
Governor Shepardson suggested that the Legal Division itself 
should be able to develop pro and con arguments. He inquired whether 
the recommended interpretation had been discussed with Marine Midland, 
and the answer was in the negative. Governor Shepardson then commented 
that before the matter was brought back to the Board it would be helpful 
to know whether or not the recommended approach would be regarded by 
Marine Midland as meeting its problem satisfactorily. 
Governor Shepardson stated, in conclusion, that it was understood 
the staff would take the matter up with the Comptroller's Office to see 
if there was a possibility of reconciling the two positions. The staff 
would then report back to the Board. In so doing, the staff would pre-
sent the Comptroller's reasoning or, absent that, its own analysis of 
what it thought the Comptroller's reasoning might be. Also, there would 
be informal contact with Marine Midland to obtain Marine Midland's view 
whether the recommended interpretation would meet its problem. 
Par clearance legislation. When the Board recently considered 
letters to Congressional Committees recommending legislation in several 
areas, certain questions were raised with respect to the draft letter 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
recommending the introduction of a bill to prohibit exchange charges. 
There had now been distributed, with a memorandum from Mr. Hackley dated 
March 1, 1967, a revised draft of letter that would be sent to Chairman 
Sparkman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee. A similar letter 
would be sent to Chairman Patman of the House Committee except that it 
would refer to a letter from Chairman Patman dated February 7, 1967, 
requesting a report on two par clearance bills that had been introduced 
in the House. 
Mr. Hackley
1s memorandum noted that he had discussed with Presi-
dent Galusha of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis the possible 
effect of sending such letters at this time upon the success of the 
present movement in Minnesota toward the enactment of State par clear-
ance legislation. President Galusha felt that it would not be advisable 
to send the letters to Congress for at least a couple of weeks since he 
believed such action might retard the movement in Minnesota. 
Nonpar 
bankers in the State might use the Board's letters as a basis for urging 
that consideration of a bill in the Minnesota legislature be deferred 
because Congress was about to enact a Federal law. 
Mr. Hackley reported on a conversation with President Galusha 
yesterday in which the latter said he expected the State bill to become 
law within a matter of perhaps ten days. President Galusha felt strongly 
that the Board should not send letters to Congress until the State legis-
lation had been enacted. President Galusha also said that the Board's 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
recent action reducing reserve requirements was helpful from the stand-
point of improving the prospects for the State legislation because it 
made such legislation more palatable to the smaller banks. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that the sending of the proposed 
letters to the Congressional Committees would be deferred temporarily 
but that the Board would consider the matter again if developments in 
connection with the State legislation in Minnesota did not proceed as 
rapidly as anticipated by President Galusha. 
Provision-of-space costs at New York Reserve Bank (Item No. 2). 
There had been circulated a memorandum from the Division of Bank Opera-
tions dated February 15, 1967, regarding provision-of-space costs at 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. A draft of letter to the Reserve 
Bank was submitted with the memorandum. 
After comments by Mr. Kiley, the letter was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Mr. Farrell noted that the Board had asked the New York Reserve 
Bank for an interim report providing various data bearing upon the ques-
tion of the Bank's proposed annex project. He said the Division of Bank 
Operations had been pursuing the request regularly with the Reserve Bank 
and had been assured that the First Vice President was aware that the 
Reserve Bank had not replied to the Board's questions. The Division 
assumed, however, that delay would work in the Board's favor because 
the situation should become more clear. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Governor Mitchell observed that there appeared to be no reason 
to exert pressure on the Reserve Bank for the data, and no indication 
of disagreement with that view was indicated. 
Checks not qualified for machine handling. There had been 
distributed a memorandum from Mr. Farrell dated February 27, 1967, 
referring to developments since the Board's announcement in a press 
release on August 8, 1966, that effective September 1, 1967, the Federal 
Reserve Banks and branches would no longer handle as cash items checks 
not bearing in magnetic ink the payor's routing symbol-transit number. 
The press release had indicated that this change in procedure was aimed 
at minimizing the use of checks not qualified for handling on high-speed 
electronic equipment and that, depending on progress in this direction, 
further consideration would be given before September 1, 1967, to the 
Possibility of imposing a collection charge on nonconforming items. 
Attached to the memorandum was a copy of a memorandum of 
February 9, 1967, from the Chairman of the Presidents' Conference Sub-
committee on Collections to representatives of all Reserve Banks enclos-
ing the results of a survey made in January 1967 of the number of checks 
not qualified for high-speed handling; also a copy of a letter to be 
sent by each Reserve Bank on February 21, 1967, to all banking institu-
tions in its district with regard to the program to eliminate nonmachin-
able items. The survey showed that out of a total of 17.7 million items 
reviewed, about 3 per cent did not qualify for high-speed handling. About 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
35 per cent of the nonconforming items represented checks drawn by 
corporations, 6 per cent represented pre-authorized life insurance 
premium drafts, and 5 per cent represented municipal warrants. 
Also submitted with the memorandum was a draft of letter that 
might be sent by Chairman Martin to the Chairman of General Motors 
Corporation urging that that corporation make the necessary changes in 
its procedures to bring its checks in line with coding specifications 
of the American Bankers Association. Many checks issued by General 
Motors were payable through several banks. Accordingly, they did not 
bear the sorting symbol of a payor bank and were not machinable. 
In addition, there was submitted with the memorandum a draft of 
letter proposed to be sent by Reserve Bank Presidents to corporations 
and others in their districts still issuing nonconforming checks. Thus 
far, System efforts had been directed to the commercial banks, but there 
had been some indications that the banks were reluctant to put too much 
pressure on sensitive accounts. 
There was also submitted a draft of proposed letter from the 
Board to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks expressing concern 
about the results of the January survey and about indications of some 
feeling among the Reserve Banks that the September 1 deadline for 
handling nonmachinable checks as cash items might have to be postponed. 
The letter would request that extra efforts be put forth to achieve more 
Progress toward elimination of nonmachinable items and would request the 

S n 5 
3/3/67 
-20-
views of the Presidents, at the time of the June meeting of the Presi-
dents' Conference, with respect to announcing a charge for such items 
if satisfactory progress toward their elimination had not been achieved 
by that time. 
Mr. Farrell observed that an important decision was involved 
for the Board and the System. 
If the decision was to go ahead with the 
September 1 deadline and a further substantial reduction in nonmachinable 
items had not been achieved by that date, System expenses would be 
increased measurably. If, on the other hand, the decision was to back 
off from the September 1 deadline, there would be a large continuing 
System expense in handling the nonmachinable items on an exception 
ba sis. Also, that would impair the whole concept of expediting money 
transfers. 
Mr. Farrell said there appeared to be some difference of opinion 
within the Federal Reserve Banks on the best way to approach the problem. 
What was involved now was the hard core of opposition to the changes in 
Procedure necessary to make checks machinable. 
If the volume of non-
machinable checks could not be reduced substantially, difficulty would 
lie ahead because the Reserve Banks agreed unanimously that they could 
not handle such items as noncash items in any substantial volume except 
at a very high cost. 
There was also a difference of opinion within the Federal 
Reserve Banks, Mr. Farrell said, about whether the problem should be 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
attacked through the imposition of a handling charge for nonmachinable 
items. He added that there would probably be considerable opposition 
from various sources as a result of the System's position on this matter 
once it became known. Involved was the question whether the Reserve 
Banks should bear the expense of handling the nonmachinable items or 
whether the large city correspondent banks were going to have to bear 
the expense. 
Governor Brimmer noted that he would have to leave the meeting 
shortly and asked whether action today on the recommendations in the 
memorandum was contemplated. 
Governor Mitchell responded that the Reserve Bank Presidents 
would be here next Monday for a meeting of the Presidents' Conference 
and that it would be desirable for them to know the Board's position. 
Governor Brimmer then said that he shared Governor Mitchell's 
concern about the problem and favored the most vigorous action that 
could be taken. Specifically, he would not back off from the September 1 
deadline, and he would favor sending the proposed letter to General Motors 
Corporation. As to the corporations whose activities were more local in 
nature, he thought it appropriate to request the Reserve Bank Presidents 
to follow through. He would give every indication of the Board's deter-
mination to push ahead. From discussion of the problem in recent visits 
to several Reserve Banks, he had detected some tendency to think in 
terms of backing away from the September deadline. He would be against 
that, and he felt that the System should push ahead vigorously. 

8 
3/3/67 
-22-
Governor Brimmer then withdrew from the meeting. 
Governor Shepardson requested a further explanation of exactly 
what was contemplated at this time, and Governor Mitchell said that 
when the Presidents came to Washington for the meeting of Conference 
they would discuss this issue. There was likely to be some sentiment 
among them for deferring the deadline. The question was whether the 
Board thought it advisable for the System to make a determined effort 
to meet the deadline or whether the Board was disposed to back away. 
Governor Shepardson said he understood that the purpose of 
today's discussion was really to develop a Board attitude that could be 
conveyed to the Presidents, and Governor Mitchell agreed. In his view 
the Presidents should be impressed that the Board expected them to meet 
the September 1 deadline and to attack the problem with a sense of 
urgency. The details of the several letters that were proposed to be 
sent could be taken up later. 
There followed suggestions by Governor Maisel and Governor 
Shepardson for clarifying changes in the draft letter to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents and in the letter proposed to be sent by the Presidents 
to corporations and others in their respective districts. 
Governor Shepardson then said it would be understood that the 
Board's view, which could be expressed to the Presidents, was one of 
support for the general position indicated in the draft letter to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents. 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
Mr. Farrell said it was hoped that a draft of the letter to the 
Reserve Bank Presidents could be placed before President Scanlon, as 
Chairman of the Committee on Collections, Monday morning, with an indi-
cation that the Board supported the position stated in that letter. 
The letter could then be amended editorially in such manner as the Board 
saw fit before actually being sent to the Reserve Banks. 
After additional discussion, it was understood that the proce-
dure suggested by Governor Mitchell and Mr. Farrell would be followed, 
that the proposed letters would be amended in certain respects in line 
with suggestions made by Board members at this meeting, and that they 
would then be considered again by the Board, at which time a report of 
the discussion by the Presidents' Conference should be available. 
Directors Day. There had been distributed a memorandum from 
Mr. Morgan dated March 1, 1967, outlining the tentative program for the 
14 th annual Directors Day, scheduled for Thursday, March 23. The tenta-
tive program had been worked out by Governors Shepardson and Daane in 
consultation with members of the staff. 
Several suggestions were made with regard to the presentation 
°f various parts of the proposed program, after which general agreement 
was indicated with the program as outlined in the memorandum. 
Atlanta salary structure (Item No. 3). Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta (copy attached 
as Item No. 3) approving certain changes in the employee salary structures 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
of the Bank's head office and branches. These revisions recognized the 
recent change in the minimum wage law. 
Underwriting of revenue bonds. Mr. Hexter reported a telephone 
call from the Department of Justice yesterday relative to the question 
of taking an appeal from the recent District Court decision which upheld 
the plaintiffs in their complaint against a ruling by the Comptroller of 
the Currency authorizing national banks to underwrite and deal in revenue 
bonds. The party who called indicated that the Solicitor General was 
about to consider whether to enter an appeal. The question was whether, 
if the Solicitor General was inclined to appeal in support of the Comp-
troller's interpretation, the Board would like its representatives to 
have an opportunity to discuss the matter with the Solicitor General's 
staff. 
It was agreed that that would be desirable. 
International Banking Summer School. The Board approved the 
nomination of Frederick R. Dahl, Assistant Director in the Division of 
Examinations, to participate in the International Banking Summer School 
to be held in Kingston, Ontario, Canada, August 13-26, 1967, with the 
understanding that during the actual time of his stay at the school Mr. 
Dahl would be on an actual expense basis but during time in travel he 
would receive the per diem in lieu of expenses provided by the Stan-
dardized Government Travel Regulations. The Board also authorized an 
expenditure not exceeding $100 to cover the pro rata expense involved 

8fi3 
3/3/67 
-18-
if it continued to be the custom at the school for each national delega-
tion to give a reception. 
Attendance by Mr. Sigel at international meeting. The Board 
authorized foreign travel by Stanley J. Sigel, Associate Adviser in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, to attend the 1967 meeting of the 
International Association for Research in Income and Wealth, to be held 
in Ireland August 20-26, 1967. The Board also authorized courtesy calls 
by Mr. Sigel at the Central Bank of Ireland, perhaps at other Irish 
institutions, and at the Bank of England. 
Inter-American Development Bank. The Board authorized a luncheon 
in the Federal Reserve Building on Tuesday, April 25, 1967, for senior 
central bank officials attending the 1967 meeting of the Board of Gover-
nors of the Inter-American Development Bank. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

841 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
3/3/67 
A O D R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1967 
Bank of America National 
Trust and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomety Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
On the basis of the information furnished in your letter 
of February 2, 1967, the Board of Governors extends to September 1, 
1967, the time within which your bank may establish the branch in 
Santiago, Chile, authorized in the Board's letter of February 23, 
1966. 
You state that: 
. .Negotiations with Chilean banking authorities 
have taken much longer than originally anticipated, 
primarily because our negotiations to open a branch were 
interrupted by our negotiations to purchase Banco Italiano 
S.A., Santiago, Chile, as described in our letter of 
December 29, 1966. 
"Negotiations for the purchase of Banco Italiano 
have been more protracted than anticipated, and consequently 
it is not yet known whether we will proceed by this route 
or by the opening of a de Novo Branch. . 
In the circumstances, the Board of Governors also extends 
to September 1, 1967, the time within which your bank may establish 
Hie branches in Valparaiso, Vina del Mar, and Melipilla, Chile, 
authorized iri the Board's letter of January 26, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

842 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 2 
OF THE 
3/3/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1967 
Mr. Walter H. Rozell, Jr., 
Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Rozell: 
The Board has reviewed your letter of January 27, 1967, 
summarizing the progress made by the Bank in reducing housekeeping 
costs in a period of one year through the third quarter of 1965 and 
outlining some of the plans for further reductions in the future. 
In addition to the reductions noted in your letter, 
further improvement in the Bank's housekeeping costs per square 
foot of building space has been noted from the Consolidated 
Statement of Reserve Bank Expenses for the fourth quarter of 1966. 
The Board hopes that this improvement will continue in 1967 and 
that substantial improvement will also result in your building 
maintenance and operating costs from the review now being made of 
those activities. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

843 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, • . C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
3/3/67 
A O O R E 8 8 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1967 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
As requested in your letter of February 13, 1967, 
the Board of Governors has approved, effective March 1, 1967, 
the following salary structure for Grades 1 through 3 at 
Atlanta and Birmingham, Jacksonville and New Orleans, and 
Grades 1 through 4 at the Nashville Branch. 
Atlanta- 
Jacksonville-
Birmingham 
New Orleans 
Nashville 
Minimum Maximum 
Minimum 
Maximum 
Grade 
1 
2 
3 
4 
Minimum 
$ 3,000 
3,100 
3,200 
Maximum 
$3,800 
4,000 
4,200 
$3,000 
3,100 
3,200 
$3,800 
4,000 
4,200 
$3,000 
3,100 
3,200 
3,300 
$3,400 
3,500 
3,600 
4,100 
It is noted that no changes are requested for the 
maximums of these grades. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
