609 
5-67) 
Minutes for September 11, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, September 11, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Lynch, and Noble of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Lawrence, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Maguire of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Approved items. The following letters and telegram were 
approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
that had been made available to the Board. Copies are attached under 
the respective item numbers indicated. 

O H 
9/11/68 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
1 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent for it to continue to hold stock of 
Chase and Bank of Ireland (International) 
Limited, Dublin, Ireland, after the latter 
institution opened a branch in Belfast. 
Letter to Wertheim & Co., New York, New York, 
2 
regarding the question whether Edge corpora-
tions could appropriately continue to hold 
small equity positions in Deltec Panamerica 
S.A. after a certain acquisition proposed by 
that organization was consummated. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
3 
York approving the opening of an account on 
the Bank's books in the name of the Sultan 
of Muscat and Oman. 
Reports on competitive factors. Reports to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the following pro-
posed mergers were approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comp-
troller, the conclusions being stated as follows: 
Merger of The First National Bank of Hillsborough, 
Hillsboro, New Hampshire, into The Mechanicks 
National Bank of Concord, Concord, New Hampshire 
Mechanicks National Bank of Concord and New Hampshire Savings 
Bank, Concord, share common offices and have been closely associated 
with The First National Bank of Hillsborough since 1960. 
Consummation 
of this proposed transaction would not eliminate any effective exist-
ing competition but would eliminate potential competition in the event 
the close relationship existing between the Concord Banks and the 
Hillsboro Bank were to be terminated. The overall competitive effect 
of the proposal would be slightly adverse. 

9/11/68 
-3-
Merger of Security National Bank of Long Island, 
Huntington, New York, with The Second National 
Bank and Trust Company of Hempstead, Hempstead, 
New York 
The proposed merger of The Second National Bank and Trust Company 
of Hempstead, into Security National Bank of Long Island, Huntington, 
would eliminate only a nominal amount of existing competition and the 
possibility of competition developing between the two in the future 
appears remote. Overall, the competitive effects of the proposal 
would be slightly adverse. 
Merger of North Carolina National Bank with American-
Security National Bank, both of Charlotte, North Carolina 
Consummation of the proposed merger of North Carolina National 
Bank, Charlotte, and American-Security National Bank, Charlotte, would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Clifton Trust 
Bank with Clifton Savings Bank, both of Baltimore, Maryland, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclu-
sion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Rocky Hill 
Bank and Trust Company, Rocky Hill, Connecticut, and New Britain Bank 
and Trust Company, New Britain, Connecticut, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition between the Rocky 
Hill Bank and Trust Company and New Britain Bank and Trust Com-
pany, and the overall competitive effect would be slightly 
adverse. 

3415 
9/11/68 
-4-
Applications of Barnett National Securities Corporation 
(Items 4-6). There had been distributed drafts of orders and a state-
ment reflecting the Board's action on August 28, 1968, approving the 
applications of Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Munroe and Chambliss National Bank of Ocala, Ocala, Florida, and Munroe 
and Chambliss National Bank of East Ocala, Ocala, Florida. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are attached as 
Items 4-6. 
Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending (Item No. 7). The Board 
approved unanimously a recommendation by Governor Robertson that per 
diem be paid to members of the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending 
on the basis recommended in a memorandum from Mr. Solomon dated Septem-
ber 10, 1968 (copy attached as Item No. 7). 
Culpeper facility modifications. Governor Sherrill referred 
to the Board's approval on August 9, 1967, of an additional expenditure 
of not more than $470,000 for modifications in the Culpeper project to 
provide additional equipment space, power supply, and air conditioning 
capacity to accommodate the proposed computer system and communications 
switching system layout. The modifications had now been completed, and 
it had developed that the current cost estimate was in the neighborhood 
of $1.1 million. Governor Sherrill regarded this as a sufficiently 

3416 
9/11/68 
-5-
serious matter to warrant careful exploration. President Heflin of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond had proposed presenting the matter 
to the Board, but he (Governor Sherrill) suggested that he be autho-
rized to explore with President Heflin, before any recommendation was 
made to the Board, the possibility of arriving at some better solution 
than was now being offered. 
Governor Robertson suggested that, contingent upon ascertaining 
that the procedure would be agreeable to Chairman Martin, Governor 
Sherrill be so authorized. 
There was unanimous agreement with Governor Robertson's sugges-
tion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 1 
9/11/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1968 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York, 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
lett er of August 16, 1968, the Board of Governors grants 
its consent for your Corporation to continue to hold the 
stock of Chase and Bank of Ireland (International) Limited 
("Chase Ireland"), Dublin, Ireland, after Chase Ireland 
opens a branch in Belfast, Northern Ireland, United Kingdom. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

3 4 1 S 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
9/11/68 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1968 
Mr . John W . Hanes, Jr., 
Wertheim & Co., 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Dear Mr. Hanes: 
This refers to your letter and memorandum of July 22, 
1968 to Chairman Martin concerning the question whether Edge Act 
companies could appropriately continue to hold small equity positions 
in Deltec Panamerica S.A. after the proposed acquisition by Deltec of 
a 34 per cent stock interest in a new Canadian corporation organized 
to consolidate Deltec's operations with those of International 
Packers, Ltd., which presently engages to a substantial degree in 
the sale of meat products in the United States. It is understood 
that Armour & Co. (which now owns about 30 per cent of IPL) will 
maintain about a 20 per cent stock interest in the consolidated 
corporation, the remaining 46 per cent being widely held. 
Assuming that Deltec would not, at least at the outset, 
effectively control that portion of the consolidated corporation's 
activities attributable to IPL, it does not seem that Deltec should 
be regarded as indirectly "engaged in the general business of buying 
or selling goods, wares, merchandise or commodities in the United 
States". If this assumption is correct, the Edge Act companies' 
equity investments in Deltec would not seem inappropriate under the 
statute. The appropriateness of continued holding of Deltec shares 
by Edge corporations would, however, come into question should 
Deltec ever effectively control operations in the United States of 
the type presently conducted by IPL. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
T E L E G R A M 
9/11/68 
L E A S E D W I R E 
S E R V I C E 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S O F T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON 
September 11, 1968 
MACLAURY - NEW YORK 
Your wire of September 5. Board approves opening and maintenance 
of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York in the 
name of Sultan of Muscat and Oman, subject to usual terms and 
conditions. It is understood that- participation in this account 
will be offered to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

Item No. 2 
9/11/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION,
 
1 
Jacksonville, Florida, ••
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
The Munroe and Chambliss National Bank
 
1 
of Ocala, Ocala, Florida. 
•
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National Securities Cor-
poration, Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The Munroe and Chambliss National Bank 
of Ocala, Ocala, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 8, 19fc8 (33 Federal Register 6944), providing 
art opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
w
ith respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
b
y the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th day of September, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Robertson. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 2 
9/11/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION, 
Jacksonville, Florida, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Munroe and Chambliss National Bank of 
East Ocala, Ocala, Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Barnett National Securities 
Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
wore of the voting shares of Munroe and Chambliss National Bank of 
East Ocala, Ocala, Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of the application and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application. 
t 
i 
i 
i 
i 
• 
i 
i 
t 
i 
i 

3423 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on Hay 8, 1968 (33 Federal Register 6944), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
r
espect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was for-
warded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 11th 
day of September, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Robertson* 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3*124 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
BARNETT NATIONAL SECURITIES CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE MUNROE AND CHAMBLISS NATIONAL BANK OF OCALA, OCALA, FLORIDA 
AND MUNROE AND CHAMBLISS NATIONAL BANK OF 
EAST OCALA, OCALA, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida 
\ Applic ant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acqui-
sition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Munroe and Cham-
b
U s s National Bank of Ocala, Ocala, Florida ("Ocala Bank"), and Munroe 
Chambliss National Bank of East Ocala, Ocala, Florida ("East Ocala 
Bank"). While each of the applications has been separately considered and 
i s
 the subject of a separate Board Order, because of facts and circum-
stances common to both applications, this Statement contains the Board's 
findings and conclusio ns v;ith respect to both. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As required 
b
y section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller of the 
Currency of receipt of the applications and requested his views and rec-
ommendations thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of both appli-
cations. 
Item No. 2 
9/11/68 

Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
of the United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substan-
tially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which 
in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds 
that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In 
e
ach case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
a
nd the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transactions. - Applicant, the 
fourth largest holding company and fourth largest banking organization in 
t h e
 State of Florida, presently controls eleven banks with aggregate de-
Posits of $395 million. ^ 
The ten largest banking organizations, the 
S e
ven largest of which are bank holding companies, presently control about 
37 
per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. Upon con-
summation of the proposals, Applicant, which now controls 4.03 per cent of 
the total deposits held by the State's 447 commercial banks, would control 
4 ' P
e
r cent of such deposits. Approval of the applications would therefore 
•1/ Banking data are as of December 31, 1967, unless otherwise noted, and 
r
°flect acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

3426 
-3-
have only slight effect on the oresent degree of State-wide concentration. 
Both of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in the City 
°f Ocala, in Marion County, Florida. Applicant presently has no subsidiary 
in Marion County and none within 60 miles of Ocala. The Ocala National 
Forest constitutes a natural barrier between Ocala and Applicant's closest 
subsidiary bank, x/hich is located in DeLand. None of Applicant's sub-
sidiaries 
competes with either of the subject banks and, in view of the dis-
tances involved and the prohibition against branch banking in Florida, it 
does not appear littely that such competition would develop in the future. 
Although East Ocala Bank serves a n area which lies wholly within 
that served by Ocala Bank, there is no effective comnetition between them 
a
nd little prospect that such will develop in the future. East Ocala Bank, 
which began business in February of this year, was organized by the manage-
ment of Ocala Bank to provide a more accessible banking facility for resi-
dents of the eastern section of Ocala, the largest residential area of the 
City. Each of the ten directors of East Ocala Bank serves also on the 
Board of Ocala Bank, its Board Chairman is Executive Vice President of Ocala 
Bank, its President is a former officer and oresent director of Ocala Bank, 
a
nd a majority of its stock is owned by persons who also own a majority 
of the shares of Ocala Bank. East Ocala Bank is at present heavily depend-
e
nt on Ocala Bank for earnings assets, and, although it is probable that 
the necessity for the present affiliation would diminish after the former 
hank's initial period of gro\7th, such affiliation seems sufficiently bene-
ficial to both banks to preclude the likelihood of its voluntary dissolution 

O ' i 
4 
-4-
in the indefinite future. Consummation of Applicant's proposal, therefore, 
would not eliminate existing or potential competition between the tuo banks. 
In addition to Ocala Bank and East Ocala Bank, which have total 
2/ 
deposits 
of $21 million and $1.1 million, respectively, the City of 
°cala is served by three other banks: Commercial Bank & Trust Company of 
°cala ($29 million deposits); Florida First National Bank at Ocala ($10 
m i
U i o n deposits), a subsidiary of the duPont Trust, a registered bank 
holding company; and First Marion Bank ($4.3 million deposits). 
TXJO other 
banks, each with deposits of about $4 million, are located elsewhere in 
Marion County. The present levels of concentration in Ocala and Marion 
G
ounty would not be affected by the present proposals, and it does not 
a
PPear that there v/ould be any significant adverse effect on the viability 
competitive effectiveness of competing institutions. 
In light of these facts, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisitions would not result in a monopoly nor be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to mcncpolize the 
business of backing in any area. It does not appear that the proposals 
l7
ould have the effect of substantially lessening competition or tending to 
C r
eate a monopoly in any section of the country, nor vjould they in any 
other manner be in restraint of trade. 
Financial and managerial resources and fv.»:urn . prog??cts. - Appli-
cant's financial condition, its management, and its prospects are considered 
s
atisfactory. 
4/ 
All deposit data in this paragraph are as of April 13, 1968. 

3428' 
-5-
Management of Ocala Bank and East Ocala Bank, which is to a large 
extent shared by both, is considered competent. The financial condition 
both is considered satisfactory, except that the present capital of 
°cala Bank is somewhat belox; the desirable level for a bank of its size; 
this fact has been recognized by Applicant, which proposes, if the present 
application is approved, to provide such additional capital as is found 
appropriate by the Comptroller of the Currency. The prospects of both 
b
anks are considered good, although those of East Ocala Bank, for the im-
m c
diate future, are heavily dependent on continuation of its present affil-
iation with Ocala Bank. 
Considerations under this factor are consistent with approval of 
applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - Consummation 
Applicant's proposal would not affect the convenience or needs of the 
communities served by its present subsidiaries. 
Marion County, which has a population of 65,000, has a diverse 
economy consisting of agriculture, light industry, mining, and tourism. 
Principal agricultural products are cattle and citrus, with a moderate amount 
truck farming and over 100 thoroughbred horse farms; meat packing and 
citrus concentrate plants are located in the county. The area has several 
tourist attractions, the largest of which is Silver Springs. Mining activi-
t
ie3 
stem primarily from the County's deposits of limerock and limestone. 
The banks operating in Ocala and Ilarion County provide those 
areas with reasonably complete banking services. The major improvements 

3429 
-6-
contemplated by Applicant uith respect to the services rendered by the 
Proposed subsidiary banks are in the areas of trust services and special-
ized services to the citrus industry. Applicant intends to transfer a 
qualified 
trust officer to-Ocala Bank from its largest subsidiary, and 
Proposes that the bank will 
solicit such business more actively than it 
has done in the past. In addition, Applicant plans to emoloy a specialist 
thoroughly famili ar uith the special problems of financing the citrus in-
dustry, and to make his services available to its subsidiary banks. 
These considerations are consistent uith, and provide some ueight 
iu favor of, approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts con-
tained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 
3(c) 
of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transactions 
v?
ould be in the public interest and that the applications should be approved. 
September 11, 1968 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
OR THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9/11/68 
0ffi< :e Correspor idence
 
D f l t f t
 
September 10 r 1968 
T o _ 
Board of Governors 
Suhient; 
Per Diem for Members 
Frederic Solomon #1 
f # 
J 
-• -• • • -
Jr 
of Advisory Committee. 
The Truth in Lending Act provides that members of the 
Advisory Committee "shall be paid transportation expenses not 
to exceed $100 per diem." 
Members of the Committee will be required to devote 
considerable time to studying the statutes and drafts before the 
September 12-13 meeting, and also considerable time to other 
preparation before other meetings. 
It is recommended that the Board authorize the payment 
of $100 per diem for each day of preparation or attendance at 
meetings, subject to approval of Governor Robertson. 
While preparation time may vary from one member to 
another, it seems desirable ordinarily to pay them some uniform 
amount for preparation except that the Chairman will devote more 
time to preparation and probably should be paid more. 
For the forthcoming meeting each member probably would 
be paid at least $100 for preparation plus $100 for each day of the 
meeting, and the Chairman probably would be paid an additional 
$100 for his extra preparation. 
