MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 8, 1969 
• 
- . \ r 
:c u . 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 8, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

4/8/69 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Keystone Trust 
Company, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, into The Fulton National Bank of 
Lancaster, Lancaster, Pennsylvania. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition existing between Keystone 
Trust Company, Harrisburg, and The Fulton National Bank of Lancaster, 
although there is potential for more competition in view of the fact 
each could expand into the market of the other through de novo branch-
ing. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
Request for hearing. Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas City, 
Missouri, had requested that, in connection with its application to 
become a bank holding company by acquiring two small banks, the Board 
hold a hearing to determine the fairness of a contemplated exchange 
offer. In a memorandum dated April 1, 1969, the Legal Division concurred 
in the recommendation of the General Counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City that the request be denied. A draft letter was attached 
to the memorandum. 
By unanimous vote the Board denied the request for a hearing. 
A copy of the letter sent to Midwest Bancorporation is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
One-bank holding companies. Proposals for one-bank holding 
company legislation had been introduced by Congressman Patman (H.R.6778) 

4/8/69 
-3-
and Senator Proxmire (S. 1052), who had requested the Board's views 
on their respective bills. In memoranda dated April 4 regarding 
H.R. 6778 and April 7 regarding S. 1052 the Legal Division commented 
on the provisions of the bills and recommended positions to be taken 
by the Board. Draft letters to Congressman Patman and Senator Proxmire 
were attached. 
At today's meeting it was agreed that the draft letters would 
be revised to reflect elements of the discussion, and that they would 
be held in abeyance until the Board could consider them in conjunction 
with the staff's analysis of the legislative proposal regarding one-bank 
holding companies drafted by the Treasury Department. 
Section 23A limitations. Counsel for Brenton Banks, Inc., 
Des Moines, Iowa, had asked for the Board's concurrence in its opinion 
that loans by subsidiary banks of the holding company to a wholly-owned 
bank premises subsidiary of another of such banks were exempt from the 
limitations in section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act on loans by banks 
to their affiliates. 
In a memorandum dated February 26, 1969, the Legal Division 
cited reasons in support of its recommendation that the Board concur 
in the opinion of counsel for Brenton Banks. A draft letter was 
attached. The Division also recommended that, in view of the current 
general interest in the application of section 23A, especially as to 

i' >' >1 
(OA, 
4/8/69 
-4-
affiliates within one-bank holding company systems, the Board publish 
an interpretation that would cover several types of loans to affiliates. 
A draft interpretation accompanied the memorandum. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously 
approved the Legal Division's recommendation with respect to the question 
raised by Brenton Banks. A copy of the letter sent to the holding 
company is attached as Item No. 2. It was agreed that the staff would 
confer with the staffs of the agencies comprising the Interagency 
Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation regarding the proposed inter-
pretation and would report to the Board on its conversations. 
Indebtedness reports. In a memorandum dated April 3, 1969, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations reviewed the exchange of 
views between the Board and the Conference of Presidents of the Federal 
Reserve Banks during the last two years with respect to the coverage of 
periodic reports of indebtedness and other matters obtained by the 
Reserve Banks from their officers and employees. In the light of develop-
ments, the Division suggested two alternative approaches concerning 
elements that remained in question in the statement of principles adopted 
by the Conference of Presidents. The Division recommended the first of 
these alternatives, under which (a) the requirement of indebtedness 
reports from employees in positions below Grade 10 would be left optional 
with each Reserve Bank, and (b) questions regarding "political activities' 
and "speculative dealings in securities or commodities" would not be 
included as part of the indebtedness report. 

1 2 2 8 
4/8/69 
-5-
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously 
> ..V, .. 
approved the recommendation of the Division. A letter was sent to the 
Chairman of the Conference of Presidents in the form attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

12ZV 
„ 
Item No. 1 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
4/8/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 10, 1969 
Mr. Clark G. McCorkle, President, 
Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., 
9063 East Gregory Boulevard, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64133 
Dear Mr. McCorkle: 
The Board has received and considered your request, 
dated February 21, 1969, for a hearing before it to provide the 
opportunity to all persons to whom Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., 
proposes to issue securities in connection with its pending appli-
cation under Section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956, to appear and express their views upon the fairness of the 
terms and conditions of the proposed exchange. You advise that this 
hearing is requested in order to bring the proposed exchange within 
the terms of exemption from registration contained in Section 3(a)(10) 
of the Securities Act of 1933. From a preliminary review of Midwest 
Bancorporation, Inc.'s application no unfairness in the proposed 
exchange offers is readily apparent. 
While the Board is aware of the advantages that might be 
afforded Midwest Bancorporation were the requested hearing granted, 
and notes your statement that all stockholders of both banks which 
Midwest Bancorporation, Inc. proposes to acquire have given their 
written or oral acceptance of the offers, the Board does not believe 
that the conduct of such a hearing by it is contemplated by the Bank 
Holding Company Act or by the Board's Regulation Y, promulgated pur-
suant to the Act. Both the mandatory and discretionary hearings 
provided for by the Act and Regulation Y relate to determinations 
called for by the Act and, as stated, not to determinations df the 
nature proposed. Accordingly the Board has declined to grant Bancor-
poration's request for a hearing. 
Very truly yours, 
(sign) Robert P. Forrestal 
ffets? 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

\ °'10 
BOARD DF G O V E R N • R S 
OF THE 
item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/8/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1969. 
Samuel G. O'Brien, Esq., 
Nymaster, Goode, McLaughlin, Emery & O'Brien, 
900 Register and Tribune Building, 
Des Moines, Iowa. 
50309 
Dear Mr. O'Brien: 
This is in response to your letter of December 5, 1968, 
asking that the Board concur in your opinion that a proposed loan 
by subsidiary banks of Brenton Banks, Inc., to another subsidiary 
bank's wholly-owned subsidiary corporation that engages solely in 
holding and operating the bank premises of such bank is exempt from 
the limitations on loans to affiliates set forth in section 23A of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
The basis for your opinion is that the sixth paragraph of 
section 23A exempts from the limitations of that section "stock, 
bonds, debentures, or other obligations of any company of the kinds 
described in section 4(c)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act". Sec-
tion 4(c)(1) refers to a company "holding or operating properties 
used wholly or substantially by any banking subsidiary of such bank 
holding company in the operations of such banking subsidiary". 
In reaching the conclusion that, on the basis of those 
statutory provisions, the proposed loan to the bank premises corpo-
ration is exempt, it is necessary to interpret "other obligations" 
as used in the sixth paragraph of section 23A to include "ordinary" 
loan obligations as well as security-type obligations other than 
those specifically referred to in such section. The Board considers 
that such an interpretation is legally sound. 
Accordingly, the Board concurs in your opinion that the 
proposed loan (which appears to be in the nature of a refinancing) 
is exempt from the limitations and requirements of section 23A. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GDVERNDRB 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
4/8/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 10, 1969 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, 
Chairman of the Conference of Presidents, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690. 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board has accepted the statement of principles set by 
the September 9, 1968 Conference of Presidents establishing criteria 
for determining the Federal Reserve Bank employees who should be sub-
ject to the reporting requirement referred to in the Board's letter 
S-1907 of February 10, 1964. 
This action was taken, however, with the understanding (a) 
that each Federal Reserve Bank will be responsible for including, in 
this reporting requirement, employees in lower grades as deemed nec-
essary or desirable, particularly to cover those who have regular 
access to confidential information and those who might, by reason of 
their work assignments, be responsible for controls on the handling of 
valuable assets; and (b) that all officers and employees will be re-
minded at least once a year of the rules regarding political activities 
and speculative dealings. 
Yours very truly, 
(sign) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
