Minutes for
 
J u l Y 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2789 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 13, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell, Shay, and Hooff, 
Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Koch, Deputy Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Leavitt and Egertson, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office 
of the Secretary 
Messrs. Noble, Porter, and Via of the 
Legal Division 
Mrs. Fenster and Mr. Kichline of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ly on of the Division of Examinations 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporat ion on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of The Peoples Bank, Lynchburg, South Carolina, into The 
Peoples Bank of South Carolina, Inc., Florence, South Carolina, was 
•g£proved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclu-
sion of the report stated that the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 

2 7 9 0 
7/13/67 
-2-
Requests of Marine Midland Corporation (Item No. 1). There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated July 11, 1967, from the Legal 
Division regarding a request by Marine Midland Corporation, Buffalo, 
New York, for withdrawal of its application to acquire voting shares 
of First Westchester National Bank, New Rochelle, New York, inasmuch 
as the State Banking Department had denied the corresponding applica-
tion filed with the State. The applicant also requested that, since 
the application would remain in the Board's records and would be avail-
able for public inspection, specified parts be deleted as being confi-
dential. The parts so specified, comprising about 25 per cent of the 
total number of pages, were in addition to the material deleted by the 
Board's staff in reviewing the application, at the time it was received, 
for purposes of preparing it for inspection by the public as provided 
in the Board's Rules Regarding Information, Submittals, and Requests. 
The Legal Division recommended that the request for withdrawal 
of the application be granted, but that the request for confidential 
treatment of additional material be denied. In support of the latter 
recommendation it was pointed out that, in accordance with the usual 
Procedure, at the time the application was filed Marine Midland had 
requested confidentiality for certain information it contained. 
The 
Board's staff had agreed that that request was warranted and also had 
determined that no other material in the application required such 
treatment. Since that time, the non-confidential portion of the 

279.1 
7/13/67 
-3-
application had been available for inspection by the public. The 
Legal Division believed that confidentiality of material contained in 
an application did not depend on the circumstance of approval or denial 
the initial review was made in the light of the possibility of either 
decision. Therefore, no reason was seen for altering the earlier judg-
ment . 
The recommendations, in which the Division of Examinations 
concurred, were reflected in an attached draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York. 
Governor Daane inquired whether the application had in fact 
been inspected by members of the public, in response to which it was 
indicated that while it was not possible to state with certainty that 
it had or had not been inspected, the application had been available 
both at the Board's offices and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
for inspection by any person who requested access to it. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that a more basic question might be 
Presented, namely, whether under the newly-effective Public Information 
Act, which presumably might result in greater use by the public of 
inspection privileges, different standards should be followed in review-
ing applications preparatory to making them available to the public. 
Mr. O'Connell's response indicated that the availability of 
material under the Public Information Act did not seem to require any 
basic change from the standards applied since 1965 when the Board 

2792 
l/ll/bl 
-4-
amended its Rules to provide for availability to the public of bank 
holding company and merger applications. Certainly, confidentiality 
did not seem warranted under the Public Information Act for the addi-
tional material now specified by Marine Midland any more than it had 
been warranted under the procedures established under the Board's 
Rules. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that there might be some question 
regarding the present request in that the application had never 
reached the stage of Board consideration; it appeared to him that only 
a competitor of Marine Midland would be concerned, and therefore it 
was a private corporate interest rather than the public interest that 
would be served. 
Mr. O'Connell expressed the view that the application should 
be construed to be part of the Board's records, and he responded in 
the affirmative to a question by Governor Mitchell whether he believed 
it was good public policy to make the application available. 
The letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York was then 
.approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Messrs. Noble and Lyon then withdrew from the meeting. 
Loan "production offices" of United California Bank (Item No. 2). 
In 1965 and 1966, in connection with the acquisition by United California 
Bank, Los Angeles, California, of the assets and mortgage servicing con-
tracts of two mortgage companies, the Board approved the establishment 

7/13/67 
-5-
of several branches, the activities of which would be limited to the 
negotiating, processing, and servicing of real estate mortgage loans. 
It was subsequently learned during the course of a regular examination 
of United California Bank that nine "production offices" were operated 
in conjunction with the limited purpose branches of the bank's mortgage 
divisions. In March 1967 the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
inquired whether these "production offices" were branches of the bank 
within the meaning of applicable Federal law. 
The analysis and conclusions of the Board's Legal Division were 
Presented in a distributed memorandum dated July 11, 1967. 
(The memo-
randum also dealt with an essentially parallel question relating to the 
Proposed purchase by Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, of a mortgage 
company and operation of similar offices in connection with the business 
so to be acquired; the Board's discussion of the Union Bank matter is 
described in a subsequent entry in these minutes.) 
The memorandum brought out that the "production offices" of United 
California Bank were open to the public and staffed by employees of the 
bank. The offices regularly engaged in the business of soliciting bor-
rowers, negotiating terms, and processing applications for real property 
loans that were placed with various institutional investors, such as life 
insurance companies, savings banks, and other commercial banks. The loan 
funds were initially advanced by the bank (with few exceptions). 
Terms 
were arranged, and loan applications were executed at the "production 

7/13/67 
-6-
offic es," but the other documents, such as notes and mortgages 
were 
completed at authorized offices of the bank (or at an office of a 
title insurance or escrow company). Loan proceeds were disbursed 
through authorized offices of the bank rather than through the "pro-
duction offices," and the latter did not service loans nor did they 
have authority to commit the bank on loan contracts. 
The Legal Division applied to the activities of the offices 
the test of the language of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act to 
the effect that the term "branch" shall be held to include any office 
"at which deposits are received, or checks paid, or money lent." 
It 
was noted that it was the Board's position that the functions there 
enumerated were by way of illustration and not of limitation. 
However, 
it was the view of the Division that the "production offices" of United 
California Bank were engaged in activities relating to the lending of 
money, and therefore could be deemed to fall within the statutory marks 
of "branch." 
The memorandum also drew comparisons between the nature of the 
offices in question and those operated by a former State member bank, 
Mercantile Trust Company, St. Louis, Missouri, through a wholly-owned 
mortgage company subsidiary. In 1964 the Board had determined that 
the offices in question in the Mercantile Trust case constituted branch 
operation. It was the Legal Division's judgment that the rationale of 
that ruling pointed to a finding that United California Bank's "produc-
tion offices" were engaged in branch activity. Attached to the 

tC> 4 > 
7/13/67 
-7-
memorandum was a draft of letter that would inform the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco that United California Bank must obtain branch 
authorization for those offices. 
(The Reserve Bank would process the 
applications under the Board's delegation of authority.) 
After summary comments by Mr. Via, Governor Maisel said it 
appeared to him that the primary question presented was how to define 
the point at which money was lent. He believed the circumstances of 
the Mercantile Trust case were somewhat different. The offices of 
United California Bank did not service loans, and he was not sure 
whether the absence of that function would make a basic difference in 
the concept of lending. At his instance there ensued a discussion of 
the possible relevance to the determination of branch operation of 
other arrangements frequently used by banks, such as the offices main-
tained in Washington by various large banks to negotiate with such 
°rganizations as the Export-Import Bank and embassies of foreign govern-
ments . 
Mr. Hexter commented on the widely varying arrangements used 
b y banks 
to conduct business away from their head offices. At one 
extreme was the office that offered most of the usual banking services 
and typically occupied the first floor of a commercial building; there 
was no doubt that such an office constituted a branch. At the other 
extreme were bank representatives who would travel to various cities 
to confer with the bank's national customers; the Board had held that 

2798 
7/13/67 
-8-
the activities of such representatives did not constitute branch opera-
tion. Between these extremes there were numerous variations, and in 
the middle of the range it was difficult to determine whether or not 
branch operations were involved. After comments regarding the rationale 
of laws regarding branch banking, Mr. Hexter noted that as far as com-
petitors were concerned there was little difference whether mortgage 
loans were initiated and all subsequent steps executed at an outlying 
office or whether only the preliminary steps were taken there and the 
matter then referred to the head office for approval and disbursement 
of funds. Therefore, it seemed to the Legal Division that the extent 
of the activity of United California Bank's "production offices" would 
justify determining that they involved branch operations. 
Governor Brimmer raised the question whether, if the offices 
in question were determined to constitute branch operation, competitors 
of United California Bank should not be given an opportunity to pro-
test; when notice was published that applications for branches had been 
received and protests were registered, the Division of Examinations 
took account of those protests in its recommendations to the Board. 
The ensuing discussion included observations that the "production 
offices" of United California Bank, being already in operation, repre-
sented a somewhat different situation from applications for the estab-
lishment of new branches. Also, protests against the establishment of 
branches in California were rare. 

2797 
7/13/67 
-9-
After further discussion the letter to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of San Francisco was approved unanimously. A copy is attached as Item 
No_^__2. It was understood that the ruling embodied in this action would 
be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Banks and published in the Fed-
eral Register. 
Proposal of Union Bank to purchase mortgage business (Items 3 
g-
nd 4). On July 7, 1967, the Board gave preliminary consideration, on 
the basis of a distributed memorandum dated July 5 from the Division 
of Examinations, to the proposal of Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, 
to acquire the assets and servicing contracts of Western Mortgage Cor-
poration through the purchase for cash of all of the outstanding shares 
of the corporation. Under the proposal, upon acquisition by Union Bank 
°f the stock of the mortgage company, the company would be dissolved 
and its assets distributed to Union Bank. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
San Francisco had recommended that, since Union Bank's capital and 
asset positions were not regarded as entirely satisfactory, approval 
°f the proposed purchase be made contingent upon the immediate sale of 
n o 
l e s s than $15 million in subordinated capital notes by Union Bank. 
Several questions were involved in the proposal, one of which 
W a s 
t h e status of eight offices of Western Mortgage Corporation that 
Union Bank expected to continue to operate. Since the Legal Division 
was in process of developing conclusions in regard to a similar situa-
tion relating to "production offices" of United California Bank, further 

2798 
7/13/67 
-10-
consideratiori of the Union Bank proposal was deferred to permit evalua-
tion of it in the light of the Legal Division's findings. 
(The United 
California Bank matter is discussed in the preceding entry in these 
minutes.) 
There had now been distributed a memorandum of July 11, 1967, 
from the Division of Examinations stating that the Legal Division had 
concluded (in accordance with its view in the United California Bank 
matter) that the eight offices of Western Mortgage Corporation would 
constitute branches of Union Bank requiring Board approval. The Divi-
sion of Examinations recommended that the branches be approved, pro-
vided that their activities were limited to negotiating, processing, 
and servicing real estate mortgages. Attached to the memorandum was 
a draft of letter to Union Bank that would grant that approval and 
would also reflect the position proposed to be taken by the Board in 
regard to the several other questions involved in the proposed purchase. 
During the July 7 discussion the Board had raised no question 
regarding a staff recommendation that the Board interpose no objection 
to acquisition of the mortgage company from the point of view of sec-
tion 5136 of the Revised Statutes. It was the view of the Legal Divi-
sion that, although section 5136 forbids the purchase by a member bank 
for its own account of any corporate stock, that prohibition is aimed 
a t the acquisition and retention of stock rather than the momentary 
acquisition of stock where the company will be immediately liquidated. 

27m 
l/U/bl 
-11-
The Board also had taken no exception to the view of the Divi-
sion of Examinations regarding the applicability of standard condition 
of membership numbered one, under which, except with the permission of 
the Board, a State member bank may not cause or permit any change to 
be made in the general character of its business or in the scope of the 
corporate powers exercised by it at the time of admission to membership 
A review of past cases of acquisition by State member banks of mortgage 
servicing organizations seemed to indicate that application of the con-
dit ion of membership was a question of degree. In view of the relative 
size of Union Bank and the extent of its present mortgage investment 
division operations, the Division of Examinations was of the opinion 
that the Board's approval was not required for the proposed purchase 
under the first standard condition of membership. 
A third question related to the period during which Union Bank 
would be required to amortize the $12 million premium it would pay for 
the mortgage corporation in excess of net book value of assets. Union 
Bank proposed a twenty-year amortization; the California State Banking 
Department had expressed the view that the period should be limited to 
twelve years in the absence of significant reasons for a longer term; 
and at the meeting on July 7 Governor Robertson had supported recommen-
dations of the San Francisco Reserve Bank and of the Board's Division 
°f Examinations that a ten-year amortization period be required. How-
ever, discussion at today's meeting developed a consensus in favor of 
permitting a twelve-year amortization period. 

2800 
7/13/67 
-12-
Discussion of the question of amortization of the premium 
included comments by Governors Mitchell and Maisel regarding the rela-
tionship of that question to the over-all problem of establishing 
values of investments by bank holding companies and by Edge and agree-
ment corporations. It was noted that staff study of the latter ques-
tion had not yet resulted in recommendations to the Board. 
Governor Maisel inquired how one could reconcile the facts 
that, whereas normally the Board did not approve the establishment of 
branches unless the State banking authorities had previously approved, 
in this case the offices that would be approved as branches were not 
recognized as branches by the State. Staff responses indicated that 
in a number of States, especially where branch banking as such was 
prohibited, there were nonetheless limited purpose offices of banks 
that might be regarded as branches by Federal authorities. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he was unwilling to approve the 
establishment of branches at the eight locations of the mortgage corpo-
ration; there was no application for branches pending before the Board, 
and it seemed to him that until such an application was presented, no 
decision could be reached. A different treatment had been accorded 
United California Bank in regard to the determination that its "produc-
tion offices" constituted branches, in that the San Francisco Reserve 
Bank would receive and process applications under the Board's delega-
tion of authority, approving them unless it should find some reason to 
the contrary. 

28oi 
7/13/67 
-13-
In the ensuing discussion attention was called to the fact 
that United California Bank had previously purchased the mortgage 
businesses to which the "production offices" were adjunct, whereas 
the branch status of the eight offices concerned in the Union Bank 
matter was an element of the over-all proposal to acquire a mortgage 
business. Also, the approval of the branches in the United California 
Bank case came within the scope of the Board's delegation of authority 
to the Reserve Bank, whereas approval of branches for Union Bank 
remained a matter for the Board in the light of the bank's less than 
satisfactory capital position. 
The suggestion was then made that the Board specifically dele-
gate to the San Francisco Reserve Bank the authority to receive and 
Pass upon applications from Union Bank for the establishment of branches 
at the eight office locations of the mortgage company. Governor Brimmer 
indicated that that arrangement would meet his objection. Other mem-
bers of the Board also expressed agreement, it being understood that 
authority to act would be given to the Reserve Bank in a separate 
letter. 
Letters to Union Bank and to the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco were then approved unanimously in the form attached as 
-Items 3 and 4. 
Messrs. O'Connell, Shay, Hooff, Egertson, Porter, and Via 
then withdrew from the meeting. 

2802 
7/13/67 
-14-
Revenue bond underwriting. On May 25, 1967, the Board dis-
cussed procedures recommended to implement a study, requested by 
Chairman Proxmire of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of 
the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, of the annual amount of 
savings, if any, that might accrue to State and local governments as 
a result of enactment of S. 1306, a bill that would give member banks 
limited underwriting powers with respect to revenue bonds. The Board 
had held in abeyance, pending completion of the study, a report on the 
bill requested by Chairman Sparkman of the full Committee. 
There had now been distributed a preliminary draft of the 
report of the study. It was intended that the report consist of a 
main statement of conclusions and findings, plus four appendices. 
However, only one of the attachments had been completed so far. 
Governor Daane suggested that discussion of the report in sub-
stance be deferred until Chairman Martin was able to participate. He 
(Governor Daane) had reservations regarding the basic approach of the 
study in its preliminary form. 
There was agreement with Governor Daane's suggestion for defer-
r a l , although during the ensuing discussion members of the Board made 
comments on technical or editorial aspects of the report for the assis-
tance of the staff in completing the presentation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

28o3 
7/13/67 
-15-
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, interposing no objection to the estab-
lishment of an additional branch in Belgium 
on June 5, 1967, at 166 Avenue Louise, 
Brussels. 
A letter was also sent today to First National 
City Bank, New York, New York, acknowledging 
receipt of notice of its intent to establish 
an additional branch in Belgium, to be located 
on the Chaussee de Waterloo, Brussels. 
Acting in the absence of Governor Robertson, 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf of 
the Board memoranda recommending the follow-
ing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
.Salary increases 
Susie T. Oros, Senior Accountant, Office of the Controller, from 
$9,523 to $10,045 per annum, effective July 2, 1967. 
Benjamin R. Reading, Accountant, Office of the Controller, from 
$8,155 to $9,007 per annum, effective July 2, 1967. 
On July 13, 1967, action was taken on behalf 
of the Board under delegated authority as 
indicated by the following letter, a copy of 
which is attached under the item number indi-
cated: 
-Sz the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Item No. 
Letter to Hillsdale State Savings Bank, 
5 
Hillsdale, Michigan, approving an invest-
ment in bank premises. 

2 8 < 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/13/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
''ftAUxCf.-
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P • N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 14, 1967 
Mr. James H. Oltman, Manager, 
Bank Examinations Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Oltman: 
This is ir reply to your letter of June 26, 1967, enclosing 
a letter of June 22 from Sullivan & Cromwell, counsel for Marine 
Midland Corporation, Buffalo, New York, requesting on behalf of Marine 
that its application, pursuant to section 3 of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, for the Board's prior approval to acquire the voting shares of 
First Westchester National Bank, New Rochelle, New York, be withdrawn 
from consideration by die Board. Counsel's letter also requests that 
certain data and statements contained in the application be accorded 
confidential treatment in the Board's files. 
The Board has granted the request on behalf of Applicant and 
has effected removal of the application regarding First Westchester 
National Bank from consideration. 
Regarding Applicant's request for confidential treatment of 
designated portions of the application, the Board has determined that 
the extent to which the original application was given confidential * 
treatment constitutes the maximum degree of confidentiality that should 
be accorded the application. Applicant's original request for confi-
dential treatment of portions of the application and the Board's action 
thereon, contemplated, of course, either approval or denial action. In 
its deleted form, the application has been a matter of public record for 
some weeks. A major portion of the material which Applicant now asks be 
accorded confidential treatment has had full public disclosure. Under 
the foregoing circumstances, and in view of the Board's judgment as to 
the non-confidential nature of the material made the subject of Appli-
c a n t ^ request for confidential treatment, the Board declines to grant 
the request for confidential treatment as set forth in counsel's letter 
of June 22, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2805 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No. 2 
OF THE 
1/12,/bl 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 14, 1967. 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 
94120. 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
This is in response to your inquiry of March 13, 1967, 
concerning whether the nine so-called "production offices" of United 
California Bank, operated in conjunction with the activities of 
two of its mortgage divisions, are branches of the bank within the 
meaning of applicable Federal law. 
The Board understands that the "production offices", which 
are open to the public, are staffed by employees of the bank who 
regularly engage in the business of soliciting borrowers, negotiating 
terms and processing applications for real property loans that are 
Placed with various institutional investors. The loan funds are 
initially advanced by the bank (with but few exceptions). Terms are 
arranged and loan applications are executed at the "production offices", 
but the other documents, such as notes and mortgages, are completed at 
authorized offices of the bank (or at an office of a title insurance 
°r escrow company, in a few cases). Loan proceeds are also disbursed 
through the bank's authorized offices and not through the "production 
offices". The latter offices do not "service" loans and have no 
authority to commit the bank on loan contracts. 
Section 5155(f) of the Revised Statutes (12 U.S.C. § 36), 
made applicable to member State banks by section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. §321), provides that the term branch "shall be 
held to include any branch bank, branch office, branch agency, additional 
office. or any branch place of business . . . at which deposits are 
received, or checks paid, or money lent." 
It appears that the bulk of 
the activities of the "production offices" relates to the lending of 
money by the bank (although the loans are thereafter sold to others), 
•tn the Board's opinion, the statutory enumeration of three specific 
functions that establish branch status is not meant to be exclusive 
but to assure that offices at which any of those three major functions 
ls performed are regarded as branches by the bank regulatory authorities. 

Mr. Irwin L. Jennings 
- 2 -
2808 
In the judgment of the Board, an office through which loan 
transactions are initiated, the terms of loans negotiated, and other 
steps that lead to completed loan transactions are carried on by a 
member bank is a branch within the meaning of section 9 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and section 5155 of the Revised Statutes. The facts that 
final approval of loans arranged at other offices emanates from the 
home office or authorized branches, and that checks for the proceeds 
of loans are issued from such authorized offices, are not controlling 
for this purpose, in view of the objectives of the cited statutes to 
permit significant banking services to be made available only at 
governmentally-authorized offices. Put another way, the fact that, 
for purposes of contract law, a loan may be regarded as "made" at the 
place and time of legal "acceptance" or "approval" does not govern the 
interpretation of these statutes. If the contrary were true, member 
banks could conduct their operations at numerous locations not approved 
by supervisory authorities by the simple device of performing the final 
step in each transaction at an authorized office of the bank, thereby 
substantially nullifying the legislative purpose. 
You are requested to advise United California Bank that it 
must obtain branch authorizations for the "production offices". 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
' • 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2807 
BDARD DF GDVERNDR5 
item No. 3 
• F THE 
7/13/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 13, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
Hie Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
interposes no objection to the proposed acquisition of Western 
Mortgage Corporation, Los Angeles, California, by Union Bank, 
Los Angeles, California, provided the mortgage company is imme-
diately placed in liquidation by a simultaneous transaction, 
and provided further that the premium over the net book value 
of assets acquired be amortized over a period not to exceed 12 
% 
years and that the proposed sale of $15 million in capital 
debentures be completed before or shortly after the proposed 
acquisition. 
It is the Board's understanding that Union Bank con-
templates the continued operation of the present offices of 
Western Mortgage Corporation upon consummation of the proposed 
acquisition. The Board has concluded that the operation of 
such offices by Union Bank involves the establishment of branches 
requiring branch authorizations. Your application to operate 
such offices will be received and acted upon by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2808 
BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
7/13/67 
ADDRESS O F F I C I A L 
C D B R E 5 P D N D E N C E 
TO THE BOARD 
July 13, 1967. 
Mr. Irwin L. Jennings, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Jennings: 
There is enclosed, for delivery to the applicant bank, 
the Board's letter interposing no objection to the acquisition 
of Western Mortgage Corporation, Los Angeles, California, by 
Union Bank, Los Angeles, California, subject to certain conditions. 
Two copies of the letter are enclosed for your use. 
The Board has concluded that the offices now operated by 
Western Mortgage Corporation and to be operated by Union Bank upon 
consummation of the transaction constitute branches requiring Board 
approval, regardless of whether loan funds are disbursed from such 
offices. The Board hereby delegates to your bank authority to 
approve such limited service branches if their establishment seem 
warranted. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
'Enclosures 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

• S 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
*30 SOUTl \ LA SALLE STREET 
" 
1 
N ° 
5 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60090 
7 / 1 3 / 6 7 
(312) HA 7-2320 
July 13, 1967 
M r . 
H a r o l d 
H t d l e y , 
P r e s i d e n t 
H i l l s d a l e 
S t a t e 
S a v i n g s B ? . r J : 
Hillsdale, Michigan' k$2h2 ' 
I f c a r r i r . 
R i d l e y : 
O n b e h a l f 
o f 
t h e 
S e a r d 
o f 
G o v e r n o r s , 
a c t i n g 
u n d e r 
d e l e g a t e d 
a u t h o r i t y , 
t h i s 
B a n k h a s 
a p p r o v e d 
a n 
a d d i t i o n a l 
i n v e s t m e n t 
i n 
b a n k 
p r e m i s e s 
o f 
$ 5 1 9 , 0 0 0 
b y 
y o u r 
b a n k 
f o r 
t h e 
p u r p o s e 
o f 
c o n s t r u c t i n g 
a n e t / b a n k 
b u i l d i n g . 
V e r y 
t i i i l y 
y o u r s , 
^ ~c * ' ''-:)••-> z-y 
L e l a n d 
? . o s s 
V i c e 
P r e s i d e n t 
0 0 - M r . 
M e r r i t t 
S h e r m a n 
E x a m i n e r ' s 
f i l e 
, , ..,; 
':f>'4' »'.» • A 
is'/... 
•••!.:. 
i 
