rA 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 12, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 12, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Eaton of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Weiner, 
Baker, Ettin, Fisher, Peret, Stone, Trueblood, 
and Wetzel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Ghiardi, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, 
Bryant, Dunn, Karcz, Pizer, Roxon, and Smith 
of the Division of International Finance 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of international 
and domestic business and financial developments, the reports being 
based to some extent on materials that had been distributed in prepara-
tion for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the Committee's 
files. 

4 <J 
8/12/68 
-2-
Following discussion based on the staff presentations, members 
of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, and Partee 
withdrew from the meeting, as did Mr. Bernard and Miss Eaton, and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Sanders, and Via of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Golden and King of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sanford and Miss McShane of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Report on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Sequoia National Bank of 
San Mateo County, Redwood City, California, into The Bank of California, 
National Association, San Francisco, California. The conclusion con-
tained in the proposed report read as follows: 
While The Bank of California, National Association, 
San Francisco, and Sequoia National Bank of San Mateo 
County, Redwood City, both operate in the San Francisco-
Oakland Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area, the latter 
serves a small segment of this market and competition 
between them is limited. However, there is potential for 
increased competition between proponents in view of the 
State's branch banking statutes. The overall competitive 
effect of the merger would be slightly adverse. 

8/12/68 
-3-
In discussion of the proposed report, questions were raised 
regarding the selection of the relevant market area. The staff was 
requested to review the report in light of these questions. 
Doylestown merger cases (Items 1-5). There had been distrib-
uted drafts of orders and a revised statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on July 16, 1968, of the applications of Girard Trust Bank 
and The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to merge with The 
Doylestown National Bank & Trust Company and with Doylestown Trust 
Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, respectively. 
After agreement with a suggestion by Governor Brimmer that the 
statement include a reference to the field investigation conducted in 
these cases, the issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1-3. A copy 
of the concurring statement of Governor Brimmer is attached as Item 
No. 4; a copy of the dissenting statement of Governor Robertson is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
News dissemination practices (Item No. 6). Pursuant to the 
discussion at the meeting on August 9, 1968, there had been distributed 
a revised draft of letter to Chairman Patman of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee in connection with a newspaper article relating to 
news dissemination practices of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Following a review of the background of this matter by Governor 
Robertson and Mr. Molony, particularly for the benefit of Chairman Martin, 

8/12/68 
-4-
who had been absent when the subject was discussed previously, Governor 
Brimmer explained why he had expressed reservations about the earlier 
draft letter presented to the Board. He had felt that a full report 
should be made to the Board by the staff on the public information 
procedures in effect at the New York Reserve Bank, with particular 
reference to the President's press conferences and the regular weekly 
financial briefings. Until this was done, he would have preferred to 
withhold a reply to Mr. Patman. 
Mr. Molony replied that the guidelines used by the New York 
Reserve Bank for its press briefings could be distributed to the Board. 
In his view, however, the letter in its present form could go forward 
to Mr. Patman, particularly in view of the fact that it was, in effect, 
simply an attempt to explain the facts. 
Chairman Martin agreed that the letter should go forward. As 
to the press conferences conducted by the President of the New York 
Bank, he suggested that Mr. Hayes could be asked to explain to the 
Board, on some appropriate occasion, how those conferences were con-
ducted. The broader question of System public relations policies 
should, he felt, be under continuing review, and the staff could be 
asked to study the problem. 
Governor Brimmer stated that he would like an assessment, in 
contrast to a package of documentation, since questions seemed to 
arise periodically, for example, with regard to the New York Bank's 

307t> 
8/12/68 
-5-
regular Thursday briefings. His basic concern would continue, apart 
from the question raised by Mr. Patman. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the study by the staff include 
consideration of the possibility of issuing a statement immediately 
following each meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
After additional discussion, the Board approved the letter to 
Mr. Patman in the form attached hereto as Item No. 6, with the under-
standing that the staff would continue to work on the general problem 
of news dissemination procedures. 
Dealers' reserves and differential accounts (Items 7 and 8). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated July 30, 1968, from the 
Legal Division regarding the classification of "dealers' reserves" and 
"differential accounts" as deposits for reserve purposes under the 
Board's Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks. 
In outstanding interpretations the Board had held that "dealers' 
reserves" were deposits on which member banks must maintain reserves, 
but that "differential accounts" were not deposits on which reserves 
were required. It was the opinion of the Legal Division, for reasons 
specified in the memorandum, that the distinction between the two 
types of accounts was artificial. Specifically, it was recommended 
that the Board now hold that neither dealers' reserve accounts nor 
differential accounts are deposits for reserve purposes. Before 
announcing a change in its position, however, the Board might want to 
refer the matter to the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation. 

<n, 
OU 4 i 
8/12/68 
-6-
Also, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had requested 
the Board's views as to whether a contract such as that between the 
First National Bank of Chicago and Sears Roebuck and Company was a 
dealers' reserve account and, if so, whether the Board would waive the 
penalty for deficient reserves against the bank for its unintentional 
failure to maintain reserves. 
The Board concluded that it would be unnecessary to refer the 
draft interpretation to the Coordinating Committee, particularly since 
there had been consultation with staff of the FDIC. The interpreta-
tion was then approved unanimously; a copy is attached as Item No. 7. 1/ 
It was further agreed that no penalties should be assessed against the 
First National Bank of Chicago for deficient reserves. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago requesting it to so 
inform the member bank is attached as Item No. 8. 
Director appointment. Reference was made to the vacancy on the 
Board of Directors of the Memphis Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
St. Louis caused by the resignation of James S. Williams. Two candi-
dates, both from Arkansas, were suggested for consideration. 
The Board appointed Alvin Huffman, Jr., President, Huffman 
Brothers Lumber Company, Blytheville, Arkansas, as a director of the 
Memphis Branch, to succeed Mr. Williams, for the unexpired portion of 
the term ending December 31, 1970, subject to ascertainment that 
Mr. Huffman would accept appointment if tendered. 
T1 Publication of the interpretation was deferred to permit the 
Comptroller of the Currency and the Chairman of the FDIC to 
express their views; they interposed no objection. 

3078 
8/12/68 
-7-
Secretary's Note: It having been ascertained 
that Mr. Huffman would accept, an appointment 
telegram was sent to him on August 13, 1968. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: The following items were 
approved today on behalf of the Board by 
Governor Sherrill: 
Requests for permission to engage in 
outside activities 
Robert Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of 
International Finance, to serve as critic of an essay on the subject 
of "The Dollar" for The Brookings Institution. 
Frederic Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and Regula-
tion, to deliver a lecture on bank capital at the Graduate School of 
Banking, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, in August 1968 
while on annual leave. 
On August 12, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
Letter to Chemical Bank New York Trust 
9 
Company, New York, New York, approving 
the establishment of a branch in the 
Village of Thornwood. 
Letter to Endicott Trust Company, Endicott, 
10 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Binghamton. 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of 
11 
Southern New York, Elmira, New York, approv-
ing the establishment of an in-town branch. 

3079 
8/12/68 
-8-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in Towson and an investment 
in bank premises incident thereto. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Letter to The Louisville Trust Company, 
Louisville, Kentucky, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch 
in the K-Mart Shopping Center, Jefferson 
County. 
Item No. 
12 
13 
Secretary 

3080 
Item No. 1 
8/12/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of ' 
GIRARD TRUST BANK 
1 
for approval of merger with 
1 
The Doylestown National Bank 
1 
& Trust Company 
* 
1 
* 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Girard Trust 
Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a State member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that 
bank and The Doylestown National Bank & Trust Company, Doylestown, 
Pennsylvania, under the charter and title of Girard Trust Bank, As 
an incident to the merger, the five offices of The Doylestown National 
Bank & Trust Company would become branches of the resulting bank. Notice 
of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

-2-
3081 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, and the information received at and in connection 
with the public proceeding which was ordered in this matter (33 Federal 
Register 8367) pursuant to the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 
262.3(f)(3)). 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
* 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of August, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 2 
8/12/68 
UNITED STATES OF AFRICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIDELITY BANK ' 
for approval of merger with 
Doylestown Trust Company 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and 
Doylestown Trust Company, Doylestown, Pennsylvania, under the charter 
and title of The Fidelity Bank, As an incident to the merger, the sole 
office of Doylestown Trust Company would become a branch of the resulting 
bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has 
been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

3083 
-13-
and the Attotney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, and the information received at and in connection 
with the public proceeding which was ordered in this matter (33 Federal 
Register 8367) pursuant to the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 
262.3(f)(3)), 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 12th day of August, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman liar tin and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson, 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3084 
Item No. 3 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
8/12/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY GIRARD TRUST BAUIC 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE DOYLESTOWN NATIONAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY 
ADD APPLICATION BY THE FIDELITY BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
DOYLESTOWN TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Girard Trust Ban!;, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Girard"), 
with total deposits of $1.3 billion, has applied, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1020(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
of the merger of that bank with The Doylestown National Bank & Trust 
Company, Doylestoun, Pennsylvania ("Doylestoun national"), which has 
total deposits of $33 million."'' The banks would merge under the charter 
and name of Girard, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
As an incident to the merger, the five offices of Doylestown National 
would become branches of Girard, increasing the number of its offices 
to 66. 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Fidelity"), 
with total deposits of $1 billion, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
ilerger Act (12 U.G.C. 1820(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank with Doylestown Trust Company, Doylestown, 
Pennsylvania ("Doylestown Trust"), which has total deposits of $22 
million. The banks would merge under the charter and name of Fidelity, 
1/ Deposit figures are as of December 1967» 

3085 
-2-
which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to 
the merger, the sole office of Doylestown Trust would become a branch 
of Fidelity, increasing the number of its offices to 63. 
To assist in the consideration of these applications, the 
various aspects of which are quite similar, a comprehensive field 
investigation was conducted. For the same purpose a public oral 
presentation before members of the Board was ordered (33 Federal 
Register 8367) and held in each case, pursuant to section 262.3(f)(3) 
of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR § 262.3(f)(3)); at each pro-
ceeding, representatives of the two banks proposing to merge presented 
views and other data in support of approval, and submitted to question-
ing by members of the Board, There were no other appearances, or 
requests to appear, at either proceeding. 
Competition. - Doylestown National and Doylestown Trust are 
headquartered in Doylestown Township (1960 population 3,800), which is 
located about 25 miles north of Philadelphia in the center of Bucks 
County (1960 population 309,000); Doylestown serves as the seat of 
government for the county. It is estimated that about 28,000 people 
reside in the Doylestown area. Doylestown Trust has no branch offices. 
Doylestown National operates four branch offices: one in Doylestown; 
one in Buckingham, four miles east of Doylestown; and one each in 
Harrington and Warminster, about five miles and nine oiles, respectively, 
south of Doylestown. 
Girard, the third largest bank headquartered in Philadelphia, 
operates three branch offices in Bucks County: one at Middletown, in 
the southern portion of the county, 11 miles from the Warminster office 

3 0 8 6 
-2-
of Doylestown National; one at Riegelsville, in the northernmost corner 
of the county, 21 miles from Doylestown; and one in Davisville, about 
three miles from the Warminster office of Doylestown National. In large 
part because of the distances separating the Iliddletown and Riegelsville 
offices of Girard from offices of Doylestown National, and the presence 
of offices of other banks in the intervening and adjacent areas, there 
is no meaningful existing or potential competition between Girard and 
Doylestown National through these- offices. There is potential for some 
competition between Girardfs Davisville office, which was opened in 
November 1967, and the Warminster office of Doylestown National; however, 
there are offices of several other large banks nearby, 
Doylestown National derives about 80 per cent of its deposits 
and loans from the central area of Bucks County, and most of the remainder 
of its business from other areas of the county. Approximately half of 
the bank's loans are secured by real estate, and about half of its deposits 
are time deposits. The deposits Girard derives from central Bucks County 
equal less than 6 per cent of Doylestown National's deposits, if the 
account of one large corporate customer with Girard is omitted. Similarly, 
the loans Girard derives from Central Bucks County equal about 6 per cent 
of Doylestown National's loans, if one large-line loan that is far beyond 
the capacity of Doylestown National is omitted. 
Fidelity, the fourth largest bank headquartered in Philadelphia, 
operates 8ix branch offices in the southern portion of Bucks County, The 
nearest Bucks County office of the bank to the sole office of Doylestown 
Trust is at Feasterville, which is more than 14 miles south of Doylestown, 

3 0 8 7 
-2-
There are numerous offices of other banks operating in the area between 
Doylestown Trust and the offices of Fidelity, and there is very little 
existing or potential competition between the two banks through their 
present offices, 
Doylestown Trust derives about 80 per cent of its deposits 
and loans from the central Bucks County area, and most of the remainder 
of its business from other areas of the county. About half of the 
banlc!s loans are secured by real estate, and nearly half of its deposits 
are time deposits. The deposits and loans that Fidelity derives from 
central Bucks County equal about 6 per cent of Doylestovm Trusts deposits 
and loans. 
The central Bucks County area, which is where the proposed 
mergers would have their principal impact, is served by 10 offices 
of six Bucks County-headquartered banks. Doylestovm National and 
Doylestown Trust serve as each other's major competitor. Recently, 
however, and xjhile the applications in these cases were pending before 
the Board, The Philadelphia National Bank, the second largest bank head-
quartered in Philadelphia, received approval to establish a de novo branch 
office in Doylestown and another in nearby New Britain; in addition, The 
First Pennsylvania Banking & Trust Co., the largest Philadelphia-based 
bank, received approval to establish a de novo branch office in 
Doylestown; and Bucks County Bank and Trust Co. (deposits $33.6 million) 
received approval to establish a de novo branch office in Plumsteadville, 
about five miles north of Doylestown. 

-2-
The addition of these competitors will, of course, sig-
nificantly alter the banking structure of central Bucks County; and, 
'although State law, per se f would not preclude Fidelity and Girard 
from establishing de novo branch offices in the Doylestown area, 
there is now a serious question whether the market would support 
additional de novo branch offices until the area undergoes substantial 
growth. Further, the replacement of Doylestown National and Doylestown 
Trust by offices of Girard and Fidelity, respectively, would make it 
possible for other banks to be permitted to establish de novo branch 
offices in the Doylestown area sooner than would otherwise be the case 
since the same degree of competition would have less impact on the 
basic strength of Girard or Fidelity than would be true for Doylestown 
National and Doylestown Trust. In this connection it is noted that 
there are many banks located in contiguous counties that could be 
permitted to establish de novo branch offices in Bucks County. 
It is concluded that the net effect of the proposed mergers 
on existing or potential competition would not be adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to each pair of banks proposing to merge are reason-
ably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the resulting banks. 
Convenience >and needs of the community. - The effect of the 
mergers on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the central 
Bucks County area. The present banking needs of the area are being 
served reasonably well; and, with the opening of the recently approved 

3089 
-2-
de novo branch offices, it appears that the area's banking needs will be 
met satisfactorily for some time. However, the replacement of the two 
Doylestown-based banks with offices of Girard and Fidelity would provide 
for central Bucks County convenient alternative sources of full banking 
services, which would benefit consumers of banking services. Further, 
Bucks County is the last undeveloped area for outward expansion from 
Philadelphia ; from 1950 to I960 the county s population increased 113 per 
cent, and the prospects for continued growth are excellent. While most 
of the growth thus far has taken place in the southern portion of Bucks 
County, the central area is obviously due for substantial growth over the 
next decade or two. The presence of offices of Girard and Fidelity, full-
service banks with large lending limits, would facilitate that growth. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the net 
effect of the proposed mergers on competition would not be adverse, and 
the mergers would benefit the banking convenience and needs of the central 
Bucks County area and contribute to its economic development. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the applications should 
be approved. 
August 12, 1968. 

3090 
Item No. 4 
8/12/68 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRUHIEK 
Because of the rapid developments in the Doylestown area, 
stimulated in part by these applications, a sharp distinction must be 
made betx;een the competitive situation at the time these applications 
"ere received and the time they were considered by the Board. When 
the applications for these mergers were filed, the Doylestown area 
"as relatively isolated from Philadelphia and other major centers. 
Banking concentration was high, and only a feu banks competed in the 
area -- principally Doylestovm National and Doylestovm Trust. 
Subsequently, there has been a rapid increase in the number 
of banking offices in the area, stemming from the activities of the 
large Philadelphia banks. First Pennsylvania and Philadelphia National 
have received approval to establish offices in the area, as has Bucks 
County Bank and Trust Co. Establishment of these nevj banking offices 
parallels general economic developments which have tended toward inte-
B^ating Doylestovm with the Philadelphia area. 
The integration of Doylestovm with the Philadelphia area must 
be considered as resulting in a distinct improvement in banking compe-
tition. While banking concentration in the Philadelphia area is not 
low, the degree of existing competition is more intense than the 
concentration ratios would suggest. Competition in Doylestown must 
now be considerably more intense than was the case in the recent past. 
In the Philadelphia area, there are seven large banks that are roughly 
°f comparable size. At least one additional smaller bank must also be 

3031 
-2-
considered an aggressive competitor* A number of these large banks 
nov; have offices in or near the central Bucks area, and all can legally 
branch into Doylestown. Moreover, commuter patterns permit banks in 
many areas of nearby New Jersey to provide some competition even 
though they cannot branch into the four-county area. Finally, there 
are a number of sizeable banks in contiguous counties which could, on 
the basis of State law, establish branches in Bucks County and in other 
metropolitan area counties. 
In the context of this recently developing economic 
environment, the competitive effects of these mergers cannot be con-
sidered serious. The increase in the share of deposits in the four-
county Philadelphia area held by Girard would be only .4 per cent and 
by Fidelity .3 per cent. The increase in concentration for the top 
four banks, including Girard and Fidelity, would, therefore, be less 
than 1 per cent. In the Doylestown area, on the other hand, the events 
discussed will result in a substantial decline in concentration. I 
would conclude that the substitution of offices of two large and 
aggressive Philadelphia banks for those of the two Doylestown banks 
is consistent with the improvement in the competitive environment, and 
the over-all competitive effect would be no more than slightly adverse. 
The Doylestown area is not currently deficient in banking 
services. Even if it were, such deficiencies would be corrected as 
the result of the recent approvals of the branch offices for two large 
Philadelphia banks. 

-2-
Houever, the Doylestown banks have only shown a capacity 
to operate effectively in a noncompetitive environment. They have 
persuasively indicated their concern about having to compete with 
the larger Philadelphia banks, and, in fact, their inability and 
unwillingness to do so. In this circumstance, and given the no more 
than slightly adverse effect on competition, it would be of value to 
the community to permit the replacement of the Doylestown banks by the 
two larger, more aggressive and more capable Philadelphia banks. 
For these reasons, I would approve the applications. 
August 12, 1968. 

3093 
Item No. 5 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
8/12/68 
I view the Board's approvals of the Girard Trust Bank-
Doylestown National Bank merger and of The Fidelity Bank-Doylestown 
Trust Company merger as incompatible with results clearly required 
by a proper application of the Merger Act's provisions. The issues 
in both cases are twofold. First, do the proposed mergers offer 
anticompetitive consequences? I find that the affirmative of this 
i3sue is abundantly established by the evidence of record in both 
cases. This being so, the second issue is whether the proponents of 
these merger proposals have adduced evidence that the likely benefits 
to the convenience and needs of the communities involved will outweigh 
the proven anticompetitive effects. This is the burden placed upon 
them by the applicable statute. United States v. Third National Bank 
in Nashville, et al., 390 U.S. 171 (1968); United States v. First City 
National Bank of Houston, et al., 336 U.S. 361 (1967). In my opinion, 
the proponents have failed to carry this burden and, accordingly, these 
applications should be denied. 
The Doylestown banks operate within the same relevant 
geographic banking market as do the large Philadelphia banks, among 
which the Girard Trust and Fidelity Bank are, respectively, the third 
and fourth largest in deposit size. While a smaller geographic sub-
market, more associated with the Doylestown area, appears to exist with 
respect to certain types of banking services, even for these services 
the large Philadelphia and other non-Doylestown area banks appear to 

-2-
represent an alternative, albeit less convenient, service outlet. 
Viewing both proposals in the context of the relevant geographic bank-
ing market area - the four-county Philadelphia area - the Board's 
approval action cannot but provide an administratively sanctioned 
impellent to an existing trend toward increased office and deposit con-
centration that has marked this area for the past two decades. From 
1947 to 1967, the number of banks in the area has been reduced from 
109 to about 30. In the shorter period from 1950 to 1967, concentration 
of total deposits in the seven largest Philadelphia banks has increased 
from 60 per cent to 90 per cent. Little amelioration of this condition 
has been realized by the relatively few new banks that have been chartered 
in the area during this same period. Given the high intensity of concen-
tration existing in the relevant area, it is axiomatic that any further 
impaction of control of banking resources cannot be sanctioned in the 
absence of a proven overwhelming public need accompanied by assurance 
that such need can reasonably be met only by the anticompetitive action 
Proposed. As hereafter discussed, the record in each of these cases is 
void of any suggestion of such overriding considerations. 
In addition to the prohibitive considerations relating to the 
agisting concentration of banking resources in this area, denial of 
these applications is, in my judgment, further required in view of the 
adverse effect that consummation of the merger will have on existing 
and potential competition between the banks involved. The record of 
the oral presentations before the Board on these applications is replete 

-2-
3095 
with assertions by both of the Doylestown banks as to their inabilities 
to compete successfully with branches of the large Philadelphia banks 
that have recently been authorized to commence operation in the 
Doylestown area. For the reason that I must deal with fact rather 
than fiction, I view these assertions as being at most self-serving, 
and at least anticipatory. 
Recent months have seen supervisory approval of five branch 
offices in the Doylestown area, one of which approval actions was that 
of the Board. These actions must be read as reflecting a judgment that 
the central Bucks County area, in which Doylestown is located, has sub-
stantial economic growth potential - sufficient to support adequately 
the operations of 10 offices of six Bucks County headquartered banks, 
with total deposits of $104 million, plus four offices of three 
Philadelphia-based financial institutions with combined deposits of 
approximately $4 billion. At the oral presentation before the Board, 
Girard Trust made clear its intention to seek de novo entry into this 
area should its merger application be denied. Fidelity Bank conceded 
that denial of its application would require further consideration of 
de_novo entry into this area. It must be assumed that the banks that 
have recently entered the Doylestown area by way of de novo establish-
ments concluded that such entry would prove a profitable venture. 
Certainly the operations records of the Doylestown National and Doylestown 
Trust attest to the profitable character of business in this area, and to 
the competitive abilities of the two banks. In addition to the facts 

-2-
3 0 3 6 
that each of the two Doylestown banks is well established, soundly 
capitalized, and capably managed, study of the earnings records of 
these banks shows that their net earnings as a percentage of total 
capital accounts at year-end 1967 were as favorable as that for all 
member banks of similar deposit size in the Third Federal Reserve District. 
More significantly, at the same date, Doylestown National's net earnings 
as a percentage of total assets was slightly higher than that of the 
aforementioned District average, and Doylestown Trust's more than double 
that average. That the present success and strong potential of the two 
Doylestown banks is fully appreciated by Girard Trust and Fidelity Bank 
is reflected in the premium that will be paid to the stockholders of the 
Doylestown banks. Doylestown National's stockholders will receive a 
premium equal to 13 per cent of the bank's total deposits, and the premium 
to the stockholders of Doylestown Trust will equal about 11 per cent of 
the bank's total deposits. These premiums are substantially in excess 
of that usually offered for acquisition of a going bank, even one having 
the favorable earnings records of the two Doylestown banks. 
In the face of the foregoing data, I am unable to accept the 
Proponents' fatalistic forecast for the Doylestown banks. I call atten-
tion to a conclusion reached in a recently completed study by the New 
York Banking Department and cited by the Supreme Court in the Third 
National Bank in Nashville case, supra. The study, entitled "The Future 
°f Small Banks", concluded that a small bank can compete successfully 
with a large bank - if it has the will to do so. I find nothing in these 

O b 
i 
-2-
cases that justifies a contrary conclusion. Certainly, X find no 
basis for the conclusion urged by the proponents, and apparently reached 
by the Board, that the future financial success of the two Doylestown 
banks lacks assurance in the absence of the affiliations here proposed. 
Admittedly, competition in Bucks County has and will become more 
aggressive with the office entry of the Philadelphia banks. To conclude, 
however, that de novo branch entry into the area by the large Philadelphia 
banks requires or even justifies merger action of the nature here proposed 
either reflects on the supervisory judgment that preceded and authorized 
the branch establishments by the Philadelphia banks, or represents a super-
visory concession as to the inevitability of total control of the banking 
structure by a few large institutions. In my judgment, neither result is 
required; neither should be tolerated. 
To this point I have dealt with the likely adverse competitive 
consequences of these proposals. Turning to an appraisal of any benefits 
fco the convenience and needs of the community involved, I conclude that 
there is a complete lack of showing of any such benefits. There can be 
dispute over the fact that all major banking services are presently 
available to the businesses and residents of the Doylestown area, and 
will be made even more conveniently available by the operations of the 
recently authorized branches of the three large Philadelphia institutions. 
Proponents of the merger proposals have further failed to 
satisfy 
me that the predicted economic expansion in the Doylestown area 
v'ill produce service demands that cannot be immediately and fully 

3098 
-2-
satisfied by the existing Doylestovm banks and, or in conjunction with, 
the Philadelphia banks with Doylestovm offices, or the Philadelphia 
banks to which the Doylestovm businesses and residents have quite con-
venient access. 
Considering (1) the proven extent to which banking resources 
in the four-county Philadelphia area are heavily concentrated in a fev7 
large banks, (2) the extent to which the Philadelphia banks, including 
Girard Trust and Fidelity Bank, are actively seeking business from the 
Doylestown area, (3) the likelihood that if these applications are denied, 
one and possibly both of the Philadelphia banks will seek de novo entry 
into the central Bucks County area - thus providing one and possibly two 
additional sources of banking service, (4) the successful operating 
history of the two Doylestovm banks - likely to continue in view of the 
favorable economic forecast for the area involved, and (5) the clear 
absence of any showing of real benefit to the public likely to follow 
upon consummation of these proposals, I would deny both proposals as 
heing contrary to the public interest. 
August 12, 1968. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A B H I N O T O N 
Item No. 6 
8/12/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
August 12, 1968. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in response to your letter of July 31 enclosing 
a newspaper article relating to the news dissemination practices of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
The article you forwarded appears to reflect strong dis-
satisfaction with the "background" ("not for attribution") press 
riefing. This type of press conference, of course, is widely used 
on the Hill, in the Administration, and by many others. It is true 
hat there are basic problems with the background method of discussion 
with the press; but it is just as true that no one has yet devised a 
suitable substitute. 
, 
T h e N e w Y o r k Reserve Bank regularly has a session with 
he press each Thursday afternoon in conjunction with the weekly 
Publication of the Federal Reserve condition statement, and the 
Resident of the Bank occasionally holds background press conferences, 
ress conferences at the New York Reserve Bank are open to newsmen 
representing media of general circulation. 
The President's press conferences were initiated and have 
een continued at the request of the press. They have always been 
lnformal question-and-answer sessions covering a broad range of 
subjects. Essentially, they provide representatives of the press with 
an opportunity to seek comments from the head of the largest Federal 
Reserve Bank on matters they believe are of interest to the public, 
he newsmen attending are informed that these conferences are for 
ackground purposes and on a nonattribution basis. 
A t the weekly press conference of the Bank, a press officer 
istributes and comments upon the financial statements issued that day 
y the Federal Reserve. Comments or supplementary information pro-
1 ed by the press officer concerning the data in the statements may 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
- 2 -
be attributed to the Bank or its spokesman. For example, changes in 
business loans at New York City banks according to industrial 
classifications, or views of the seasonal or contraseasonal nature 
of these changes, or of abnormal changes in float or money in 
circulation, are attributable to the Bank or its spokesman. 
It is not readily apparent from the column you enclosed 
how the New York Reserve Bank could "impart information to insiders'1, 
through articles in the newspapers. You have said that at the brief-
ings "reporters are told whether U. S. money and credit policy is to 
become tighter1 or easier, information obviously of great benefit to 
bond dealers. Knowing this, they know whether interest rates and 
bond prices will be going up or down." 
The fact is, however, that participants in the briefings 
make it a practice to avoid predictions about monetary policy. Of 
course they cannot prevent anyone from drawing his oWn conclusions 
on that score. 
In any event, news items which follow the press conferences 
often include material gathered by reporters from sources other than 
the Reserve Bank, press officer, or president, and their comments are 
mingled with those of the latter. Thus, they contain a blend of facts 
and comments from a variety of sources, reflecting the uncertainties 
that characterize the money market. This can be seen from the enclosed 
copies of articles that appeared in the New York Times and Wall Street 
Journal of July 12, 19, and 26, and August 2, the days following 
regular Thursday press conferences in New York. 
Divergent interpretations can appear in articles following 
the same conference. On July 26, for example, the New York Times 
headline on the story detailing the Thursday banking statistics said: 
"Pressure Easing In Money Market." The Wall Street Journal of the 
same day headlined its story: "Available Bank Credit Tightened In 
Latest Week." 
It is hard to see how "insiders" could profit from even a 
close reading of the stories under those headlines. 
Also enclosed are articles that appeared in Burroughs Clear-
ing House, the New York Times, and a recent editorial in the American 
Banker which indicate the press regards these briefings as a useful 
part of the Federal Reserve System's efforts to inform the public 
regarding its operations. 

The Honorable Wright Patman 
-3-
We share your feeling that great care must be taken to 
guard against the possibility of "leaking" information that could be 
used by speculators. We make every effort to insure that our public 
information procedures provide adequate protection against hazards of 
this kind, and these procedures accordingly are kept under constant 
review. 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
S »'• • '•. .. I 'j,, ;" -
Enclosures 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 

O L'U 
Item No. 7 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
8/12/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204 - RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Dealers1 Reserve and Differential Accounts 
Section 204.106 is revised to read as follows: 
§ 204.106 Member bank reserve requirements for dealers ' reserves and 
differential accounts. 
. 
> 
(a) The Board of Governors has reviewed its interpretations 
the "deposit" status of so-called "dealers1 reserves" and "differential 
accounts" (especially 1942 Federal Reserve Bulletin 302 and 1960 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 265) and has concluded that the distinctions previously 
drawn between such accounts are not warranted and should be abandoned, 
(b) A dealer's reserve or differential account usually arises 
when a merchant ("dealer") enters into an arrangement with a bank under 
which the bank furnishes the dealer with financing of his instalment 
accounts receivable on the basis of a sale of such receivables to the 
kank. Despite language to the contrary in many of the sale agreements, 
proceeds of the credit that the dealer receives upon the purchase of 
c°ntracts by the bank is only a portion (such as 90 per cent) of the 
amount due on such contracts. Depending on the results of collections 
° n the contracts purchased, some (or all) of the remainder may be 
rGali2ed b y t h e dealer later. 
(c) The establishment of a dealer's reserve account or 
differential account does not arise from the receipt of funds by the bank 
b u t rather from a bookkeeping entry to reflect a contingent obligation of 

the bank to make funds available to the dealer in the future, in 
specified circumstances. (Typical accounting entries by the bank are 
a debit to "Loans and discounts" for the principal due on the contracts 
Purchased, a credit to the dealer's checking account for 90 per cent 
°f such amount, and a credit to a "Dealer's reserve" or "Differential 
account" for the remainder.) As instalment payments are made on the 
contracts purchased, the funds received reduce the amount due on the 
contracts (a credit to "Loans and discounts") and may, at a time or 
times specified in the bank-dealer agreement and in amounts calculated 
in accordance therewith, result in the bank making additional credit 
Mailable to the dealer (a debit to the "Dealer's reserve" or 
'Differential account" and credit to the dealer's checking account). 
Until s u ch time, ownership of the funds is in the bank, as in the case 
°f any other funds received in repayment of an obligation owned by the 
bank. if collections are made by the dealer on behalf of the bank, the 
dealer may, in accordance with the terms of the agreement, remit to the 
bank less than the full amount collected, retaining an amount equal to 
the additional credit that the bank would be obliged to make available 
t° the dealer if collections were made by the bank itself. 
(d) In 1966, the Board reversed a long-standing position that 
member banks must maintain reserves against payments received by a bank 
a borrower on an instalment loan that are not immediately used to 
reduce the amount due on the loan but are held by the bank until the sum 
o f such payments equals the entire amount of principal and interest (so-
i l e d "hypothecated deposits"). In holding that such payments are not 

deposits against which reserves must be maintained (1966 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 808; § 204.111), the Board concluded that "where the agreement 
between the bank and the borroxver is such that instalment payments on 
loans are irrevocably assigned to the bank and can not be reached by the 
borrower or his creditors, such payments are not 'deposits' regardless 
°f the terms used . . . in the bank's books and records". 
(e) The Board believes that, with respect to "deposit" status, 
the considerations relating to dealers' reserves and differential accounts 
a*e similar to those relating to hypothecated deposits. As in the case 
°f hypothecated deposits, a customer of the bank (the dealer) may not 
make withdrawals from credit to his name (in a dealer's reserve or differ-
ential account). Ilor does the dealer have access to the funds received 
by the bank in payment on the instalment contracts purchased from the 
dealer, unless and until, pursuant to the provisions of the bank-dealer 
agreement, the bank becomes liable to the dealer for an amount represent-
e e a portion thereof. 
(f) For the purposes of section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 461) and Federal Reserve Regulation D (12 CFR 204), the 
Board considers that a deposit liability exists only when there is an 
indebtedness on the part of a bank with respect to either funds received 
0i: credit extended by the bank, and that "indebtedness" for this purpose 
d°es not include a contingent liability of the kind represented by a 
dealer's reserve or differential account. A similar contingent liabil-
ity 
that does not constitute such an indebtedness arises in connection 
X;ith a commitment to make a loan. 

-4- 
O J U j O 
(g) Accordingly, the Board has concluded that, when a member 
bank furnishes a dealer with financing of his instalment accounts receiv-
able on the basis of a "sale" of such receivables to the bank, no deposit 
liability arises as a result of an account created as a margin of secu-
rity for the bank, whether described as a "dealer's reserve", "differ-
ential account", or otherwise, unless and until, and then only to the 
extent that, the bank becomes actually (as distinguished from contin-
gently) obligated to make credit or funds available to the dealer. Stated 
in another way, such credit or funds constitute a deposit liability for 
the purposes of section 19 and Regulation D only to the extent that they 
could be reached immediately by the dealer's creditors in the event of 
his insolvency. 
(h) This ruling supersedes all previous rulings of the Board 
relating to the "deposit" status of dealers1 reserve accounts and differ-
ential accounts. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 461.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 12th day of August, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

310*; 
Item No. 8 
8/12/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
August 14, 1968. 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P. 0. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
By letter of May 31, 1966, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation asked the First National Bank of Chicago to pay additional 
insurance assessments for periods from 1961 through 1965 because, upon 
examination of certain contracts between the bank and its customers, 
the FDIC concluded that, under those contracts, the "Contract Reserve 
Account" (or similar account) created pursuant thereto was a "dealer's 
reserve", since it was, according to the FDIC, "created out of the 
Purchase price" of instalment contracts purchased by the bank from 
the customer, and therefore constituted a "deposit", as that term is 
defined in section 30L) of the FDI Act (12 U.S.C. 1813) with respect 
to which the payment of insurance assessments is required. 
The Board understands that concern as to the possible 
imposition, by the Federal Reserve, of penalties for deficient reserves 
is the principal reason First National is reluctant to accept the FDIC's 
Position, and that it will do so if it is assured that such penalties 
will not be imposed. 
The Board has considered the matter and has concluded that the 
bank is not subject to any penalty for deficient reserves in connection 
vith the accounts described above. The Board requests that your Bank 
inform First National Bank of Chicago of this conclusion. It would be 
appreciated if you would send a copy of your letter to Mr. H. W. Kefauver, 
Fi seal Agent Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, Washington, D. C., 
20429. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
B D A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTE 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 

MlSClvlrx. « 
O 1 J I 
SC'140A.2-11/67 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
8/12/69 
N E W YORK, N E W YORK 
10045 
AUG 121968 
Br. John J. 0'Conn* 11 
Via* Fresid®at 
Chsmisal Bank lev York 
Yrust Company 
^ Fine Street 
Bee York, Bev York 
10015 
Boar Br. 0*Councili 
Ve refer to your bank's application dated June Id, 
1963, requesting permission to establish a branch office in 
Rosa Q U I Chopping Center on tha east sids of Colunbus 
aue, approximately 1,050 faat south of Meant Fleassnt 
nus, Village of Thoravood (unincorporated tras), fown of 
lot Flaasanti Wcwtchestsr County, Bev York. After re/laving 
application in tha light of tha factors enunerstod in 
ctlon 265*2(f)(l) of tha Bulss ftegardlng Delegation of 
" ^^Authority issued by the Board of Oovtraori of the Federal 
•tsarve Systea, we have concluded that your application should 
„ 
M approved. Accordingly, oa behalf of the Board of Governors, 
^ 
Federal fteserve Bunk of Bee York, acting under delegated 
authority, approves the establlshaent by your bank of a traach 
office at the abova*aentloaed location, provided it is est&b~ 
Wished vithln one year of the date of this letter. 
ve shall appreciate your advleing as when the branch 
actually established and opeaed for buslnees, giving the 
Effective date of opening, tha name, if aay, by which it will 
be known, and the official postal address, including tha sip 
code number. 
Fleaee acknowledge receipt of thle letter by signing 
•ad returning the eneloeed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred V. Flderlt, Jr. 
flee Fresident 
Baclosure 
-iaa 

••140A.2-11/67 
Item No. 1 0 3 1 0 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF N E W YORK 
8 / 1 2 / 6 8 
N E W YORK. N E W YORK 10045 
AUG 1 21968 
Mr. D. 0* tfaraar 
Fraaidsat 
dicott Truat C«apany 
Washington Aranua 
ladicott, Ban *ork 
Daar Mr. Warnart 
va rafar to your tank'a application datad Juna 
l>6d, raquaating paraiaaloa to aatabliah a braach offica In 
# laaadiata nai«hbor;iood of tha intaraaction of Fmrk and 
tax AYaauat, City of Binghaaton, law York. 
Aftar " v * " ' 1 1 * 
application in tha light of tha factora aauaaratad ^n Saction 
.2(f)(1) of tha Hulaa Ragardiag Dalagation of Authority 
uad by tha Board «f Oottrnors of tha Fadaral Raaarva Byataa, 
— 
hava concludad that your application ahould ba approvad. 
Accordingly, on bahalf of tha Board of gwYaraora, tha Fadaral 
Tlaaarva Bank of law T^rk, actiag andar dalagatad authority, 
*Dprovaa tha aatabliahaaat by your baak of a 
** 
a aboYa-aantionad loaatioa, providad it la aatabliahad vithia 
ona yaar of tha data of thia lattar. 
Wt shall appruciata your adYiaiag ua whan tha branch 
la actually aatabliahad and opaaad for iuainaaa, 
activa data of opanlag, tha naaa, if any, by whlah it will 
Known, aad tha offiaial postal addraaa, including tha xip 
c oda naaba r• 
Plaaaa ackaowladga racaipt of thia lattar by aigning 
and raturning tha ancloaad copy to ua* 
•ary truly youra, 
Frad V. Pidarlt, 
Jr. 
fica Praaidant 
Kaaloaara 

C 
3109 
0 Item No. 11 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
B8/12/68 
Y 
New York, New York 10045 
August 12, 1968 
Mr. Durwood G. Hotter 
Senior Vice President 
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Southern New York 
150 Lake Street 
Elmira, New York 
14902 
Dear Mr. Hotter: 
This refers to your bank's application dated July 19, 
1968, requesting permission to establish a branch office at 
126 Lake Street, Elmira, Chemung County, New York, for the 
limited purpose of conducting the operations of the Business 
(Computer) Services and Uni-Pay Departments. 
After reviewing the application in the light of the 
factors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules Regarding 
Delegation of Authority issued by the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, we have concluded that your application 
should be approved. Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting under 
delegated authority, approves the establishment by your bank 
°f a branch at the above-mentioned location for the limited 
purpose of conducting the operations of the Business (Computer) 
Services and Uni-Pay Departments, provided the branch is estab-
lished within six months after the date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the branch 
Is actually established and opened for business giving the 
effective date of opening, the name, if any, by which it will 
be known, and the official postal address, including the zip 
code number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing 
and returning the enclosed copy. 
Very truly yours, 
(s) Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Fred W» Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF R I C H M O N D 
Item No, 
R I C H M O N D 
1 3 , 
V I R G I N I A 
8 / 1 2 / 6 8 
Aug«i«t 12, m a . 
Board of Piroetora, 
Onion Trust Caspany of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Barylend 
21203. 
CnfclcaiBt 
lbe M o r a l Beeerve Book of Bichnond, on behalf of 
and under authority delegated by tho Board of Ooveraora of 
tko Fodoral Beaervo tyetaa, haa approved tho application of 
Onion truat Caopany of Herylaad, Baltlaore, Maryland, to 
eetabllah a branch at tho northweat cornor of Joppa Ko^d at 
Fairaaunt Avonno, Towaon, Baltimore County, Maryland, pro* 
•ldlng tho branch it oatabliahad within ona yaar fro® tho 
data of this lottor. In reechlng thia deciaien, consider-
ation haa boon given to tho bank1a capitaliaation and •enage-
ngst, tho convenience and needa of tho coiuamity, tho com-
petitive aituation in the area and the future proepecta of 
the branch. 
Also, acting under authority delegated by the Board 
of Ooveraora of the Federal Beaervo Byaten, and purauant to 
proviaiona of Section 2 U of the Vederal Beaervo Act, the 
Federal Baeerve Bank of Bichacmd approvea en lnvaataont in 
bank prodeea of HO,000 by tihlen Truat Coapany of Maryland 
Incident to the aatabllahatant of thia branch. 
Fleaae advlae ua when e definite date for opening 
haa been determined and the exact title under which the 
branch will eperete. 
toura very truly, 
/S/ Aubrey N. Heflin 
Aubrey I. Beflin, 
Frealdent. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK O F ST. LOUIS 
P. O. BOX 4 4 2 
Item No. 13 
ST. LOUIS, MISSOURI 63166 
8/12/68 
August 12, 1968 
Board of Directors 
The Louisville Trust Company 
P. 0. Box 1619 
Louisville, Kentucky 40201 
Gentlemen: 
On Septamber 11, 1967 
Board of Governors, acting under 
application for permission to 
4913 Dixie Highway, in the 
County, Kentucky, provided 
year. 
Ue are in 
Vice President Stu 
delays in eatablltfi 
tension of time with 
Board of 
delagat 
1969 
bank on behfci£/<>f the 
thority, approved your 
h at approximately 
Center, Jefferson 
tsbllshed within one 
August 6, 1966, from 
there have been certain 
ting a six months' ex* 
St. Louis on behalf of the 
irve System, acting under 
tension of time until March 11, 
branch. 
Very truly youre. 
0. 0. Wyrick 
Vice President 
Crist:jr 
cc: Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C 
Hon. E. G. Adams, Commissioner, Frankfort, Kentucky 
Mr. Donald L. Henry, Manager, Louisville, Kentucky 
