MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 16, 1970 

2130 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Thursday, July 16, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

2 1 3 1 
7/16/70 
_2_ 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
United Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated June 30, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application by United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Coral 
Gables, Florida, to acquire shares of Security Exchange Bank, West 
Palm Beach, Florida. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance 
of the order was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
American Bankshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated July 2, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application by American Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Kettle Moraine Bank, Genesee Depot, 
Wisconsin. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance 
of the order was authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Commerce Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated July 7, 1970, and other pertinent 
Papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 

7/16/70 
_3_ 
with an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, 
to acquire shares of State Bank of Lebanon, Lebanon, Missouri. 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer noted that the proposed acqui-
sition involved the largest of three banks in the area and expressed 
concern over the direction in which the bank holding company pattern 
was developing in Missouri. They indicated that they would approve 
the present application but would issue a concurring statement. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy is attached under Item No. 3, along 
with a copy of the concurring statement. 
United Jersey Banks. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated July 13, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application by United 
Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of the following New Jersey banks: 
Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hacksensack; Central Home Trust Company, 
Elizabeth; and the successors by merger to Peoples National Bank of 
Monmouth County, Hazlet; The Third National Bank & Trust Company of 
Camden, Camden; and The Cumberland National Bank of Bridgeton, Bridgeton. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
It 
was also understood that the letter notifying the applicant of the 
Board's approval would note applicant's assurance that a capital improvement 
Program would be undertaken with respect to the lead bank. 

21 33 
7/16/70 
_4_ 
Report on proposed legislation. Approval was given to a 
letter to the Office of Management and Budget, in the form attached 
as Item No. 4, relating to a draft bill prepared by the Department of 
Agriculture to establish a Federal Commodity Account Insurance Corporation. 
Governor Robertson raised the question whether it was advisable 
to submit views with respect to a bill that appeared to pertain to 
matters largely outside the Board's province. However, other Board 
members felt that it was appropriate to make a response, limited to 
an expression of opinion on the broad objectives of the proposed legis-
lation. 
Presidential Commission. In a memorandum dated July 15, 1970, 
the Division of Research and Statistics discussed requests received 
• < . 
i • 
> t • 
from the Director of Financial Studies of the Presidential Commission 
tii ; • 
' > 
• ' - 
' v r 
on Financial Structure and Regulation for (1) a list of System documents 
of relevance to certain study areas, and (2) a background paper of 
broad general coverage relating, among other points, to banking regulations 
and their effectiveness. 
With respect to the first request, the Division suggested that 
a list of completed papers and of work in progress be furnished with 
the understanding that such papers as were subsequently requested would 
also be forthcoming. The Division suggested that Mr. Holland be assigned 
the responsibility of reviewing the preliminary list for confidential or 
sensitive items. With respect to the second request, the Division 

2 J L 3 4 
7/16/70 
-5-
suggested that the Board could (1) undertake the project, (2) turn 
down the request, (3) suggest that a request for a paper smaller in 
scope and better defined would be given further consideration, or (4) 
offer to produce a paper of lesser scope along lines to be defined by 
the Board. 
Members of the Board observed that the requests as presently 
constituted were vague and could result in unnecessary and unproductive 
work. It was the consensus that the objectives of the Commission needed 
to be better defined, and it was suggested that the Board's judgment 
as to relevant topics might be brought to bear to the Commission's 
advantage. The Board also noted that the time schedule within which 
the Commission expected to perform appeared to be unrealistic. There 
was an exchange of views as to ways in which the Board might be helpful 
in bringing the Commission's study into better focus, without putting 
too great a burden on its staff. In this connection, it was suggested, 
with respect to the requested background paper, that summer assistants 
might be assigned the task of tracing historical developments, but that 
further analysis be withheld pending more specific delineation of the 
Commission's interest. However, reluctance to turn such a project over 
to persons of untested ability was expressed. 
One Board member observed that the basic question appeared to 
be whether the Board wanted to encourage the Commission to proceed along 

2
1
3
5 
7/16/70 
_6_ 
a path that could be unproductive. He suggested furnishing a list of 
documents in the public domain with which the Commission might not 
i 
be familiar, along with related internal documents of a noncontroversial 
nature, and leaving negotiations to the staff with respect to the 
background document. 
Chairman Burns then explained why he considered the maintenance 
of good relations with the Commission to be of importance from the 
standpoint of the System's interests and expressed the view that an 
effort should be made to find ways in which to be as cooperative as 
possible. For instance, the topic chosen for the background paper was 
highly important but too comprehensive to be treated within a limited 
time. As an alternative, a conference bringing together knowledgeable 
individuals might be beneficial. There was some discussion of the ways 
in which such a conference could be handled, during which Governor Brimmer 
reiterated his reservations with regard to providing financial assistance. 
Another Board member expressed the view that a contribution 
the Board could usefully make would be to assist the Commission in 
formulating a realistic approach. He suggested the compilation of a 
selected reading list focusing on topics the Board considered most 
important, as an aid to the Commission in defining the issues and setting 
up priorities. 
Following further discussion, there was general agreement that 
the Commission should be furnished a limited list of documents, with 

Z\3i 
7/16/70 
_7_ 
the understanding that additional listings on specific topics would 
be available if desired, and that the question of development of 
background materials should be negotiated by the staff. The question 
whether internal papers proposed for transmittal should have the stamp 
of Board approval was left open for further consideration in the light 
of developments. 
Pittsburgh Branch alteration. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland interposing no 
objection to the Bank's proceeding with the development of preliminary 
plans and outline specifications for the construction of new coin vault 
and dock facilities for the Pittsburgh Branch at a cost of approximately 
$2 million. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 5. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Truth in Lending Advisory Committee. 
In a memorandum dated 
July 9, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
1. That Section 2A of the Rules of Organization and 
Procedure of the Advisory Committee on Truth in Lending 
be amended to provide the basis for current appointments 
to the Committee and for staggered terms of office. 
2. That appointments be made to the Advisory Committee 
in accordance with amended Section 2A of the Rules of 
Organization and Procedure. 
3. That Dean Richard H. Holton be reappointed as 
Chairman of the Advisory Committee. 
4. That each year a certificate of appreciation be 
issued to each of those persons terminating membership on 
the Advisory Committee. 

£137 
7/16/70 
-8-
The amendment to Section 2A would provide that the Advisory 
Committee would continue to consist of 20 members. As of July 1, 1970, 
10 of the members would be appointed for a one-year term and 10 for 
two years. Each year thereafter, 10 members would be appointed for 
two-year terms. Accordingly, the Division recommended that 10 specified 
persons presently serving on the Committee be appointed for one-year 
terms, and that 10 new members be appointed to fill the two-year terms. 
At today's meeting Governor Robertson recommended that action 
be taken on the reappointment for one-year terms of the following members 
presently serving on the Committee, but that action be deferred with 
respect to the appointment of new members to permit further study: 
Richard H. Holton 
Robert J. Klein 
Doris E. Saunders 
Miles C. Stanley 
Barbara A. Zimmelman 
James M. Barry 
0. C. Carmichael, Jr. 
John E. Eidam 
William F. James 
William F. Melville, Jr. 
Following discussion, the Division's recommendations as modified 
by Governor Robertson were approved unanimously. 
Margin credit developments. 
In a memorandum dated July 14, 
1970, the Capital Markets Section reviewed recent margin credit develop-
ments, and at today's meeting there was discussion of the tables attached 
t o the memorandum relating to stock prices and trading volume as well 
a s margin credit extended by brokers. 

ZjLilS 
7/16/70 
_9_ 
Emergency credit assistance. 
In a memorandum dated July 14, 
1970, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended (1) 
an extension for six months, to February 1, 1971, of the authority 
granted in the Board's letter of December 24, 1969, for the Federal 
Reserve Banks to make emergency credit available to nonmember depositary-
type institutions, and (2) reaffirmation that the guidelines in the 
Board's letter of March 17, 1970, should be followed in making credit 
available to nonmember commercial banks. 
Following discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter 
to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks in the form attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Housing study. The Board unanimously approved the recommendation 
°f the Division of Research and Statistics that a contract be entered 
into with Professor Alan R. Winger for a study of the mortgage instrument, 
a t an estimated cost of $5,869. The Board also approved any resulting 
overexpenditure in the pertinent accounts of the 1970 budget of the 
Division of Research and Statistics. 
Cleveland Reserve Bank. The Board discussed certain problems 
reported to exist at the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland in the light 
o f comments submitted by the Chief Federal Reserve Examiner on the basis 
°f the most recent examination of the Bank. Those problems related 

2139 
7/16/70 
_10_ 
generally to an apparent lack of management depth; it was indicated, 
for example, that obvious replacements were not in sight for several 
senior officers who would reach retirement age within the next few years. 
Excessive turnover in certain functions such as the research function 
also was suggested. 
Reasons were presented why it was not felt that the problem 
could be dealt with effectively through discussion with the directors 
by the Board's examining staff, particularly since an element of judgment 
as to the adequacy of management staff was involved and views might differ 
It was agreed that the Board should continue to be alert to developments, 
with a view to being prepared to take such steps as might appear necessary 
and it was understood that the Chairman of the Board would review the 
situation generally with the Chairman of the Bank when the opportunity 
Presented itself. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Director succession at Philadelphia. 
In a memorandum of July 15, 
1970, Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary, pointed out that the Board's 
r°tation policy for Class C directors would require that Chairman Winn 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia conclude his service on the 
B°ard of Directors at the end of this year. Another Class C director, 
Robert Yarnall, would leave at the end of 1971, and the Deputy Chairman, 
Bayard England, would leave at the end of 1972. 

2
1
4
0 
7/16/70 
_11_ 
Of the alternatives available, it was agreed that the most 
appropriate arrangement would be for Mr. England to serve as Chairman 
in 1971, with Mr. Yarnall as Deputy Chairman. It was not believed 
necessary to look further ahead at this time, although presumably 
Mr. England would also serve as Chairman of the Bank in 1972. 
Parsons Group banks. Governor Robertson reported to the 
Board on steps that had been taken or were contemplated by the bank 
supervisory authorities in dealing with the problems of the Parsons 
Group banks, particularly Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan, 
and the nonmember Birmingham-Bloomfield Bank. Among other things, he 
fo resaw the necessity for continued extension of Federal Reserve credit 
over a rather extended period to Bank of the Commonwealth and, on a 
conduit basis, through that bank to the nonmember bank. 
Currency depot. Governor Brimmer referred to the arrangement 
that had been entered into for the operation of a currency depot in 
Puerto Rico for one year by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, after 
which the operation was to be assumed by the Puerto Rican authorities. 
He indicated that some difficulty was being encountered in effecting 
the transfer and said that he and President Kimbrel planned to visit 
Puerto Rico in the near future to review the situation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2111 
Item No. 1 
7/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED BANCSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC., 
c°ral Gables, Florida, 
i y, ... 
fo* approval of the acquisition of 82*37 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Security Exchange Bank, West Palm Beach, 
Florida. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)),the application of United Bancshares of Florida, 
lnc», Coral Gables, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding 
Cotnpany, f o r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 82f37 per cent 
Of 
m°re of the voting shares of Security Exchange Bank, West Palm 
Beach, Florida ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
ritten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
ankin r 
ng for the State of Florida and requested his views and recommendation. 
Commissioner recommended approval of the application. 

2112 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 21, 1970 (35 Federal Register 7831) providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
Aspect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
Actors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
8uch consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant presently controls four banks with aggregate 
dePosits of $256 million, representing 2.1 per cent of total deposits 
h e l d b y Florida's commercial banks, (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect holding company formations and 
acquis!tions approved by the Board to date.) On acquisition of Bank 
deposits $31 million) Applicant would control 2.3 per cent of such 
eP°sits, and would become the eighth largest banking organization 
in the State. 
Bank, located in Palm Beach County, is the tenth largest of 
thg op , 
banking organizations located therein, and controls 4.1 per cent 

2
1
4
3 
- 2 -
°f county deposits. All of Applicant's present subsidiaries are located 
in Dade County, more than 70 miles to the south of Bank. Consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would eliminate no existing competition, and 
it does not appear that it would foreclose potential competition, or 
have adverse effects on the viability or competitive effectiveness of 
any competing bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
i n any relevant area, and could serve to stimulate competition in West 
palm Beach city and county. Applicant is substantially reducing the 
debt it incurred in 1966 when it became a one-bank holding company, has 
lengthened the capital positions of existing subsidiary banks, and 
h a s formulated definite plans to further reduce existing debts and to 
eliminate the debt to be incurred in the acquisition of Bank. In 
adc*ition, it has agreed to strengthen the capital position of Bank. 
banking factors, as they relate to Applicant and its present 
8ubsldiaries are consistent with approval, and, as they relate to Bank, 
lend support toward approval of the application. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served weigh 
lightly in favor of approval of the application because of new and 
improved services to be offered by Bank which include trust services, 
instruction loan financing, and an increase in Bank's lending capabilities, 
the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in 
the 
e public interest, and that the application should be approved. 

2
1
4
4 
- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 16, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 1 
7/16/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . 
C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
AMERICAN BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Kettle Moraine Bank, Genesee Depot, 
' 
Wisconsin. 
• 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of American Bankshares Corporation 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
8l0re of the voting shares of Kettle Moraine Bank, Genesee Depot, 
Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Wisconsin 

2146 
- 2 -
Commissioner of Banking and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 23, 1970 (35 Federal Register 7998), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
With respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant has two subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits 
$125 million, which represent 1.4 per cent of total bank deposits 
the State. It is the sixth largest banking organization and sixth 
largest bank holding company in Wisconsin. 
(All banking data are as 
December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations 
atld acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) Bank, headquartered in 
Genesee Depot, has five offices with total deposits of $11 million, 
representing 8 per cent of deposits in a market which is centered in 

2
1
4
7 
-3-
the City of Waukesha, and includes the central portion of Waukesha 
County (population 228,000), which has one of the highest rates of 
Population growth of any County in the United States. Bank's three 
competitors, the largest and smallest of which are affiliated with 
bank holding companies, are all located in Waukesha, and control, 
respectively, 59, 26 and 7 per cent of market deposits. Upon 
acquisition of Bank, Applicant would increase only slightly its 
Present share of State deposits and would become the State's fifth 
largest banking organization. Applicant's two Milwaukee subsidiaries 
are located about 25 miles east of Genesee Depot. Because of the 
distance involved and the presence of banks in the intervening area, 
Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank are not regarded as significant 
Present or potential competitors. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse 
e£fect on competition in any relevant area, and could stimulate 
coir,petition in the aforementioned market. The banking factors are 
c°nsistent with approval of the application, as they relate to Appli-
Cant and its subsidiaries, and, as they relate to Bank, weigh slightly 
favor of approval. The Genesee Depot community would benefit from 
acquisition because Bank would be able to offer specialized 
Services, such as trust services, now available only in adjoining 
c°nimunities. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
ition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
sh°uld be approved. 

2
1
4
8 
-4-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
°rder, unless such time be extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 16, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2
1
4
9 
Item No. 1 
7 / 1 6 / 7 0 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
g°r aPProval of acquisition of more than 
per cent of the voting shares of the 
t a t e Bank of Lebanon, Lebanon, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
" 
L F R 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas 
Clty, Missouri ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
t h e B o a r d's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 80 per cent 
Of fcL 
n e voting shares of the State Bank of Lebanon, Lebanon, Missouri 
("Bank")# 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
t l c e o f receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Finance of 
State of Missouri, and requested his views and recommendation. The 

2
1
5
0 
-2-
Commissioner commented that he viewed the proposal as a progressive 
step for banking in Missouri. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 21, 1970 (35 Federal Register 7831), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal, A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered by the Board, 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and the third largest 
hanking organization in Missouri, has 14 subsidiary banks with $809 million 
in deposits, which represent 7,5 per cent of the total deposits of all banks 
in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted 
t o reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board to date.) 
Bank (deposits $13.8 million) is the largest of three banks 
located in Laclede County, the relevant market, and holds 45 per cent of 
that market's deposits. It appears that there is spirited competition among 

2
1
5
1 
-3-
the three banks, and it does not appear that Bank has a dominant 
competitive advantage. Applicant's closest subsidiary is 50 miles 
southwest of Bank, and neither it nor any other of Applicant's 
Present subsidiaries competes with Bank to a significant extent. 
Applicant's entry into the Laclede County market de novo or by ac-
quisition of one of the two smaller banks does not appear likely, 
because of the existing low population-to-bank ratio and the expressed 
desire of those two banks to remain independent, it does not appear 
fchat existing competition would be eliminated, or significant 
Potential competition foreclosed, by consummation of Applicant's 
Proposal, or that there would be undue adverse effects on any other 
bank in the area involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would not have significant adverse effects 
competition in any relevant area. Considerations relating to the 
financial and managerial resources and future prospects are regarded as 
insistent with approval of the application as they relate to Appli-
Cant and its subsidiaries, and lend some weight in favor of approval 
a s they relate to Bank, since the acquisition will solve a management 
^cession problem at Bank. Considerations relating t o t t e c o t w c a l e n c o a n d 
needs of the communities to be served lend additional weight in support 
aPproval, in that Applicant proposes to expand many of Bank's present 
Services and to make trust services available through the holding 
°0niPany's principal bank, in Kansas City. It is the Board's judgment 
th 
a t consummation of the proposed acquisition would be In the public 
erect, and that the application should be approved. 

ZV62 
-4-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 16, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Uaisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Hitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2
1
5
3 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF fct^RNfaRS RbBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
While we have concurred in the Board's action approving 
Applicant's acquisition of the State Bank of Lebanon, there are 
aspects of this proposal and of the developing concentration of 
banking resources in the State of Missouri that warrant, and more, 
require an expression of concern regarding these occurrences. The 
Board's action will enable Applicant, the largest of eight bank 
holding companies in the State, and its third largest banking organ-
isation, to acquire the largest of three banks in the relevant market, 
the deposits of which represent 45 per cent of the market's total. 
Th 
e eight bank holding companies in the State control approximately 
17 per cent of the total State deposits. Four years ago, two bank 
holding companies controlled 4 per cent of such deposits. The 10 largest 
banking organizations in the State, three of which are registered bank 
holding companies, now control 44 per cent of the commercial bank deposits 
0 f the state. 
The foregoing development represents an accelerating pace 
o f hanking resources concentration in Missouri, and, more significantly, 
the part of this Applicant - a development that bears close super-
visory surveillance. 
J u ly 16, 1970. 

2
1
5
4 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
7/16/70 
F E D E R A L R E S EF2VE S Y S T E M 
WASH I NGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R r S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 16, 1970. 
Mr. Wilfred II. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Leg j. slat ive Referenc.e, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Office of Management and Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Hear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to your Legislative Referral Memorandum dated 
July 2, 1970, transmitting a draft bill prepared by the Department 
of Agriculture "To establish a Federal Commodity Account Insurance 
Corporation, and for other purposes.", and requesting the Board's 
views thereon. 
Broadly stated, the purpose of the bill is to protect by 
means of insurance provisions and related supervisory oversight funds 
deposited with futures commission merchants in connection with 
commodity customers' transactions. While the provisions of the bill 
do not appear to involve areas of the Board's supervisory or regulatory 
responsibilities, the Board believes appropriate the legislation's 
objective to safeguard customers' funds on deposit with futures com-
mission merchants through proposed payment, under specified circum-
stances, of insured customer accounts and the provisions for 
Establishment of minimum financial standards for futures commission 
merchants. 
The Board sees no objection to the proposed legislation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

E 3 D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
CJF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/16/70 
A D D H E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 3 P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 17, 1970 
Mr. W, Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
P. 0. Box 6387, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
A 
• t; 
It is noted from your letter of July 9, 1970, that 
your Directors have approved the construction of a new coin 
vault and dock facilities for the Pittsburgh Branch at a cost 
of approximately $2 million, and that this action is in line 
with suggestions made by Governor Brimmer on behalf of the 
Board to Chairman Walkley. Accordingly, the Board will inter-
pose no objection to your Bank's proceeding with the develop-
ment of preliminary plans and outline specifications for this 
project. 
, Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

2
1
5
6 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
7/16/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N D E Is! r. E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 16, 1970. 
near Sir: 
The Board has extended for six months, to February 1, 1971, 
authority granted in its letter of December 24, 1965, for direct 
fading under the third paragraph of Section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
ct to nonmember depositary-type institutions and for indirect lending 
hr°ugh member banks to such institutions. 
^ 
Procedures for making credit available to mutual savings 
anks and savings and loan associations that are riot members of the 
Gaeral Home Loan Bank System are those specified in the letter of 
ecernber 24. Procedures for accommodating nonmember commercial banks 
t e specified in the Board's letter of March 17, 1970 (F.R.L.S. //1000.10). 
Very truly ycurs 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
TO 
PRESIDENTS- OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
