Minutes for 
2> 1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

p s 
i /lOl-
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, May 2, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members1 
Offices 
Mrs. Winkler of the Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Williams, Wernick, 
Eckert, Keir, Baker, Beck, Ettin, Fry, 
Kelty, and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Ghiardi, Norwood, Gemmill, Altmann, 
Gekker, and Stem, and Mrs. Junz of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Today's usual weekly review included 
reports by Mr. Kelty on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry 
on bank credit, and by Mr. Stem on the foreign exchange and gold 
markets. Copies of the documentation prepared for the purpose of 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 

1426 
5/2/69 
-2-
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Solomon, 
Partee, and Norwood then withdrew, as did Messrs. Sherman and Morgan, 
and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Solomon, Egertson, Maguire, Pounds tone, 
and Schober of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on May 1, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to its acquisition of the stock of 
Cofinance S.A., Geneva, Switzerland. 
1 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to its acquisition of stock of Seguros 
Intercomerciales, S.A., Panama City, Panama. 
2 
Letter to Allied Bank International, New York, 
New York, granting consent to its acquisition 
of the stock of Allied Investment N.V., 
Willemstad, Curacao. 
3 

5/2/69 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to United States Trust Company Inter- 
4 
national Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to its acquisition of the 
stock of a Swiss corporation to be organized 
in Geneva, Switzerland. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
5 
California, granting consent to its acquisition 
of stock of Salik Bank in Basel, A.G., Basel, 
Switzerland. 
Seven interpretations of provisions in Regula- 
6 
tion Z, Truth in Lending. 
In connection with Item No. 5, Governor Brimmer reported that 
additional information received from the Federal Reserve Bank of San 
Francisco had clarified how the investment would be made within the 
guidelines of the foreign credit restraint program. This information, 
which he had requested because United California Bank was operating so 
close to its ceiling when the application was submitted, should be 
made a part of the record of the case. He urged that the Reserve 
Banks be asked to provide such documentation in the future in similar 
situations. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of First National Bank of 
Bristol, Bristol, Vermont, into The Merchants National Bank of 
Burlington, Burlington, Vermont, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion stating that 
consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 

-H \ 9 Q 
5/2/69 
-4-
Policy record entries. With a memorandum of April 28, 1969, 
Mr. Broida submitted a draft of policy record entry covering the 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on March 4, 1969, as 
revised to take account of comments received from Committee members 
and staff following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
Mr. Broida suggested a further technical change in the entry, 
and the entry was then approved unanimously by the Board, with the 
understanding that it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presi-
dents primarily for information but with an indication of the date by 
which any further comments should be received and that it would be 
released to the press about June 2, 1969, after final Board review. 
With a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated April 30, 1969, there 
had been submitted the proposed policy record entry covering the 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on February 4, 1969. 
The entry was submitted for final review by the Board prior to release 
to the press, which was contemplated on May 5, 1969. The entry had 
been approved by the Board on April 22, and no further suggestions had 
been received. 
The release of the material to the press on May 5, 1969, was 
approved unanimously. 
Morrice State Bank. Mr. Leavitt reported on problems that 
confronted The Morrice State Bank, Morrice, Michigan, a member bank. 
The banking authorities, he said, were attempting to work out a merger 
with one of several nearby banks. 

1429 
5/2/69 
-5-
Secretary's Note: Mr. Leavitt subsequently 
reported to the Board by memorandum that a 
nonmember bank had purchased the assets and 
assumed the liabilities of Morrice State 
Bank. 
Call for condition reports. Pursuant to the established 
procedure the close of business April 30, 1969, had been fixed as the 
date for the first call during 1969 on all insured banks for reports 
of condition. A telegram had been sent yesterday to all Federal 
Reserve Banks requesting that on May 5, 1969, a call be made upon 
State member banks and affiliates for reports of condition as of the 
close of business April 30. 
The sending of the telegram was ratified. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1430 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
5/2/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
^LRtsf: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1969 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letters of February 27, and March 13, 
1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
("FNCOIC11) to purchase and hold all of the shares of Cofinance S.A. 
("Cofinance"), Geneva, Switzerland, at a cost of approximately 
$696,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Cofinance by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Cofinance if Cofinance at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation organ-
ized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Cofinance establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in Switzerland or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Cofinance as it may require from time to 
time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Cofinance 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Cofinance were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 

8 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That FNCOIC shall not carry on its books the shares 
of Cofinance at a net amount in excess of its propor-
tionate share of the book capital accounts of Cofinance, 
after giving effect to the elimination of all known 
losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Cofinance in Switzerland 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the acquisition, it is requested that 
the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of Cofinance. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

of COW-V. 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
XiO/C 
Item No. 2 
5/2/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1969. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of December 6, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold up to 63 per cent of 
the shares of Seguros Intercomerciales, S.A. ("SISA"), an insurance 
brokerage company to be formed in Panama City, Panama, at a cost 
of approximately $51,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of SISA by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in SISA if SISA at any time 
undertakes any activity or operation other than that 
of insurance brokerage in Panama; and 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of SISA as it may require from time to time. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of SISA. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1433 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
5/2/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1969 t 
Allied Bank International, 
P. 0. Box 3076, 
Church Street Station, 
New York, New York. 10008 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of February 3, 1969, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation ("ABI") to purchase and hold all of the shares 
of Allied Investment N.V. ("AINV"), a finance and investment company 
to be organized in Willemstad, Curacao, at a cost of approximately 
$100,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of AINV by ABI is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That ABI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in AINV if AINV at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if AINV establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Curacao or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to ABI; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, ABI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of AINV as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by AINV 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if AINV were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

1434 
Allied Bank International 
-2-
(4) That adequate information covering AINV's operations 
will be maintained at your head office and will be 
available tothe Board and its accredited representatives. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of AINV. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

12 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
5/2/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1969 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, 
45 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 19, 1969, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("USTCIC") 
to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent of the capital stock of a 
corporation to be organized under the laws of the Canton of Geneva, 
Switzerland (the "Company"), at a cost of approximately $11,500, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of the Company by USTCIC is granted subject to the following con-
(1) That USTCIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in the Company if the Company 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a cor-
poration organized under Section 25(a) of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act could, with the consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
the Company establishes any branch or agency or 
takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to USTCIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
USTCIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of the Company as it may 
require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by the 
Company be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regu-
lation K in the same manner as if the Company were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
ditions 

1.436 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by the Company in 
Switzerland in the currency of that country. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation and United States Trust Company of 
New York, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1437 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
DF THE 
Item No. 5 
i ' f M i k F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5/2/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 2, 1969. 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 90054 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of March 24, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Sections 9 and 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for United California 
Bank ("UCB"), Los Angeles, California, to purchase and hold approx-
imately 68.5 per cent of the outstanding shares of Salik Bank in 
Basel, A.G., Basel, Switzerland ("Salik Bank"), at a cost of approx-
imately $5,939,070, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of Salik Bank by UCB is granted subject to the applicable provisions 
of Section 25 and Regulation M and to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares shall be disposed of as promptly 
as practicable if Salik Bank shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if Salik Bank were a corpora-
tion organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, UCB 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Salik Bank as it may require from time 
to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Salik 
Bank be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if Salik Bank were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; and 
(4) That UCB shall not carry on its books the shares of 
Salik Bank at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of Salik Bank, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 

United California Bank 
- 2 -
1438 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your bank and United California Bank International, New York, and 
that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1439 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 6 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/2/69 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
§ 226.201 Lay-Away Plans as extensions of credit. 
(a) Many vendors offer Lay-Away Plans under which they retain 
the merchandise for a customer until the cash price is paid in full and 
the customer has no contractual obligation to make payments and may, at 
his option, revoke a purchase made under the plan and request and re-
ceive prompt refund of any amounts paid toward the cash price of the 
merchandise. 
(b) A purchase under such a Lay-Away Plan shall not be con-
sidered an extension of credit subject to the provisions of Regulation Z. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1602 and 1604.) 
§ 226.402 Term of insurance coverage. 
(a) Under § 226.4(a)(5) and (6) certain disclosures of insur-
ance premium costs, if applicable, are required. The question arises 
as to whether such amounts of cost disclosed must include the cost of 
insurance for the full term of the transaction. 
(b) Under § 226.4(h) the cost of insurance for the full period 
of insurance coverage which the creditor will require shall be disclosed 
if the cost of the insurance premium is required to be included in the 
finance charge. However, if the cost of insurance is not required to be 

1140 
-2-
included in the finance charge, the cost to be disclosed need only be 
the cost of premiums for the term of the initial policy or policies 
written in connection with the transaction, accompanied by a statement 
of the type of insurance and the term thereof. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1605.) 
§ 226.703 Finance charge based on average daily balance in open end 
credit accounts. 
(a) Section 226.7(b)(8) requires that periodic statements for 
open end accounts shall disclose, among other things, "The balance on 
which the finance charge was computed, and a statement of how that 
- "C > 
j 
<>! ' 
•• 
' 
... • 'j •> 
w >! 
balance was determined." In some instances, creditors compute a finance 
charge on the average daily balance by application of a monthly periodic 
rate. In such case, this information is adequately disclosed if the 
statement gives the amount of the average daily balance on which the 
finance charge was computed, and also states how the balance is deter-
mined. In other instances, the finance charge is computed on the bal-
ance each day by application of a daily periodic rate and such charges 
are accumulated and debited to the account in a single amount for the 
billing cycle. The question arises whether the periodic statement must 
show for each day of the billing cycle a balance on which a finance 
i 
charge was computed. 
(b) If a daily periodic rate is used, the balance to which it 
is applicable shall be stated as follows: 
(1) A balance for each day in the billing cycle; or 
(2) The sum of the daily balances during the billing cycle, or 

1441 
-3-
(3) The average daily balance during the billing cycle in 
which case the creditor shall state on the face of the 
periodic statement, its reverse side, or on an enclosed 
supplement that the average daily balance is multiplied 
by the number of days in the billing cycle and the 
periodic rate applied to the product to determine the 
amount of the finance charge. 
In each case the annual percentage rate shall be determined and disclosed 
by multiplying the daily periodic rate by 365. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1636.) 
§ 226.704 Annual percentage rate computation where transaction charges 
are imposed on open end credit accounts. 
(a) Section 226.7(b)(6) prescribes the method by which an 
annual percentage rate is computed where the creditor of the open end 
credit account imposes finance charges with respect to specific trans-
actions during the billing cycle. 
(b) In determining the denominator of the fraction under 
§ 226.7(b)(6), no amount will be used more than once when adding the 
sum of the balances to which periodic rates apply to the sum of the 
amounts financed to which specific transaction charges apply. In every 
case the full amount of transactions to which specific transaction 
charges apply shall be included in the denominator. Other balances or 
parts of balances shall be included according to the manner in which 
a periodic rate is applied, as illustrated in the following examples 
of accounts on monthly billing cycles: 

1442 
-3-
Previous balance - none. 
A specific transaction of $100 occurs on first day of the 
billing cycle. 
The average daily balance is $100. 
A specific transaction charge of 3% is applicable to the 
specific transactions. 
The periodic rate is 1-1/2% applicable to the average daily 
balance. 
The numerator is the amount of the finance charge, which is $4.50, 
The denominator is the amount of the transaction (which is 
$100), plus the amount by which the balance to which the 
periodic rate applies exceeds the amount of specific trans-
actions (such excess in this case is 0), totaling $100. 
The annual percentage rate is the quotient (which is 4.5%) 
multiplied by 12 (the number of months in a year), i.e., 54%. 
Previous balance - $100. 
A specific transaction of $100 occurs at midpoint of the 
billing cycle. 
The average daily balance is $150. 
A specific transaction charge of 3% is applicable to the 
specific transaction. 
The periodic rate is 1-1/2% applicable to the average daily 
balance. 
The numerator is the amount of finance charge, which is $5.25. 

1113 
The denominator is the amount of the transaction (which is $100), 
plus the amount by which the balance to which the periodic rate 
applies exceeds the amounts of specific transactions (such excess 
in this case is $50), totaling $150. 
As explained in example 1, the annual percentage rate is 
3.5% x 12 = 42%. 
3. If, in example 2, the periodic rate applies only to the previous 
balance, the numerator is $4.50 and the denominator is $200 (the 
amount of the transaction, $100, plus the balance to which only 
the periodic rate is applicable, the $100 previous balance). As 
explained in example 1, the annual percentage rate is 2.25% x 12 = 27%. 
4. If, in example 2, the periodic rate applies only to an adjusted 
balance (previous balance less payments and credits) and the 
customer made a payment of $50 at midpoint of billing cycle, 
the numerator is $3.75 and the denominator is $150 (the amount 
of the transaction, $100, plus the balance to which only the 
periodic rate is applicable, the $50 adjusted balance). As 
explained in example 1, the annual percentage rate is 2.5% x 12 = 30%. 
5. Previous balance - $100. 
A specific transaction (check) of $100 occurs at the midpoint of 
the billing cycle. 
The average daily balance is $150. 
The specific transaction charge is 25 cents per check. The 
periodic rate is 1-1/2% applied to the average daily balance. 

144 
-6 
The numerator is the amount of the finance charge, which is 
$ 2 . 5 0 , and includes the 
2 5 cents check charge and the 
$ 2 . 2 5 
resulting from the application of the periodic rate. The 
denominator is the full amount of the specific transaction 
(which is $100) plus the amount by which the average daily 
balance exceeds the amount of the specific transaction (which 
in this case is $50), totaling $150. 
As explained in example 1, 
the annual percentage rate would be 
1 - 2 / 3 % x 
1 2 
= 
2 0 7 o . 
(c) Regardless of such method of computation, the annual per-
centage rate to be disclosed shall be not less than the periodic rate 
multiplied by the number of periods in a year or the rate as may other-
wise be determined under § 2 2 6 . 5 ( a ) . 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1636.) 
§ 226.802 Disclosures on mail or telephone orders. 
(a) Under § 226.8(g), disclosures may be made at any time not 
later than the date the first payment is due under certain conditions. 
The question arises as to when disclosures shall be made on mail or 
telephone orders where the information outlined in § 226.8(g)(1) and 
(2) is not available to the customer or prospective customer. 
(b) Under the circumstances set forth in the above question, 
the creditor shall make the disclosures required under Regulation Z 
as follows: 
1. With respect to credit sales, not later than at the time of 
delivery of the property or first performance of service 
ordered. 

1445 
-3-
2. With respect to loans, not later than at the time proceeds of 
the loan are disbursed. 
3. Except that if the transaction is subject to the provisions 
of § 226.9, the disclosures shall be made before the trans-
action is consummated. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638.) 
§ 226.803 Disclosures when discounts apply for prompt payment. 
(a) Under § 226.8(o), disclosures shall be made on the billing 
statement whereas under § 226.8(a) disclosures shall be made before the 
transaction is consummated. The question arises as to which provision 
Prevails. 
(b) The provisions of § 226.8(o) prevail under the conditions 
set forth in that paragraph unless the transaction is also subject to 
the provisions of § 226.9 in which event, the disclosures shall be made 
before the transaction is consummated. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638.) 
§ 226.804 Series of sales-content of agreement. 
(a) Under § 226.8(h), if a credit sale is one of a series of 
transactions made under an agreement providing for the addition of a 
current sale to an existing outstanding balance and the customer has 
approved in writing the annual percentage rate or rates and certain 
other requirements are met, disclosures may be made at any time not 
later than the date the first payment for that sale is due. 
(b) The question arises as to how the annual percentage rate 
rates should be shown in an agreement where, for example, an 18% 

1446 
annual percentage rate applies to the first $500 of balance, a 12% annual 
percentage rate applies to all balances over $500, and the mix of the two 
rates on transactions over $500 will produce a gradually decreasing annual 
percentage rate as the amount of balance over $500 increases. 
(c) In addition to meeting the other requirements of § 226.8(h), 
if two or more annual percentage rates apply to ranges of balances, the 
agreement need only state each annual percentage rate and the range of 
balances to which it applies. However, the disclosures which must be made 
not later than the date the first payment is due must include the actual 
annual percentage rate applicable to that sale. 
(Interprets and applies 15 U.S.C. 1638.) 
' 
" / 
0 
> 
, ; 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 2d day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
'j 
(• 
