IfrS' 
F 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 9, 1971 

9 1 
A O 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 9, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
ZM 
K 
I 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maise1 
Mr. Brimmer 
M r . Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs of the Office of the Secretary 
pi 
Staff presented the usual weekly review of economic and financial 
... 
r?- u . • • , 
c
 
; 
t: 
developments. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for this 
It! 
review have been placed in the Board's files along with copies of the 
.. 
• 
*
 
1 
I 
individual briefings. 
' 
' 
' ' 
' 
'
 
: 
F 
There followed comments by Mr. Rippey on legislative developments 
• 
• 
• 
• 
- 
- 
• 
• " 
' 
• 
' 
• 
• 
r
, 
of interest to the Federal Reserve, after which members of the staff who 
had attended specifically for the purpose of the weekly review withdrew 
from the meeting. 
Governor Daane referred to the emphasis that had been placed on 
the monetary aggregates, particularly the money supply, in the deliberations 
i/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

913 
4/9/71 
-2-
of the Federal Open Market Committee in recent months and to the degree 
of specificity with which those deliberations were revealed in the 
published policy record entries of the Committee. 
It appeared to him 
that it might be desirable to review procedures carefully to determine 
whether or not they were entirely appropriate. 
The policy record entries 
were detailed and accurate. Yet they were released only after a lag of 
90 days, while he sensed that market specialists were able much sooner 
to estimate fairly well the course of Federal Reserve policy, with the 
result that an advantage was enjoyed by that sophisticated group as 
compared with the general public. His concern in that regard was 
heightened by the market reaction to certain Trading Desk operations 
conducted since the last meeting of the Open Market Committee. 
There followed a discussion of factors affecting the ability of 
market participants and other observers to make judgments with regard to 
open market policy and implementing operations during which it was 
suggested that a key factor in deciding upon the appropriate schedule 
for release of information by the Federal Reserve should be a determi-
nation of the procedure that would be of most aid to the effectiveness 
of monetary policy. In this connection, an observation was made that 
if the logic was carried to its extreme, equality of treatment to all 
Parties would necessitate the release of information to the public on 
the day of each Open Market Committee meeting. It was noted also that 
consideration had been given to shortening the lag in release of 

914 
4/9/71 
-2-
Committee policy record entries to 60 days, but that the decision had 
been against changing the existing schedule at this time. 
A suggestion was made that, in view of the questions raised by 
Governor Daane and the points mentioned in the ensuing discussion, it 
might be desirable for the staff to reconsider the whole matter of 
procedures and produce a paper as a basis for further consideration. 
Reference then was made to a letter that it had been proposed 
might be sent by the Manager of the System Open Market Account to 
Government securities dealers. 
The letter would recognize the fact 
that some dealers had been informing their customers when the Trading 
Desk was in the market, despite the outstanding Federal Reserve request, 
and would indicate that henceforth dealers need not be 
guided by the 
terms of that request. 
Reservations were expressed by some Board members about the 
advisability of sending such a letter. 
It was brought out, in this 
connection, that there had been discussion by Board staff with the 
Manager concerning an alternative under which the Manager would talk 
with the dealers informally, particularly with those who had been con-
forming to the outstanding request, but that the Manager favored the 
u s e of a letter on the ground that the situation would be better clar-
ified in that way. Another possible alternative mentioned at this 
meeting was that the Federal Reserve might release certain information 
°n Desk activities at the close of each day, but it was noted that even 

915 
4/9/71 
-2-
the slight delay involved iri such a procedure probably would not be 
completely satisfactory to all market participants. 
There was also 
a review of the practice followed in earlier years of maintaining a 
list of dealers qualified to do business with the Desk, and of reasons 
why the maintenance of such a list had been abandoned. 
The relationship of the questions involved in whether or not 
to send the proposed letter to the questions raised by Governor Daane 
at the beginning of today's discussion was noted, and it was suggested 
that the Account Manager be asked to present the question of the proposed 
letter for consideration at a forthcoming meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia on April 1, by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta on April 5, and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, and 
Dallas on April 8, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances in their 
existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
aPpropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
