MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 16, 1971 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 2 Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Banks of 
St. Louis and Dallas. 

2061 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, August 16, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 11:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the 
Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to 
the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Weiner, Assistant Adviser, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
were present. 
•'it, 
;Vo;u'dt U'^^rvi I?.'!nk ts C 
vo 
' 
? 
The meeting opened with a telephone report from the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York on initial market reactions to the new economic 

2062 
8/16/71 
-2-
measures which the President had announced on nationwide television the 
previous evening. The report covered reactions in both domestic and 
international financial m a r k e t s . F o l l o w i n g the report, members of 
the Board's staff responded to questions regarding the money market 
conditions, bank reserves, and monetary and credit aggregates that 
might prove consistent with the policy objectives of the Federal Open 
Market Committee in the light of the newly emerging circumstances. 
There followed a discussion regarding the outlook for interest rates 
and the possibility that ceilings might be imposed on such rates. 
All members of the staff except the following then withdrew 
from the meeting: Messrs. Holland, Broida, Bernard, Partee, Molony, 
Coyne, O'Brien, Gramley, Keir, and Gemmill. 
Discount rates. The directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
St. Louis and Dallas had acted on August 12, 1971, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, to increase to 5-1/2 per 
cent the rate on discounts for and advances to member banks under 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act; they had also acted 
to establish appropriately corresponding subsidiary rates on advances 
under other sections of the Act. 
17 The conference call report was given by Messrs. Bodner and Cooper 
at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Other officials in attendance 
at the New York Bank were Messrs. Hayes, Holmes, and Sternlight. 
Mr. Kimbrel also participated in the conference call from the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
•A w 
A 
k\ 

206S 
8/16/71 
-3-
After consideration of the proposed increases, the Board 
decided by unanimous vote to disapprove the higher rate in light of 
the President's major economic policy announcements the previous day 
and the attendant changes in the outlook for interest rates and the 
economy. 
The Board's Executive Director was instructed to convey the 
reasons for the Board's decision to the two Federal Reserve Banks. 
Copies of the identical letters sent to Presidents Francis and Coldwell 
are attached under Item No. 1. 
v u r• 
• 11 A",.' ' i ' . • 
•> <1 .;' 
• • 
The Board then approved unanimously the actions taken on 
•, ••.•;. • r • r; • . ' . •. 
.. 
• • .; 
August 12, 1971, by the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of 
ui? joc economic 
i 
uvh* •". c- v> 
v:. 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, Minneapolis, and Kansas City 
establishing without change the rates on discounts and advances in 
.Lnci'^a^H In, rHe -1 
'/cu • n"'-
their existing schedules, with the understanding that appropriate 
.Ii 
} i 
i c c 
i r 
> -i 
' 
I 
1 
: - 
' ' 
• 
i 
' 
advice would be sent to the respective Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2Q55I 
Item NO 
8/16/71 
August 19, 1971 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
Dear Darryl: 
As you were informed by telephone, the Board 
voted on August 16 to disapprove the pending increase in 
your Bank's discount rate to 5-1/2 per cent which your 
Board of Directors voted to establish on August 12. The 
Board's action was taken in light of the President's 
major economic policy announcements on August 13 and the 
attendant changes in financial market conditions and in 
the outlook for interest rates and the economy. Against 
this newly emerging background the Board concluded that 
an increase in the discount rate would not now be desir-
able. The Board appreciates that your directors reached 
their decision prior to the President's announcements 
and that they undoubtedly view the discount rate in a 
new light as a consequence of the new economic program. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bob 
Robert C. Holland 
Executive Director 

13 n A R n OF DDVERND R 5 
OK THL 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, O. C. SR5SI 
August 18, 1971 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Dear Phil: 
As you were informed by telephone, the Board 
voted on August 16 to disapprove the pending increase in 
your Bank's discount rate to 5-1/2 per cent which your 
Board of Directors voted to establish on August 12. The' 
Board's action was taken in light of the President's 
major economic policy announcements on August 15 and the 
attendant changes in financial market conditions and in 
the outlook for interest rates and the economy. 
Against 
this newly emerging background the Board concluded that 
an increase in the discount rate would not now be desir-
able. The Board appreciates that your directors reached 
their decision prior to the President's announcements 
and that they undoubtedly view the discount rate in a 
new light as a consequence of the new economic program. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Bob 
Robert C. Holland 
Executive Director 
