FR 609 
Minutes for 
September 3, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
; I 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
( i 
i. 
/ Qh 
U 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 3, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Heyde, Lynch, Mertz, and Noble of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Lougee and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Burton of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company (Item No. 1). 
Unanimous approval was given to a letter to The Detroit Bank and Trust 
Company, Detroit, Michigan, approving the establishment of a branch in 
London, England. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Ladoga State Bank, Ladoga, 
Indiana, into The First National Bank and Trust Company of Crawfordsville, 

3356 
9/3/68 
-2-
Crawfordsville, Indiana, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing 
between The Ladoga State Bank and The First National 
Bank and Trust Company of Crawfordsville, and the 
overall competitive effect would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Azusa and Azusa Valley Savings 
Bank, both of Azusa, California, into Wells Fargo Bank, National 
Association, San Francisco, California, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
Virtually no present competition would be eliminated 
by the merger of The First National Bank of Azusa and Azusa 
Valley Savings Bank, both of Azusa, California, into Wells 
Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California. 
Consummation of the transaction would eliminate some poten-
tial competition particularly in view of Wells Fargo Bank's 
recent extension of its market area into southern California 
through de novo branching. The overall competitive effect 
would be slightly adverse. 
Application of United Virginia Bankshares (Items 2-4). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on August 2, 1968, of the application of United 
Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire 
90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Staunton Bank, N. A., 
Staunton, Virginia, a proposed new bank into which would be merged 
The National Valley Bank of Staunton, Staunton, Virginia, under the 
charter of the former and the title of the latter. A dissenting 
statement by Governor Robertson also had been distributed. 

9/3/68 
-3-
The Board also had before it copies of a report from the 
Department of Justice concerning the proposed transaction, which 
report was received subsequent to the date of the Board's decision. 
After discussion, the issuance of the order and statement was 
authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as 
Items 2 and 3. A copy of Governor Robertson's dissenting statement 
is attached as Item No. 4. 
Application of Citizens State Bank (Items 5 and 6). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board
1 
approval on August 23, 1968, of the application of The Citizens State 
Bank, Sturgis, Michigan, to acquire the assets and assume the deposit 
liabilities of E. Hill & Sons State Bank & Trust Company, Colon, 
Michigan. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 5 and 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3358 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/3/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 3, 1968. 
The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, 
201-211 West Fort Street, 
Detroit, Michigan. 48231 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and main-
tain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of 
Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1969, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. Please advise the Board of 
Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch 
is opened for business, furnishing information as to the exact loca-
tion of the branch. The Board should also be promptly informed of any 
tuture change in location of the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
o 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
^ t h minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of 
Payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in 
he conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
or your bank, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3359 
Item No. 2 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
9/3/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED,
 
1 
Richmond, Virginia, 
for approval of acquisition of 90 per
 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
' 
Staunton Bank, N.A., Staunton, Virginia,
 
1 
a proposed new bank. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Virginia Bankshares 
Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, for the Board's prior approval of 
the acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Staunton Bank, N.A., Staunton, Virginia, a proposed new bank into 
which will be merged The National Valley Bank of Staunton, Staunton, 
Virginia, under the charter of the former and the title of the latter. 

33 oO 
-2-
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
the Comptroller of the Currency of receipt of the application and 
requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on June 18, 1968 (33 Federal Register 8861), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of September, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, 
and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin and Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
STAUNTON BANK, N.A., STAUNTON, VIRGINIA 
STATEMENT 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
acquisition of 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Staunton 
Bank, N.A., Staunton, Virginia, a proposed new bank into which would 
be merged The National Valley Bank of Staunton, Staunton, Virginia 
("National Valley"), under the charter of the former and the title of 
the latter. 
Applicant controls nine banks with total deposits of $875 
1/ 
million. 
National Valley has $19.7 million in deposits.* 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
of the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
t. 
• 
' ' 
. 
• ' i , 
the application. 
1/ All banking data are as of December 30, 1967, unless otherwise noted. 
Item No. 3 
9/3/68 

-2-
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisi 
tion the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substan-
tially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which 
in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board 
finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are 
clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served. In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The nine largest 
banking organizations in Virginia (the only banking organizations with 
more than $100 million in deposits) control 62.8 per cent of the total 
deposits held 
by all insured commercial banks located in the State. 
Applicant, one of five bank holding companies located in Virginia, 
is the largest banking organization in the State, and controls 14.3 
per cent of such deposits. National Valley holds only .3 per cent of 
State deposits. 

National Valley's only office is located in Staunton, an 
independent city within the borders of Augusta County. Seven banks, 
operating 20 offices, are located in Augusta County. National Valley 
ranks third among these banks, with 19.6 per cent of the total deposits 
2/ 
of banks in the county. 
The two largest banks in the State (each of 
which has four offices in the county) account for 29.7 per cent and 
24.4 per cent of county deposits, respectively. The fourth and fifth 
largest banks are, respectively, an independent local bank with two 
offices and 9.1 per cent of deposits in the county, and a subsidiary 
of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, a registered bank holding com-
pany, which, with three offices, accounts for 7.5 per cent of such 
deposits. The remaining two banks, each with three offices in the 
county, have 5.2 per cent and 4.5 per cent of county deposits. 
None of Applicant's subsidiary banks' offices are located in 
Augusta County, and none competes significantly with National Valley. 
Applicant's largest subsidiary, State-Planters Bank of Commerce and 
Trusts, Richmond ($391 million deposits), is located 109 miles east 
of Staunton; its nearest subsidiaries, Spotswood Bank, Harrisonburg 
($21 
million deposits), and Rockbridge Bank and Trust Company, Lexing-
ton ($10.6 million deposits), are located 25 miles to the north and 
J4 miles to the south, respectively. 
In no case does the business 
2/ 
As of June 30, 1966, the most recent date for which data are avail-
able for deposits of banks by counties. References to Augusta County 
herein, unless otherwise noted, are to the entire area encompassed 
within the borders of the county, including the independent cities of 
Staunton and Waynesboro. 

3364; 
-2-
derived by National Valley from an area served by a subsidiary of 
Applicant amount to more than 2.3 per cent of the former's loan or 
deposit totals. Of Applicant
1
s subsidiaries, only Spotswood Bank 
derives significant business from the area served by National Valley. 
This business consists of consumer loans amounting to 1.2 per cent of 
the consumer loans of Spotswood Bank and 4.8 per cent of the total 
amount of such loans held by National Valley. Most of this business 
apparently originated during the period prior to October 1, 1966, at 
which time Spotswood Bank was operating as an industrial loan cor-
poration and was actively extending credit to borrowers in the 
Staunton area. At present the business of Spotswood Bank originat-
ing outside its local area appears to be tapering off markedly. 
In view of the minimal effect which Applicant's proposal would 
have on the present level of State-wide concentration, and in view of 
the fact that consummation of the proposal would not eliminate signi-
ficant competition between National Valley and present Applicant 
subsidiaries, it does not appear that these considerations pose a 
serious obstacle to approval of the application. Also, since the 
proposed acquisition represents Applicant's initial entry into 
Augusta County, concentration in that area would not be affected. 
We turn next to analysis of the proposal's probable effect 
on potential competition. In that connection, the Board has carefully 
considered the comments submitted to it by the United States Depart-
ment of Justice, which concluded, on the basis of the present level of 

t* 
-2-
concentration in Staunton and Augusta County, coupled with Applicant's 
posture as one of the most likely potential entrants into that market 
area, that consummation of the proposal "would have a significantly 
adverse effect upon potential competition." 
In those cases involving a concentrated market which can well 
support additional participants, the Board shares the Department's 
concern that entry by a large banking organization through a major 
acquisition may foreclose entry by such organization through preferable 
3/ 
alternative means, and raise barriers to entry by others. 
In 
addition, if the bank proposed to be.acquired is one which' could be 
the lead bank or a significant participant in a new holding company, 
its affiliation with one of the largest existing organizations may have 
even broader adverse implications for potential competition. But the 
Board does not view the market or the bank involved in the present 
case as providing a basis for application of these considerations. 
Virginia law does not permit any of Applicant's subsidiaries 
to branch de novo into an area in which it would compete with National 
Valley or permit the latter to expand by de novo branching into an 
area served by a subsidiary of Applicant. Any theory of anticompeti-
> ; • 
tive impact predicated upon the elimination of potential competition 
must therefore contemplate either the alternative entry of Applicant 
3/ See, e.g., Application of BT New York Corporation, 54 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 225 (1960); Application of Allied Bankshares Corp., 
53 Federal Reserve Bulletin 763 (1967). 
l i G 

into Augusta County - through organization and acquisition of a new 
bank or through the acquisition of a smaller existing bank - or a 
significant contribution which National Valley could make to another 
holding company capable of offering competition to Applicant's sub-
sidiaries. 
With respect to the possibility of the implementation of 
alternative means of entry by Applicant, assessment of the likelihood 
and desirability of new entry into a banking market must take into 
account the opportunity • which the market in question provides to the 
potential entrant. Considering the 125,000 population of the entire 
Augusta County area, and the amount of banking business generated 
therein (about $100 million in deposits held by banking offices located 
in the area), the seven banks and 20 banking offices serving the area 
do not seem so few in number as to make the area especially attrac-
tive to potential entrants; nor do they make it imperative that a mere 
possibility of such entry be preserved; nor similarly do they assure 
that supervisory approval prerequisite to new entry could be readily 
obtained. The fact that the banks presently operating in the area include 
the two largest banks in the State, as well as a subsidiary of the State's 
third largest bank holding company, reinforces these conclusions. 
Further, although there are three smaller independent banks in the 
area, any of which, assuming its interest in such a proposal, could 
provide an alternative vehicle for entry by Applicant, a comparison 

"2! 
-7-
of the relative competitive aggressiveness of those banks with that 
of National Valley makes questionable any conclusion that acquisition 
of the latter, despite its greater size, is the less desirable alter-
native. 
Finally, National Valley's apparent lack of aggressiveness 
and disinterest in expansion (as illustrated, for example, by the fact 
that it is the only single office bank in Augusta Ccunty) make it highly 
unlikely that it would be a moving force in the formation of a new 
holding company, and its management succession difficulties, noted 
hereinafter, preclude any conclusion that the bank would be a signifi-
cant source of strength for prospective affiliate banks. Rather, it 
is the Board's view that National Valley is itself in need of stronger 
management direction, such as affiliation with Applicant could provide, 
and that the provision of that direction would make it a more signifi-
cant competitive alternative to the other banks operating within its 
market area. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
that consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a 
monopoly, nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or 
attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any relevant area, 
nor would such consummation substantially lessen competition, tend to 
create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition, and that of its subsidiary banks, is 
t V 
t 

vi litiS 
-2-
regarded as generally satisfactory. Its prospects are also regarded as 
favorable, as are those of its subsidiary banks. The management of 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks is considered capable and experi-
enced and in all respects satisfactory. 
National Valley's financial condition is regarded as satis-
factory. Its management, however, was considerably weakened by the 
death, in 1967, of the president who had formerly dominated its 
management and policies. While his successor has had forty-six 
years of service with the bank, his experience does not encompass all 
areas of bank management; he is already past the usual retirement age; 
and the bank is without a qualified successor. While the record does 
not establish that Applicant's assistance is essential to the solution 
of these difficulties, consummation of the present proposal would 
assure their satisfactory solution, and consideration of this factor 
therefore provides some weight toward approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The con-
venience and needs of customers in those areas in which Applicant's 
present subsidiaries are located would not be affected by consummation 
of the proposal. 
It does not appear, and Applicant does not contend, that 
there are banking needs in Staunton or Augusta County which are not 
being served by the banks located therein. Rather, Applicant contends 
that National Valley, partly because of the highly conservative 
policies followed for many years by its former president, has not 

-2-
kept pace with the needs of the community and is not an aggressive 
competitor in the banking business. Service deficiencies of National 
Valley appear to exist in the areas of consumer lending, small busi-
ness financing, and college tuition loans. In addition to supplying 
needed management personnel, Applicant proposes to assist National 
Valley in the following respects: 
prompt modification and 
moderni-
zation of the bank's present quarters; prompt initiation of a 
program to provide new branches; provision of computer facilities; 
expansion of trust and loan services; and implementation of an 
aggressive marketing program. Applicant has demonstrated its 
willingness and ability to strengthen management and provide for 
effective administration of banks which it has previously acquired, 
and it appears that National Valley and, indirectly, the banking 
customers of the community, would receive significant benefits 
from the proposed affiliation. Consequently, this factor is 
regarded as favorable to approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
September 
3, 1968 

3 . 1 7 0 
Item No. 4 
9/3/68 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
There have been numerous occasions on which I, either 
concurring in a majority action of the Board or dissenting from such 
action, have stated my concern over the clear effect of particular 
decisions in speeding the trend toward undue concentration of banking 
resources in a few large organizations to the detriment of viable 
competition and, ultimately, the public interest. On each of these 
occasions I have, in one form or another, emphasized and re-emphasized 
my concern, asserting that it paralleled the concern of Congress as 
reflected in its enactment of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and 
in the 1966 amendments to that Act. The latter amendments establish 
standards uniform with those found in the Bank Merger Act of 1960, as 
amended in 1966. The amended provisions of the Bank Holding Company 
Act and the Merger Act incorporated the prohibition of section 7 of the 
Clayton Act with respect to acquisitions whose effect may be "substan-
tially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly" and made 
clear that the competitive standard to be applied in passing upon bank 
holding company and merger applications was that of the antitrust laws, 
statutes, and case law. (See H.R. Rep. No. 1221, 89th Cong., 2d Sess. 3 
(1966).) 
1
 • •" " i 
Application of the antitrust laws, as reflected in section 3 
°f the Bank Holding Company Act, to United Virginia Banlcshares' proposal 
to acquire The National Valley Bank of Staunton permits, in my judgment, 
but one course of action - denial of the application. Five bank holding 
companies now control 37 per cent of the total deposits of all commercial 

-2-
banks in the State of Virginia. The nine largest banking organizations 
in the State control 63 per cent of such deposits. Applicant, the 
largest banking organization in the State, controls 14.3 per cent of 
the total deposits in the State, operating nine banks with 86 offices. 
Approval of this application, the majority notes, will increase this 
control percentage by less than one-half of 1 per cent. I recall that, 
similarly, in approving Applicant's last bank acquisition, in 1966, the 
Board noted that such acquisition would increase Applicant's control of 
the total deposits by but .2 per cent. At that time Applicant controlled 
12 per cent of the total deposits in the State, and the then four bank 
holding companies in the State controlled 27 per cent of such deposits. 
In a two-year period, 12.1 per cent has grown to 14.3 per cent and 
27.7 per cent has become 37 per cent. As I have often noted, citing 
the Supreme Court decision in United States v. Philadelphia National Bank, 
u. S. 321, "if concentration is already great, the importance of pre-
venting slight increases in concentration and so preserving the possibility 
°f eventual deconcentration is correspondingly great." It is my judgment 
that the extent to which banking resources in the State of Virginia have 
now been concentrated in a few large organizations requires decisional 
action by the Board that will encourage reduction in the existing concen-
tration level. 
* 
ir 
& • 
The majority has found that considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the community involved outweigh any anticompet-
itive aspects of this proposal, thus justifying, and even affirmatively 

3372 
-2-
supporting approval. In ray judgment, the record will not support this 
conclusion. Thus, I am unable to conclude, as did the majority, that 
a change by Applicant in National Valley's asserted unaggressive 
attitude is a consideration outweighing the undue anticompetitive 
aspects of this proposal. While National Valley has not grown as rapidly 
as its competitors, the record reflects steady and sound growth for the 
bank. Any deficiencies in its service, either with respect to type or 
scope, are susceptible of remedy without reference to Applicant's 
acquisition proposal. Further, if rendition of aggressive services 
is a decisive factor, the Staunton community has presently available 
to it, within Augusta County, 19 offices of six other banks, including 
the two largest banks in the State. I am unable to conclude that any 
unserved need has been established with respect to the community involved. 
, A second circumstance relied upon by the majority in its 
approval action is the managerial problem in National Valley Bank. 
I find no evidence of record to indicate that National Valley has 
looked for any solution to its managerial problem other than Applicant's 
proposal. Inasmuch as I view Applicant's proposal as an anti-
competitive solution to any problem that exists with respect to National 
Valley, and finding no evidence of effort on Bank's part to resolve its 
problems in a less anticompetitive manner, I would foreclose use by 
y 
• 
i t . " 
Applicant and Bank of the Bank Holding Company Act as an easy out for 
operating problems that probably could be solved in a manner that 
would not diminish competition. 
I would deny the application. 
September 3, 1968 

3 3 7 3 
Item No. 5 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
9/3/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C. 
In the Hatter of the Application of
 
1 
THE CITIZENS STATE BANK
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of assets of 
' 
E. Hill & Sons State Bank & Trust Company
 1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK'S ASSETS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
-.. -
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C, 1828(c)), an application by The Citizens State 
Bank, Sturgis, Michigan, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
System, for the Board's prior approval of its acquisition of assets and 
assumption of deposit liabilities of E. Hill & Sons State Bank & Trust 
• * 
>•' 
-i* 
Company, Colon, Michigan, and, as an incident thereto, The Citizens State 
Bank has applied, under section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act, for the 
Board's prior approval of the establishment by that bank of a branch at 
the location of the sole office of E. Hill & Sons State Bank & Trust 
Company. Notice of the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of 
deposit liabilities, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
pursuant to said Act. 

Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed transaction, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said applications be and hereby 
are approved, provided that said acquisition of assets and assumption 
°f deposit liabilities and establishment of the branch shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 3rd day of September, 1963. 
By order of*the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, 
and Governors Daane, Ilaisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman liartin, and 
Governors Hitchell and Brimmer. 
(signed) 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 

O
i
j 
<
o 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS
 
I t e n
;
 N o
'
 
6 
9/3/68 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE CITIZENS STATE BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF ASSETS OF 
E . HILL & SONS STATE BANK & TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
• 
The Citizens State Bank, Sturgis, Michigan ("Sturgis Bank"), 
with total deposits of about $20.2 million, has applied, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
o f
 its acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of 
E
. Hill & Sons State Bank & Trust Company, Colon, Michigan ("Colon 
Bank"), which has total deposits of about $4.9 million.^ As an 
incident to the transaction, the sole office of Colon Bank would become 
a
 branch of Sturgis Bank, increasing the number of its offices to three. 
Competition. - Sturgis Bank operates its head office and sole 
branch in Sturgis (population about 8,900); the sole office of Colon Bank 
is about 15 miles north of Sturgis in Colon (population about 1,100). 
Both Sturgis and Colon are located in St. Joseph County (population 
about 42,000). 
Because of the size of Sturgis Bank and Colon Bank and the 
distances separating their offices, there is little meaningful competition 
between them. Michigan law does not permit a bank to establish a de novo 
1./ Figures are as of December 31, 1967. 

3 3 7 8 
-2-
branch in any town, other than the town in which it is located, if 
another bank has its home office or a branch already located there. 
Thus, neither of the two banks could enter the community of the other. 
In addition to Sturgis Bank, there is one other commercial 
bank headquartered in Sturgis with deposits of about $15 million. The 
* 
, 
f 
>. 
competitive relationship between these two banks would not be altered 
significantly through the resources gained by Sturgis Bank from the 
proposed transaction. The closest banking office to Colon Bank is a 
branch of a much larger bank (headquartered in Battle Creek) located 
about six miles north of Colon. The closest unit bank is located about 
seven miles south of Colon and is slightly smaller than Colon Bank. 
However, that bank is also about eight miles from Sturgis and currently 
competes effectively with both banks located there. There are also 
offices of six other banks within approximately 20 miles of either Sturgis 
or Colon, including offices of two substantially larger banks headquartered 
in Kalamazoo. 
The transaction would have no material effect on competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to each of the banks are reasonably satisfactory, 
as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The transaction 
uould affect banking convenience and needs only in the area presently 
served by Colon Bank. The lending limit of the Colon office would be 
increased substantially, the interest rate paid on savings deposits would 
e increased, and the banking hours of the office would be extended. In 

« 
-3-
addition, the conversion of Colon Bank into an office of Sturgis Bank 
would provide in the Colon area more convenient access to broader credit 
accommodations and to a generally wider range of banking services. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, the 
proposed transaction would benefit the banking convenience and needs of 
the area presently served by Colon Bank and would have no material 
.
 c o n s
equences for banking competition* 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
September 3, 1968. 
