MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 24, 1969 

2358 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 24, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
kfc&U 
^ :4 *:, 
u \ t J; ;: • . ; 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

7/24/69 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Bank of America. Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, San Francisco, California, several years ago had held 
sizable deposits from the Bank for International Settlements at its 
London branch. However, the bank contended that for some time it had 
been unable to attract BIS deposits because, in contrast to other United 
States banks operating in London, it had been unwilling to agree that 
any such deposits would also be payable in the United States. The bank 
did not believe that such agreements were proper banking policy. In 
these circumstances, the bank wanted to solicit BIS deposits for place-
m e
n t in its Virgin Islands branches. Even though such deposits would 
b e
 payable only in the Virgin Islands, the fact that the Virgin Islands 
a United States possession might satisfy the concern of the BIS about 
the ultimate responsibility of United States head offices to pay deposits 
lodged in branches in foreign countries. For such deposits, Bank of 
America would pay a higher rate than would be paid in its United States 
offices, reflecting the absence of reserve requirements on deposits in 
the Virgin Islands. In view of the Board's letter of June 3, 1969, to 
a
H member banks with foreign branches regarding solicitation and accep-
tance of deposits at foreign branches, the bank had inquired whether it 

2360 
7/24/69 
-3-
would be appropriate to accept deposits from the BIS at its Virgin 
Islands branches. 
The Board discussed the question raised by Bank of America 
at its meeting on June 12, 1969, and requested the staff to provide 
additional information regarding certain aspects of the arrangements 
contemplated. Mr. Dahl responded to the Board's request in a memorandum 
dated July 14. He noted that the request of Bank of America might be 
academic, in view of the prospective adoption of amendments to Regula-
tion M, Foreign Activities of National Banks, that would in effect 
remove the advantage Bank of America sought through using its Virgin 
Islands branches rather than its London branch. He expressed the view 
that in the circumstances cited there would seem to be no reason to 
object to the use of Bank of America's Virgin Islands branches for 
deposits from the BIS. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement that the 
arrangements contemplated by Bank of America should not be regarded as 
Permissible. It was understood that the bank would be apprised informally 
°f the Board's position. 
Examinations of foreign branches. In a memorandum dated 
October 24, 1968, regarding surveillance of foreign branches of U.S. 
banks Messrs. Dahl and Gemmill concluded that, given the present scale 
a n
d nature of branch activities, existing procedures of surveying branch 

7/24/69 
-4-
operations on the basis of head-office records were no longer resulting 
in a satisfactory appraisal of such operations or of the over-all con-
dition of State member banks with foreign branches. They further con-
cluded that the procedures were not productive of the information necessary 
for regulatory purposes or helpful in the general analysis and under-
standing of the operations of foreign branches and the relationship of 
those operations to the total international activities of U.S. banks. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation, in a memorandum 
dated June 30, 1969, pursued the theme of the conclusions reached by 
Messrs. Gemmill and Dahl and stated that developments of recent months 
had reinforced the conviction that on-site examinations of the overseas 
branches of State member banks would add materially to the supervision 
°f foreign branch activities. 
(In a letter dated May 8, 1969, President 
Hayes of the New York Reserve Bank had urged the reinstitution of on-site 
examinations of foreign branches.) The Division expressed the view that 
it would seem desirable at the present time to acquire some experience 
that would assist in further consideration and planning of the ways to 
Provide effective supervision of foreign branches. Accordingly, the 
Division recommended that the Board authorize a pilot project of on-site 
examinations of some foreign branches, beginning in September if possible. 
Understandings of the organization and scope of such examinations were 
s
et forth in the memorandum. Since the proposed pilot project would 
include branches of banks located in the New York and Philadelphia Districts, 

2362 
7/24/69 
-5-
the Division suggested that letters be sent to President Hayes and 
President Bopp, of the New York and Philadelphia Reserve Banks, respec-
tively, in substantially the form of a draft attached to the memorandum. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously 
approved the staff recommendation. Copies of the letters sent to 
Presidents Hayes and Bopp are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum dated July 22, 1969, 
Mr. Broida had distributed a draft of policy record entry covering the 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on April 29, 1969. It was 
Proposed to release the entry to the press on Monday, July 28, and the 
entry was now being submitted for final review by the Board prior to 
its release. The entry had been approved by the Board on June 26 and 
Subsequently distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, who had made 
no suggestions for changes. 
The release of the entry to the press on Monday, July 28, was 
•§£Proved unanimously. 
With a memorandum dated July 22, 1969, Mr. Broida had submitted 
a
 draft of policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open 
Market Committee held on May 27, 1969. The draft entry took account of 
comments received from Committee members and staff following distribution 
a preliminary draft. The entry was now presented for approval by the 
Board for inclusion in its Annual Report for 1969. 

7/24/69 
-6-
The policy record entry was unanimously approved for inclusion 
in the Board's Annual Report. It was understood that the entry would 
be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for information 
but with an indication of the date by which any further comments should 
be received. It was contemplated that the entry would be released to 
the press about August 25, 1969, after final review by the Board. 
Hempstead Bank. The Board authorized the issuance of an order 
and statement reflecting its approval, on July 17, 1969, of the 
application of Hempstead Bank, Hempstead, New York, to merge with 
Matinecock Bank, Locust Valley, New York. Copies of the documents are 
attached under Item No. 3. 
First Empire State Corporation. With a memorandum dated July 18, 
1969, the Legal Division had submitted drafts of an order and statement 
reflecting the Board's approval, on June 25, 1969, of the application of 
p
irst Empire State Corporation, Buffalo, New York, to become a bank 
holding company through acquisition of shares of four banks in the State 
o f
 New York. Chairman Martin and Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel 
had voted in favor of the application; Governors Robertson, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill had voted for denial. 
In a memorandum dated July 23, 1969, Governor Maisel requested 
fc
hat the Board reconsider the application. During the Board's discussion 
o f
 the merits of the case he had requested additional information that 
W a s 
n
°t then available. Since then he had had an opportunity to examine the 

7/24/69 
-7-
proposed documents and, pending the Board's discussion of the matter, it 
seemed clear to him that his vote should be altered. 
At today's meeting the Board unanimously voted to reconsider 
the application. It was understood that the topic would be docketed 
for consideration at a time when all members of the Board could 
participate in the discussion. 
V-loan interest rates. In a letter dated May 9, 1969, the 
Board had asked the V-loan guaranteeing agencies, the Treasury Depart-
m
ent, and the Federal Reserve Banks (1) what they considered to be an 
appropriate interest rate on V-loans (lenders were unwilling to make 
V-loans at the current rate of 7-1/2 per cent), and (2) whether there 
was still a need for the V-loan program or whether its termination should 
be recommended to Congress. In a memorandum dated July 15, 1969, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations summarized the responses to 
the Board's inquiry. A majority of the respondents felt that, although 
there was little V-loan activity at the present time, the program should 
not be terminated. The predominant view was that the V-loan interest 
r a
t e should be increased to 9 per cent, or that it should be fixed at 
1-1/2 per cent above the prime rate. 
Discussion at today's meeting indicated reluctance on the part 
members of the Board either to publish a rate that would reflect a 
further upward movement in the cost of borrowed money or to tie the rate 
to the prime rate, thus in effect letting it be set by commercial banks. 

23i5 
i 
7/24/69 
-8-
The Board agreed upon a procedure under which each of the 
guaranteeing agencies would propose for the Board's consideration the 
rate that it considered necessary in order to obtain any particular 
loan. Letters reflecting that procedure were sent to the guaranteeing 
agencies. A copy of one such letter is attached as Item No. 4. 
Amendment to Regulation D. The Board had published for comment 
Proposed amendments to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, designed 
to prevent member banks from reducing their reserve requirements by 
transferring funds through head offices to and from foreign branches. 
In a memorandum dated July 23, 1969, Messrs. Dahl and Sanders outlined 
the transactions to which the Board's proposal was directed, summarized 
and analyzed the comments received, and recommended that the Board adopt, 
in lieu of the pending proposal, an amendment to Regulation D specifically 
including as demand deposits subject to reserves checks and drafts drawn 
°n domestic offices of a member bank by or on behalf of its foreign 
branch. 
After discussion at today's meeting the amendment was approved 
unanimously, effective July 31, 1969. It was agreed that a paragraph 
clarifying a 1928 ruling affecting the same area of bank transactions 
Would be added to the Federal Register notice regarding the amendment. 
Copies of the amendment and its accompanying press release are attached 
under Item No. 5. 

J
C
u
v
O 
• v •• • • • 
7/24/69 
-9-
•^'.•v^i '" •
 
1
 
. 
.... 
. 
. _ . 
Amendments to Regulations D and Q. In the fall of 1968 the 
Board had published for comment proposed amendments to Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, 
designed to narrow the scope of the repurchase agreement exemption from 
the definition of deposits. 
In a memorandum dated July 23, 1969, the 
Legal Division cited reasons in support of adoption of the amendments 
by the Board at the present time. 
After discussion at today's meeting the amendments were approved, 
I. effe ctive July 25, 1969, Governor Mitchell dissenting. Copies of the 
release 
amendments and their accompanying press^are attached under Item No. 6; 
the press release contains an explanation of Governor Mitchell's 
dissent. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
23 €7 
Item No. 1 
7/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E 5 P Q N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B C A R O 
JUL 2 5 1969 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board has reviewed its existing policy on examinations 
foreign branches of State member banks. As a result of that re-
view, which included consideration of your letter of May 8, 1969, the 
Board authorized the staff to plan pilot examinations of certain 
European branches to be conducted in the near future. 
It was thought 
that such pilot examinations would aid materially in further consid-
eration of the problem of providing adequate and effective supervision 
foreign branch operations. 
The Board believed that it would be helpful if these pilot 
examinations covered two Ijondon branch operations of New York banks, 
a s
 suggested in your letter, and also the London branch of a Phila-
delphia bank. 
It was felt that this approach would result in 
examinations of a broader spectrum of foreign branch operations and 
w
ould have advantages in terms of experience and training for exam-
ining personnel in another Reserve Bank with responsibilities for 
supervising State member banks with foreign branches. Mr. Dahl of 
the Board's staff was designated to coordinate the planning of these 
laminations. 
It would be appreciated if you would designate someone at 
the staff level to participate in the detailed planning of these 
e
xaminations so that immediate progress may be made, with a view to 
beginning the examinations in September. When the examinations take 
Place, the Board would have no objection to the participation of 
Vice President Piderit nor to his proposed visits to branches of 
°ther member banks. 
Very truly yours, 
(Sipped) Kenneth A. K<?r.;o* 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

23m 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• 
F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 0 N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
JUL 2 8 1969 
Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
The Board has reviewed its existing policy on examinations 
°f foreign branches of State member banks. As a result of that re-
view, the Board authorized the staff to plan pilot examinations of 
c
ertain European branches to be conducted in the near future. It 
thought that such pilot examinations would aid materially in 
farther consideration of the problem of providing adequate and effec-
tive supervision of foreign branch operations. 
The Board believed that it would be helpful if these pilot 
examinations covered not only some well-established branches of New 
ork banks, but also at least one of the newer foreign branch opera-
tions of a bank in another city. It was felt that this approach 
v
°uld result in examinations of a broader spectrum of foreign branch . 
operations and would have advantages in terms of experience and 
r
aining for examining personnel from several Reserve Banks with 
Responsibilities for supervising State member banks with foreign 
Ranches. 
k 
In view of the fairly recent establishment of London 
Ranches by certain Philadelphia banks, the Board thought that one 
those might be included in the overseas branches to be examined 
a n d
 that your bank might be willing to participate in this pilot 
operation. If you are agreeable, the Board would appreciate your 
S3
-gnating someone at the staff level to participate in the detailed 
P inning of the examinations, which Mr. Dahl of the Board
1
s staff 
i coordinate with a view to beginning the examinations in September. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenroa 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

23(>9 
Item No. 3 
7/24/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 1 
HEMPSTEAD BANIC
 
1 
for approval of merger with
 
1 
Matinecoclc Bank
 
1 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1028(c)), an application by 
Hempstead Bank, Hempstead, New York, a State member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank and Matinecoclc Bank, Locust Valley, Neu York, 
under the charter and name of Hempstead Bank. As an incident to 
the merger, the three offices of Matinecoclc Bank would become 
branches of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published pursuant to said 
Act. 

23 
-2-i 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the 
light of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports 
furnished by the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and 
hereby is approved, provided that said merger shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of 
this Order unless such period is e::tended for good cause by the 
Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this 24th day of July 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Haioel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
/signed/ Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2371 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY HEMPSTEAD BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
MATINECOCK BANK 
STATEMENT 
Hempstead Bank, Hempstead, New York, with total deposits 
of $133 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1823(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the merger 
of that bank with Matinecock Bank, Locust Valley, New York, which 
has total deposits of $21 million,-^ 
The banks would merge under 
the charter and name of Hempstead Bank, which is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, the three 
offices of Matinecock Bank would become branches of Hempstead 
Bank, increasing the number of its offices to 22. 
Competition. - The offices of both banks are in Nassau 
County, except for one branch of Hempstead Bank which is in Suffolk 
County. Hempstead Bank holds about 5 per cent of the deposits 
held by the more than 200 offices of 22 banks that operate in 
Nassau County; Matinecock Bank holds about 1 per cent of such deposits. 
1/ Figures are as of December 31, 1968. 

-2-i 
Matinecock Bank's main office is in Locust Valley and 
its 
two branches are in Bayville, in northern Nassau County, 
Hempstead Bank's main office and three of its branches are in 
Hempstead Village, which is about 15 miles south of Locust Valley, 
With three exceptions, the other offices of Hempstead Bank are 
10 miles or more from an office of Hatinecock Bank, 
The branches of Hempstead Bank in Oyster Bay, East 
Norwich,and Syosset range from 3.3 miles to 7,4 miles from the 
nearest office of Matinecock Bank and obtain about 4 per cent of 
their deposits and 5 per cent of their loans from the area served 
by Matinecock Bank; the latter derives about 3 per cent of its 
deposits and 3 per cent of its loans from the area served by 
Hempstead Bank's three nearest branches. Four other banks, with 
total deposits of $36 million, $42 million, $1,5 billion, and 
$2,3 billion operate 10 offices in northern Nassau County, 
The merger of Hempstead Bank and Matinecock would 
eliminate such competition as exists between them, as well as the 
potential for the development of additional competition. At the 
same time, however, the merger would remove home-office-protec-
tion from Locust Valley, thus opening the community to de novo 
branching by other bankc. Further, the banking options conve-
niently available to the residents of northern Nassau County are 

23 
-3-
not limited to the banking offices located there. About 60 per 
cent of the employed residents commute to work elsewhere in 
Nassau County or in New York City. 
The effect of the proposed merger on competition would 
be no more than slightly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to Hempstead Bank and Matinecoclc Bank 
are reasonably satisfactory, as they would be with respect to the 
resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The replace-
ment of ilatinecock Bank by offices of Hempstead Bank would make a 
broader range of banking services more conveniently available in 
the communities presently served by Matinecoclc Bank and, while there 
are a number of sources of such services already available, this 
factor is consistent with approval. Further, the removal of home-
office-protection from Locust Valley so that other banks may 
establish d£ novo branches there should benefit the banking conve-
nience and needs of the community in the future. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgment of the Board, 
the benefits of the proposed merger to the banking convenience and 
needs of the area served by Matinecoclc Bank x;ould offset the no more 
than slightly adverse effect on banking competition. 

: 
• -
W ' . M i 
m 
2374 
-4-
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved, 
July 24, 1969. 
» 
• 
. . • 
• 
'..
 
; 
• 
-
-
. < V 
: 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/24/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 8, 1969. 
Mr. J. M. Malloy, 
Deputy Assistant Secretary 
of Defense (Procurement), 
Department of Defense, 
Washington, D. C. 
20301 
Dear Mr. Malloy: 
This refers to the Board's letter of May 9, 1969, 
to the Secretaries of the Departments of the Army, Navy and 
Air Force and the Director of the Defense Supply Agency 
requesting their views with respect to certain questions con-
cerning the program of so-called "V-loans" guaranteed under the 
Defense Production Act of 1950, including particularly a 
suggestion that the maximum interest rate on such loans be 
increased from the present 7-1/2 per cent. 
After considering the replies to its letter from 
your Department and from the other guaranteeing agencies the 
Board has concluded that there is still some need for the 
V-loan program. With respect to the maximum interest rate on 
such loans, the Board is reluctant at this time to see any 
further upward movement in the cost of borrowed money. Never-
theless, the Board recognizes that if V-loans are to be made, 
they will have to be made at a rate of interest acceptable to 
the financing institution. Therefore, if your agency determines 
in any specific case that a V-loan is vital to the financing of 
an essential defense production contract and advises the Board 
that a certain interest rate, higher than the present 7-1/2 per 
cent maximum rate, is required, the Board will consider the 
matter promptly in the light of the facts presented. 
Very truly yours, 
tS&R&cdl Kennoth A. Kanvon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

For immediate release. 
Item No. 5 
7/24/69 
July 24, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
amended its rules governing member bank reserves (Regulation D) to 
limit, certain transactions involving member banks and foreign branches 
that have resulted in what the Board considers an unwarranted reduction 
in required reserves. 
The action, the outgrowth of further considera-
tion of a proposal published May 29, will become effective July 31, 1969. 
The amended rules will require member banks to include in 
deposits used to compute reserve requirements all so-called "London 
checks" and "bills payable checks" used in settling transactions 
involving foreign branches. 
Such checks have been used to effect repay-
ments of Euro-dollar borrowings and to settle transactions among foreign 
branches of different member banks. A number of banks have issued such 
checks without including them in gross demand deposits, as is required 
for officers' (e.g., cashiers') checks. At the same time, banks 
receiving such checks are allowed to deduct the amount from demand 
deposits used to compute reserve requirements. Use of these "check" 
devices has resulted in reduced reserves for the one day the check is 
in the collection process, and afforded some member banks special 
a
dvantage in using Euro-dollars for adjustment to domestic credit 
restraint. 
A copy of the amendment is attached. 
Attachment. 

2377 
' 
I 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
t. 
Certain Officers' Checks as Deposits 
1. Effective July 31, 1969, § 204.1(g) is amended to read 
as followsi 
(g) Gross demand deposits. The term "gross demand deposits" 
weans the sum of all demand deposits, including demand deposits to the 
' 
.; 
., , < 
credit of other banks, the United States, States, counties, school 
districts, and other governmentc.l subdivisions and municipalities, and 
•/V'm:, -. , 
all outstanding certified and officers' checks (including checks issued 
b
y the bank in payment of dividends and checks or drafts drawn by or on 
behalf of a foreign branch of a member bank on an account maintained by 
such a branch with a domestic office of the parent bank), and letters 
°f credit and travelers' checks sold for cash. 
vV i < Vf 
2a. By notice of proposed rule making dated May 29, 1969 
.:, . 
• • 
• , • 
' 
(Federal Register of June 7, 1969, 34 F.R. 9092), the Board of Governors 
Proposed to amend § 204.1(h) and § 204.2(b) to disallow as a deduction 
ttf/fv 
u > 
'Hm 

2378 
-2-i 
from deposits in computing a member bank's reserve requirements any 
"cash item in process of collection" or "balance due from other bank" 
that is credited to any account with or in a foreign branch of such 
bank. 
b . In view of the comments received, the Board has abandoned 
its proposal in favor of the amendment adopted. The amendment, like the 
Proposal, is directed against checks reflecting transfers involving 
foreign branches of member banks being used to effect an unwarranted 
reduction in required reserves. 
c„ When a bank borrows in the Eurodollar market through its 
foreign branch with the result that a deposit in some other member bank's 
domestic office is shifted to that branch, the transfer of funds may be 
effected by the issuance of a check by the other member bank for the 
credit 
of the borrowing bank's foreign branch. During the time such a 
°heck is cleared, the receiving bank treats it as a "cash item in the 
r 
Process of collection" and deducts the amount of the check from its 
^mand deposits subject to reserve requirements, thereby obtaining a 
benefit in the form of reduced required reserves for the one day the 
check is in the collection process. Rather than disallow this benefit 
Qtl
d disregard the means of repayment of the borrowing, which was the 
approach of the proposal, the Board has decided that the better approach 
v
°nld be to assure that such benefit is cancelled when the borrowing is 
t e
Paid at maturity through the issuance of an officer's check (or a 

* 
-3-
so-callcd "London check
1
 ) by the borrowing bank. Under the amendment, any 
: •; i v. C •' 
such check must be included by the bank as deposits in computing its reserve 
Jk 
, 
requirements. 
d. Over the past few months, the Board has observed a growing 
^ndency for member banks to account for certain transactions other than 
l
°an or deposit repayments in a way that will provide an unwarranted bene-
fit in computing reserve requirements. 
Such transactions involve what have 
b e
* n described as "London checks", mainly because of their use in settling 
transactions between member bank branches in London. 
For example, if a 
l
°ndon branch of one member bank borrows dollars from a London branch of 
Mother member bank, the lending branch may instruct its head office to 
^ k e the transfer on its behalf to the head office of the borrowing branch 
the account of the borrowing branch. The head office of the lending 
b a
n k issues a "London check" on behalf of its branch, but the head office^ 
d o
* s not include such check as deposits in computing its reserve require-
^ n t s . 
The head office of the borrowing branch takes the same cash-item 
A u c t i o n benefit described above. 
In repayment of the loan, the head 
o f
fice of the borrowing branch may issue a check that it describes as 
b
tlls payable" (or as a "London check"), which it excludes from deposits 
computing its reserve requirements. The head office of the lending 
b r
*nch takes a cash-item deduction on the basis of such check, and credits 
t h e
 check to its foreign branch account. A consequence of these trans-
i t i o n s is to free reserves for one day each for the borrowing and the 
Ending bank, without any change in aggregate liabilities to foreign 

/V, h * 
i - "" 
2380 
branches. Under the amendment, any such "London check" or "bills payable" 
check must be included by the respective issuing bank in its gross demand 
deposits subject to reserve requirements, just like any other "cashier's 
check" that it issues. 
d. 
In connection with this amendment, the Board noted an 
early ruling (1928 Federal Reserve Bulletin 656) to the effect that a 
c
heck issued by a member bank in repayment of Federal funds borrowed may 
ke excluded from its deposit liabilities. The Board pointed out that 
that ruling, which is in effect an exemption from the provision of 
8 204.1(h) that requires all officers' checks issued by a bank to be 
deluded in its gross demand deposits, was intended to apply only to re-
Payments in Federal funds transactions and does not apply to any other 
type of transactions. 
3. The effective date of the amendment was deferred for less 
^ a n the 30-day period referred to in section 553(d) of title 5, United 
States Code, because the Board found that the general credit situation 
the public interest compelled it to make the action effective no 
*
a
ter than the date adopted. 
Approved July 24, 1969. 
Mi * I, 
• H n , 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
I SEAL] 

. 
immediate release 
^
m 
f 
i 1 1 I I l| 
J. 
1 
} 
, 
\ 
' • 
,„ ' ,, 
' V V'^S 
Item No. 6 
7/24/69 
July 24, 1969. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System adopted today 
a -
earlier published proposal to limit the types of promissory notes which 
exempt from rules governing member bank reserves (Regulation D) and 
payment of interest on deposits (Regulation Q). 
The action amends those regulations to narrow the scope of a 
^tnber bank's liabilities 'inder repurchase agreements (those involving sales 
instruments with an agreement for subsequent repurchase) which are 
e
*etnpt from Regulations D and Q. 
Presently, the exemption from those regulations permits a member 
to 
exclude from deposits any indebtedness arising from a transfer of 
^ assets under a repurchase agreement. 
Under the amendment adopted today the following changes will be 
G
 in what constitutes a deposit: 
(1) Beginning August 28, 1969, every bank liability on a 
\
 P U r
chase agreement entered into on or after July 25, 1969, with a person 
toad 
°ther than n bank, involving any assets other than direct obligations of 
th 
e
 United States or its agencies (and obligations fully guaranteed by them) 
H U be a deposit liability subject to Regulations D and Q; and 
(2) Beginning August 28, 1969, every bank liability on a repurchase 
e
°ient entered into on or after July 25, 1969, with a person, other than 

• 1 
\ : J , 
; -J 
J 
$ 
M 
A 
M 
J\ 
• iii 
>,ii 
m
p 
-2-
a
 bank, with respect to a part interest in any obligation or obligations 
including U. S. government obligations) will be a deposit liability subject 
t o
 Regulations D and Q. 
Liabilities on any repurchase agreement with a bank will remain 
e X e
mpt from classification as a deposit. 
The Board said limiting the exemption appears necessary because of 
t 0 c e
nt and contemplated use by some banks of repurchase agreements to avoid 
r
°8erve requirements and the rules governing payment of interest on deposits, 
Governor Mitchell dissented on the grounds that repurchase agree-
entered into by banks to achieve liquidity in a period of monetary 
were no more inappropriate to monetary objectives than a sale of 
assets. 
In either case, in his opinion, restraint is not dissipated 
but. 
merely shifted in part from the bank and bank customers to market 
^ticipantj. % 
Moreover, in his view to add this action to the other amend-
to Regulation D announced today would run the risk of unduly severe 
*
s
ures on some sectors of the banking system. 
S-- v^ c 
' 
A copy of the amendments to Regulations D and Q is attached. 
- 0 -
V
t 
\ i 
u 
I 
i 

2383 
TITLE 12-^BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A — B O A R D OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D, QJ 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Liability on Repurchase Agreements as Deposits 
1. Effective July 25, 1969, § 204.1(f) and § 217.1(f) are 
amended to read as follows: 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and other 
obligations. For the purposes of this part, the term "deposits" shall 
b e 
deemed to include any promissory note, acknowledgment of advance, 
due bill, or similar instrument that is issued by a member bank prin-
cipally as a means of obtaining funds to be used in its banking business, 
except any such instrument (1) that is issued to another bank, (2) that 
evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of direct obligations 
or obligations that are fully guaranteed as tc principal and inter-
e s
t by, the United States or any agency thereof (other than a part 
interest in such obligations) that the bank is obligated to repurchase, 
0 r
 (3) that has an original maturity of more than 2 years and states 
e
*pressly that It is subordinated to the claims of depositors. This 
Paragraph shall not, however, affect (i) any instrument issued before 
June 27, 1966, or (il) any instrument that evidences an indebtedness 
a
rising from a transfer of assets under repurchase agreement issued 
before July 25, 1969, or (iii) until August 28, 1969, any instrument 
that evidences an indebtedness arising from a transfer of assets under 
re
Purch<xs« agreement Issued, renewed, or extended on or after July 25, 
1969. 

2384 
2a. The sole purpose of this amendment is to narrow the 
scope of the repurchase-agrecment exemption from the category of funds 
regarded as deposits for the purposes of rules governing member bank 
reserves (Regulation D) and payment of interest on deposits (Regulation Q). 
This action has become necessary in view of the use by certain banks of 
repurchase agreements as devices for raising funds to be used in the 
ordinary course of their business that are inconsistent with the purposes 
a
nd policies of the regulations and cannot be distinguished from deposit 
transactions, except on a formalistic basis, 
b. Specifically, the amendment makes the following changes in 
tthat constitutes a deposit: 
(1) 
Beginning August 28, 1969, every bank liability on an 
RP entered into on or after July 25, 1969, with a person other 
than a bank, involving any assets other than direct obligations 
of the United States or its agencies (and obligations fully 
guaranteed by them) will be a deposit liability subject to 
Regulations I) and Q; and 
(2) Beginning August 28, 1969, every bank liability on an 
RP entered into on or after July 25, 1969, with a person, other 
than a bank, with respect to a part interest in any obligation 
or obligations (including U . S. government obligations) will be 
a deposit liability subject to Regulations D and Q. 
c. Under the amendment, a member bank may continue to sell to 
a n
y person its entire interest in an obligation of the United States or 

its agencies (including obligations guaranteed by them), agree to 
repurchase such obligation, and classify its liability under such 
agreement as a nondeposit borrowing. 
In the Board's judgment, such an 
exemption from Regulations D and Q continues to be justified in view 
the practical limitations on the amount of securities of the types 
described that are available for use by banks in entering into such 
repurchase agreements and { more importantly, the responsibilities of 
the Board in assuming the orderly functioning of the market for such 
^ligations. 
d. Notice of proposed rule making with respect to this 
amendment was published in the FEDERAL REGISTER of October 1, 1968 
0 3 F.R. 14648), The amendment was adopted by the Board after consi-
deration of all relevant material, including communications received 
from interested persons. 
Adopted July 24, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
tSEAL] 
