PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 29, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
sV\. 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

l;*30 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 29, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Metzger and Mrs. Semia of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. McClellan of the Office of the Controller 
One-bank holding companies. 
Governor Robertson stated that 
late last Friday he received a telephone call from Senator Proxmire, 
who inquired whether the Board would recommend adoption of a bill on 
one-bank holding companies that he proposed to introduce, in preference 
to Senate Banking and Currency Committee Print No. 1. The members of 
the Board had now been furnished copies of two draft letters, one of 
which would express Board views and the other Governor Robertson's 
personal views, which Senator Proxmire had also requested. 

irm 
6/29/70 
-2-
After a discussion the letter expressing the Board's position 
was approved unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 1. A copy 
of the letter expressing Governor Robertson's personal views is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Oral presentation. 
Governor Mitchell reported briefly, as a 
matter of information, on the oral presentation held in Little Rock, 
Arkansas, last Friday with regard to the application of First Arkansas 
Bankstock Corporation to become a bank holding company. 
Financial developments. 
Governor Brimmer commented on a tele-
phone conversation he had had last Friday with a prominent banker who 
expressed concern about signs of deterioration in the commercial paper 
market and the resultant possibility that a number of corporations might 
soon find themselves in difficulty due to inability to roll over their 
maturing paper. 1J 
During a discussion that ensued a general view was expressed 
that although banks should be expected to take a constructive attitude 
in the current circumstances, it would not be appropriate for the Federal 
Reserve to exert influence upon banks to afford relief through making 
loans that were not considered creditworthy. 
It was also the view that 
any overt emphasis on the availability of the discount windows would 
be inadvisable, at least at this time. Question was raised about the 
current and prospective position of finance companies, and it was under-
stood that the staff would pursue informal inquiries with respect to 
1/ A memorandum prepared by Governor Brimmer on the basis of his con-
versation has been placed in the Board's files. 

1932 
6/29/70 
-3-
that point. Other questions related to the procedures and conditions 
attending use of the authority contained in section 13(3) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
It was understood that a discussion of legal and 
other factors involved in the use of that authority would be scheduled. 
In this connection, Governors Maisel and Brimmer expressed interest in 
clarifying certain points discussed in outstanding staff contingency 
planning papers, and it was agreed that the staff would furnish additional 
documentation on those points. 
Subordinated notes. Governor Robertson noted that it was planned 
to release this afternoon an announcement of the adoption of amendments 
to Regulations D and Q, as agreed upon at the Board meeting on June 12, 
1970, pertaining to subordinated notes and debentures issued by member 
banks, these amendments to become effective tomorrow. This afternoon, 
also, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation would announce that it 
was publishing for comment similar proposed rules pertaining to subor-
dinated notes and debentures issued by nonmember insured banks. 
Secretary's Note: Attached under Item No. 3 are 
copies of the Board's press statement and the 
amendments to Regulations D and Q as submitted 
to the Federal Register for publication. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

vsm 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 1 
6/29/70 
O F F I C E OF T H E VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
June 29, 1970. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
In a telephone conversation with me on Friday evening 
you asked whether the Board would recommend adoption of your 
proposed bill on one-bank holding companies in preference to 
Committee Print No. 1. Time has not permitted a thorough 
analysis of either bill, but there are two important differences 
between them which lead the Board to prefer Committee Print No. 
1. 
First, the Proxmire bill is a temporary measure, with 
an expiration date of June 30, 1972. During this temporary 
period, conglomerate holding companies with one bank would be 
permitted to expand in nonbanking fields without restriction, 
provided they divested their bank by the date on which the Act 
would expire. 
It seems likely that such a provision would 
simply postpone a final solution; meanwhile, the problem would 
have grown worse, since the conglomerate companies could be 
expected to continue to expand in the expectation that any 
legislation extending the termination date would also extend 
the date for divestiture of the bank. The Board unanimously 
recommends against inclusion of an expiration date. 
Second, the Proxmire bill omits other provisions 
included in Committee Print No. 1 that the Board has recommended. 
For example, a majority of the Board believes strongly that a 
revision of section 4(c)(8), as included in the Committee Print 
No. 1 but omitted from the Proxmire substitute bill, is desirable. 
The Board feels strongly that the time has come to 
deal promptly with the question of one-bank holding companies 
and we would prefer the approach of the committee print to the 
substitute. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

i 
\yjji. 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 B I 
1334 
Item No. 2 
6/29/70 
O F F I C C O F t h e : v i c e 
c h a i r m a n 
June 29, 19 70 
The Honorable William W. Proxmire 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
As acting Chairman of the Board, I have today sent 
you a letter expressing the Board's views on your pro-
posed revision of the pending legislation to amend the 
Bank Holding Company Act. This letter sets forth my per-
sonal views, which you have also requested. In view of 
the limited time available to respond to your request, 
I believe that the best approach is to state my general 
views on the pending legislation and indicate how your 
proposed revision meshes with those views. 
Expansion of scone of "bank holding company". I 
favor bringing one-bank holding companies within the cov-
erage of the Holding Company Act. I also favor elimi-
nating the present exemption for partnerships and expand-
ing the authority of the Board to determine that a company 
controls a bank. Your proposed bill would expand the scope 
of the Act along these lines. 
Grandfather clause. I favor exempting from the Act 
a company whose banking assets are less than $30 million and 
nonbanking assets are less than $10 million, irrespective 
of the number of banks controlled by such company as long 
as their offices are not located within a 30-mile radius 
of each other. I am opposed to any grandfather clause. 
Your proposed bill contains two such clauses. You would 
permit a one-bank holding company to continue to engage in 
activities in which it was engaged on January 1, 1969. 

The 
B O A R D 
o r 
G D V E K N D R 5 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
Honorable William W. Proxmire:--#2 
B Y 3 T E M 
li)35 
(This grandfather clause is preferable to some others that 
are under consideration in that it would prohibit expansion 
of a grandfathered company except by internal growth,) 
Second, you would permit a conglomerate one-bank holding 
company to expand without limitation, until June 30, 19 72, 
by acquiring any company as long as the net worth of its 
subsidiary bank is less than 50 per cent of the combined 
net worth of the holding company and all its subsidiaries. 
(My views against grandfather clauses are spelled out in 
some detail in my testimony before the House Banking Com-
mittee, a copy of which is enclosed for your convenient 
reference.) 
Expansion of permissible nonbanking activities. I 
favor expanding the scope of permissible nonbanking activi-
ties of holding companies to the extent that the Congress 
considers that such activities are appropriate for banks to 
engage in directly. The legislative vehicle for any such 
expansion by holding companies is section 4(c)(8) of the Act 
(and for the expansion of the powers of member banks is sec-
tion 5136 of the Revised Statutes). Your proposed bill con-
tains no amendment to section 4(c)(8). I believe that section 
4(c)(8) should at least be amended to exclude the requirement 
that any acquisition under that section shall be preceded by 
a hearing. 
Permanent legislation. I favor Congressional action 
in 1970 to resolve the various issues relating to the scope 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. Your proposal is for 
temporary legislation. I firmly believe that postponement 
from a time when the issues are already clearly drawn and 
the information upon which to make a decision is readily 
available tends to defeat the democratic process. In the 
event that legislation enacted by the Congress should upon 
further examination and in practice prove too restrictive, 
additional legislation can be enacted in response to the 
need. Under your approach, if the interest in the legis-
lation subsides over the next two years, nothing will have 
resulted from all the work and consideration that Congress 
and"others have given to this matter this year. 
Thank you for giving me the opportunity to express my 
views. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
..J. L. Robertson 

Item No. 3 
6/29/70 
For immediate release. 
June 29, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced new conditions that must be met for a subordinated note 
°r debenture issued by a member bank to be exempt from interest rate 
controls (Regulation Q) and reserve requirements (Regulation D). 
The new conditions, to become effective tomorrow (Tuesday, 
June 30, 1970), are designed to distinguish clearly between capital-type 
funds and deposit-type funds. 
Under the basic rule for new issues, in order for a subordinated 
note to be exempt from Regulations Q and D it must have an original 
Maturity of 7 years or more and be in an amount of at least $500. 
Certain 
statements, designed to assure that an investor in such notes understands 
t^e nature of his investment, must be included in each note. The issu-
ance of the notes must be approved by the bank's primary Federal bank 
supervisor. 
In exigent circumstances, the primary bank supervisor may 
Permit the issuance of nondeposit subordinated notes with a maturity 
less than 7 years. 
Formerly, the exemption from the regulations for subordinated 
n°tes applied if the maturity of the obligation was more than 2 years. 
changes became necessary in view of recent evidence that member 
^anks were able to market exempt obligations to acquire deposit-type 
funds. 

• 
1937 
- 2 -
Proposed changes in the Board's rules regarding subordinated 
ftotes 
were announced on Ilarch 2 . 
These changes in the Board's regulations were adopted 
following extensive consideration by the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee - the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairman of the 
Pederal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Chairman of the Federal 
/ 
• 
ll°me Loan Bank Board, and the Vice Chairman of the Board of Governors. 
A copy of the amendments in the form forwarded for publica-
tion in the Federal Register is attached. 
-0-
^•achment 
l-V-lt 

±939 
TITLE 12--BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D, Q] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 217--INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Certain Subordinated Obligations as Deposits 
1. Effective June 30, 1970, section 204.1(f)(3) of 
Regulation D and section 217.1(f)(3) of Regulation Q are amended 
to read as follows: 
§ 204.1 
n 
r 
, Definitions. 
5 /. 17 .1 
'.V * Vc 
(f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and other 
obligations. For the purposes of this Part, the term "deposits" also 
includes a member bank's liability on any promissory note, acknowledgment 
of advance, due bill, or similar obligation (written or oral) that is 
issued or undertaken by a member bank principally as a means of obtaining 
funds to be used in its banking business, except any such obligation that: 
<V Vc -k 
(3) (i) bears on its face, in bold-face type, the following: 
"This obligation is not a deposit and is not insured 
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation"; 
states expressly that it is subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
ineligible as collateral for a loan by the issuing bank; is unsecured; 

1939 
-2-
has an original maturity of 7 years or more; is in an amount of at 
least $5C0; and has been approved by the Comptroller of the Currency, 
in the case of a national bank, or by the Board of Governors, in the 
case of a State member bank, as an addition to the bank's capital 
structure; or (ii) meets all of the requirements in the preceding 
clause except maturity and with respect to which the Comptroller, 
in the case of a national bank, or the Board, in the case of a State 
member bank, has determined that exigent circumstances require the 
issuance of such obligation without regard to the provisions of this 
Part; or (iii) was issued or publicly offered before June 30, 1970, 
with an original maturity of more than 2 years; or 
it x Vr 
2a. The purpose of these amendments is to narrow the 
category of member bank subordinated notes that are exempt from member 
bank reserve requirements (Regulation D) and interest rate controls 
(Reg ulation Q). 
The amendments are designed to distinguish clearly 
between deposit-type funds and capital-type funds. Their adoption has 
become necessary in view of recent evidence that member banks are able 
t o acquire deposit-type funds by marketing subordinated obligations 
that are presently exempt from Regulations D and Q. 
b. Notice of proposed rule making with respect to these 
Qrncndments was published in the Federal Register of March 10, 1970 
F.R. 4307). 
The amendments were adopted by the Board after 
c°nsideration of all relevant material, including communications 

1940 
- 3 -
received from interested persons. 
The effective date was not deferred 
for the 30-day period required by section 553(d) of Title 5, United 
States Code. The Board found, when it published its proposal, that 
the public interest compelled action at the earliest practicable time, 
and, accordingly, it announced that it was considering adopting the 
amendments effective March 9, 1970. In the circumstances, deferral 
of the effective date would serve no useful purpose. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 12, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenven 
Deputy Secretary 
