MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 3, 1969 
ft 

?
n 
M 
3 2 6 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, November 3, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 

O'.ot.^j 
11/3/69 
-2-
Mr. Veenstra, Division of Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available 
members of the Board at the meeting held on Friday, October 31, 1969, 
as recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous 
vote. 
First Banc Group of Ohio. The Board authorized issuance of 
orders and a statement reflecting its actions, on October 3, 1969, 
approving the applications of First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, 
Ohio, to acquire shares of the successors by merger to Coshocton National 
Bank, Coshocton, Ohio, and First National Bank of Cambridge, Cambridge, 
Ohio. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
Survey of trust department assets. In a memorandum dated 
October 22, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
that the System participate with the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in a survey of trust department 
assets for 1969 similar to the one conducted for 1968. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board deferred action 
pending exploration of questions that were raised. 
Kidnap ransom. In a memorandum dated October 24, 1969, the 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations described conferences its 
staff had been having with the Federal Bureau of Investigation regarding 
a search undertaken by the Federal Reserve Banks in April 1967 for the 

11/3/69 
-3-
$100 notes used as ransom money in a kidnapping case. The Bureau regarded 
the search as important to its investigation. The Division recommended 
that the Board authorize a continued search for the notes, with the 
understanding that the staff would follow up on the question at about 
six-month intervals. Draft letters to the Bureau and to the Federal 
Reserve Bank were attached. 
At today's meeting the Board unanimously approved the recommenda-
tion. Copies of the letters sent pursuant to this action are attached 
as Items 2 and 3. 
Call report data. In a memorandum to Governor Sherrill dated 
September 16, 1969, Messrs. Eckert and Veenstra described negotiations 
looking toward joint publication by the Board, the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation, and the Comptroller of the Currency of certain 
call report statistics. The publication would replace several present 
semiannual publications of the Board and the Corporation. The proposed 
format was attached to the memorandum. In a memorandum dated October 24 
Mr. Partee stated the recommendation of the Division of Research and 
Statistics that the Board accept the proposal and indicated that Governor 
Sherrill concurred in that recommendation. 
After discussion at today's meeting the Board unanimously approved 
the joint publication in the form set forth by Messrs. Eckert and Veenstra. 
Boston counsel fees. The Board unanimously approved the recom-
mendation of the Legal Division in a memorandum dated October 24, 1969, 

* >v tt~\ 
O/w* 
\) 
11/3/69 
-4-
that the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston be authorized to pay amounts 
not to exceed a total of $125,000 for special counsel fees in connection 
with the Bank's acquisition of a building site. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Reserve Bank pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
One-bank holding company bills. Chairman Patman of the House 
Committee on Banking and Currency had requested the views of the Board 
regarding points of difference between two pending bills relating to 
one-bank holding companies. Mr. Cardon had submitted a draft response 
with a memorandum of October 30, 1969, in which he commented on the 
positions proposed to be taken. 
Discussion at today's meeting developed agreement on several 
changes in the draft letter, after which it was unanimously approved in 
the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Health insurance. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division 
of Personnel Administration in a memorandum dated October 29, 1969, the 
Board unanimously approved proposed changes in the health insurance plans 
of the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Minneapolis, and San Francisco. 
Copies of the letters sent to the three Reserve Banks are attached as 
Items 6-8. 
Officer salaries. Pursuant to a recommendation by the Division 
of Personnel Administration in a memorandum dated October 29, 1969, the 
Board unanimously approved salaries for the following officers of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York at rates set by the Bank's Board of 

O.v 
i 
11/3/69 
-5-
Directors: Mr. James H. Booth as Manager, Bank Examinations Department; 
Mr. Edward F. Kipfstuhl as Manager, Bank Examinations Department; and 
Mr. Irwin D. Sandberg as Securities Trading Officer, Securities Depart-
ment. A copy of the letter informing the Reserve Bank of the Board's 
action is attached as Item No. 9. 
A number of staff members withdrew from the meeting at this 
point or earlier. 
Commercial paper. On October 29, 1969, the Board published a 
determination that Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, and Regulation D, 
Reserves of Member Banks, applied to funds obtained by member banks 
through issuance of commercial paper by their subsidiaries. In a memo-
randum dated November 3, the Office of the Secretary commented on questions 
that had arisen with respect to waiver of penalties for reserve deficiencies 
in order to allow banks to accommodate to the ruling without hardship. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of telegram to the Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding the steps that might be appropriate and equitable to 
take in implementing the Board's determination. 
After a discussion during which reservations were expressed 
regarding the suggested procedures, the Board indicated a preference for 
not sending the proposed telegram at this time. It was agreed that the 
matter would be considered further tomorrow. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland, 
Solomon (Adviser), Partee, Molony, Hexter, and Hersey. Mr. Solomon 

11/3/69 
, 
-6-
then summarized discussions in connection with the latest meeting of 
Working Party 3 over the past weekend. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3273 
Item No. 1 
11/3/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
1 
shares of the successor by merger to 
Coshocton National Bank, 
Coshocton, Ohio. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Coir.pany Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Banc Group 
of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of the 
successor by merger to Coshocton National Bank, Coshocton, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application. 

Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 20, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13441), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
recieved have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of November 1969, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Daane, 
Britrmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
1 
Columbus, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of voting 
shares of the successor by merger to 
First National Bank of Cambridge, 
' 
Cambridge, Ohio, 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Banc Group 
of Ohio, Incc, Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, 
for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 100 per cent 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares of the 
successor by merger to First National Bank of Cambridge, Cambridge, 
Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of reccipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended approval of the application* 

U/lv i' O 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 20, 1969 (34 Federal Register 13441), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of November 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Maisel, Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

/ / 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF THE 
SUCCESSORS BY MERGER TO FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CAMBRIDGE, CAMBRIDGE, OHIO, 
AND COSHOCTON NATIONAL BANK, COSHOCTON, OHIO 
STATEMENT 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of 
100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) of the voting shares 
of (1) a new national bank into which it proposes to merge First National 
Bank of Cambridge, Cambridge, Ohio ("Cambridge Bank"), and (2) a new 
national bank into which it proposes to merge Coshocton National Bank, 
Coshocton, Ohio ("Coshocton Bank"). The new national banks have no 
significance except as a means of acquiring all of the shares of the 
banks to be merged into them; the proposals are therefore treated herein 
as proposals to acquire shares of Cambridge Bank and Coshocton Bank. 
Although each of the applications has been separately considered 
and is the subject of a separate Board Order, because of facts and circum-
stances common to both applications, this Statement contains the Board's 
findings and conclusions with respect to both. 

o.o / 8 
-2-
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cations was given to the Comptroller of the Currency and his views 
and recommendations were requested. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of both applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into con-
sideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transactions. - Applicant 
controls two banks and 24 offices in the State of Ohio, with aggregate 
1/ 
deposits of $432 million. 
It controls just over 2 per cent of the 
1/ Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1968, 
refer to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 
(date. 

KJ>/C> 
-3-
deposits held by all banks in the State,.and is the twelfth largest 
banking organization and the fifth largest of six bank holding com-
panies in Ohio, Acquisition of Cambridge Bank, which has $21 million 
in deposits, and Coshocton Bank, which has $39 million in deposits, 
would have only a negligible effect on State-wide concentration. 
Applicant would control only 2.5 per cent of deposits, would become 
the State's eleventh largest banking organization, and would retain 
its relative position among the State's bank holding companies. 
Cambridge Bank is headquartered in Cambridge, has two offices, 
and ig one of three banks in Guernsey County, Ohio. Its most direct 
competitor, also located in Cambridge, is of comparable deposit size 
($21 million), and has four offices. The third county bank has de-
posits of $6.9 million and is located 19 miles east of Cambridge. 
Cambridge Bank serves an area which encompasses most of Guernsey County 
(population 38,600). Aggressive competition exists between the two 
banks in Cambridge and somewhat less competition exists between 
Cambridge Bank and the third county bank. It does not appear that 
acquisition of Cambridge Bank by Applicant would have any undue ad-
Verse effect on either of the competing banks. 
Coshocton Bank, headquartered in the City of Coshocton, has 
three banking offices and is the larger of two banks in Coshocton County 
(popul 
ation 33,300), which constitutes its service area. Its only com-
petitor in the county, a subsidiary of the largest bank holding company 
in Ohio, ha3 deposits of $34 million, and operates two banking offices. 
It does not appear that consummation of the proposal relating to Coshocton 
&ank would have any undue competitive effect on any competing bank. 

3280 
-4-
The closest office of any of Applicant's subsidiaries is 
located 52 miles from Coshocton and 81 miles from Cambridge. Cambridge 
and Coshocton are located in adjoining counties, but are separated by 
32 miles of sparsely settled farmland. Neither of the subject banks 
nor any of Applicant's subsidiaries derives significant business from 
any area served by one of the others, and, in view of the distances 
involved and Ohio restrictions against branching across county lines, 
it does not appear that future competition is likely to develop among 
them. Consummation of the proposed acquisitions, therefore, would not 
eliminate existing competition or foreclose significant potential 
competition. 
The Board concludes that consummation of either or both of 
the proposed transactions would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize the busi-
ness of banking in any relevant area, and would not substantially 
lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in 
any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
generally satisfactory and their managements are considered competent. 
Prospects of the group appear favorable. 
The financial conditions and present managements of both 
Coshocton Bank and Cambridge Bank are judged to be satisfactory. In 
the case of Coshocton Bank, however, its principal executive officer 
has almost reached the usual retirement age, and its affiliation with 

3281 
-2-
Applicant would provide it with an assured source of future management 
strength. Prospects of both banks are considered favorable. 
The Board concludes that considerations under the banking 
factors are consistent with the approval of Applicant's proposed acqui-
sition of Cambridge Bank, and lend some weight toward the approval of 
the application relating to Coshocton Bank. 
Convenience and needsjofthe communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposal would have no effect on customers served by 
Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
Some benefits would accrue to Guernsey and Coshocton Counties 
as a result of the proposed acquisition. There are no banks offering 
trust services in either county. Applicant proposes to make such services 
available through visits to both banks of a trust officer from Applicant's 
largest subsidiary bank. Loan participations by both banks with other 
subsidiaries of Applicant would also be facilitated by consummation of 
the two proposals. 
Although there is no evidence that significant banking needs of 
either county are not being served at this time, it appears that Applicant's 
proposals would result in improving and broadening the services offered by 
both of the subject banks. These considerations provide some weight in 
favor of approval of both applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the records and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisitions would be in the public interest and that the applications 
should be approved. 
November 3, 1969. 

3:ays 
•iS'Mimb; 
'•f^LRtsf:-
BOARD n F G O V E R N D RS 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S F D N O E K C ! 
T D 
T H E 
H O A f i f D 
November 4, 1969 
The Honorable John Edgar Hoover, Director, 
Federal Bureau of Investigation, 
United States Department of Justice, 
Washington, D. C0 
20535. 
Dear Mr. Hoover: 
This refers to your letter of October 14, 1968, with 
regard to the desirability of continuing a search at the 
Federal Reserve Banks for $100 Federal Reserve notes used as 
ransom money in connection with the kidnaping of Kenneth Jon 
Young in April 1967. 
The Board has authorized further searching with the 
understanding that the need will be reviewed with the Bureau 
in approximately six months so that searching may be discon-
tinued as soon as possible. 
Very tiuly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

32f~>3 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
11/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T C 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 3, 196 9 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed is a letter from the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation regarding the desirability of continuing 
the search being made at each Federal Reserve office for $100 bills 
used as ransom money. The Board believes thar. the search should be 
continued with the understanding that the request v;ill be reviewed 
with the Bureau in approximately six months so that the searching 
may be discontinued as soon as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3281 
UNITED STATUS DEPARTMENT OF JISTICK 
FKDKHAL BURKAU OF I N V EST I C AT I ()»\ 
WASHINGTON. D C . 
20535 
October 14, 1969 
Mr. Robert C. Holland 
Secretary of the Board 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Federal Reserve Building 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Dear Mr. Holland: 
Reference is made to the conversation on October 13, 1969, 
between Mr. Paul D. Ring of your office and Special Agent Charles R. 
McKinnon of this Bureau concerning the continuation of checks by the 
Federal Reserve System of $100 bills in connection with the kidnaping 
of Kenneth Jon Young. 
The then ten-year-old Kenneth J,on Young was abducted on 
April 3, 1967, from his Beverly Hills, California, home. A demand of 
$250,000 in $100 bills was made for the safe return of the child. 
Mr. Herbert J. Young, the father of the ten-year-old victim, on 
April 5, 1967, paid the demanded sum of money and his son was 
subsequently released. Mr. Young at that time was president of the 
Gibraltar Savings and Loan Association and a member of the board of 
the Beverly Hills National Bank, both in Beverly Hills, California. 
Investigation continues by the FBI in connection with the 
kidnaping of Kenneth Jon Young. In this regardit is desirable that if 
Possible the checks being made of $100 bills in the Federal Reserve 
System be continued in efforts to detect if any of the ransom money is 
passed. Should it be detected that some of the bills have been passed 
it could be of material assistance in this investigation. 
Your continued assistance in this regard will indeed be 
appreciated. 
Sincerely yours, 
0fFICE OK THK DIRECTOR 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
.•^oVcoV;-. 
O F T H E 
11/3/69 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20555 
A D D R E f c S 
O F F I C I A L 
C n R R E 3 P tl (M O E N C I 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 3, 1969 
Mr. Frank E. Metrris, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris; 
This is in reply to your letters ox August 29, 1969 and 
October 3, 1969, requesting approval of the payment of compensation 
of not in excess of $125,000 to the firm of .Sly, Bartlett, Brown & 
Proctor for services as special counsel in connection with the acqui-
sition by the Bank of a site for its proposed new building. On 
October 1.3, 3.96 7, the Board authorized payment of not in excess of 
$25,000 to special counsel in connection with your building program. 
Under that authorization, $7,565 was paid to a firm other than the 
firm named in connection with the acquisition of property c?.dioining 
the Bank's present building. 
On the basis of the information submitted by ycu, the Board, 
approves aggregate payments to Ely, Bartlett, Brown & Proctor not ex-
ceeding $125,000 (including payments heretofore made to said firm 
under the October 13, 1.967 authorization), to be expended from time 
to time in the manner described in your letters. 
Very truly yours, 
(Singed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 5 
BOARD OF ;DVERNOR5 
O F TH E 
11/3/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
E Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 2CSSI 
OFFICE: O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
November 3, 1969 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr, Chairman: 
This 
in response to your letter of October 29 in 
which you asked for an expression of che Board's views on seven 
questions relatr.ng to legislation to amend the Bank Holding 
Company Act of ".956 so as to cover one-bank holding companies. 
At the outset the Board would like to express its 
appreciation of the efforts of your Committee in developing 
legislation to bring one-bank holding companies within the 
scope of the Act « H. R. 6778 as reported to the House contains 
the essential ir.gredients of an effective measure, in the 
Board's judgment. While we believe the Act should be 
strengthened in other respects, we would not press these other 
recommendations if to do so would jeopardize enactment of the 
legislation. 
Your questions and the Board's answers follow: 
Question 1. H. R. 14403, like the Administration 
bill, H. R. 9 385, makes actual control over the manage-
ment or policies of a company a sufficient test for 
determining, that it is a subsidiary of the person 
exercising such control. H, R.. 14403 includes some 
legal and c drninis trative refinements over the 
Administration bill in this regard, but the principle 
is the same. Does the Board favor the enactment of 
legislation incorporating this principle, assuming 
the inclusion of administrative provisions along the 
lines of those in section 4 of H. R. 14403? 

The Honorable Uright Patman 
-2-
Answcr: As I testified at your hearing the Board 
favors broaden:ng the tests of control to cover situations where 
control is exercised in fact through ownership of less than 25 
per cent of the voting stock, and we would favor provisions 
establishing a rebuttable presumption that control exists where 
a company (1) owns 10 per cent of the voting shares of two or 
more banks or (2) owns 5 per cent of the voting shares of three 
or more banks. H. R. 14403 establishes a presumption that 
control does not exist where a company owns less than 5 per 
cent. Without insisting on any particular percentage, the 
Board believes that a presumption should operate to est.a blish 
the existence of control, rather than the reverse. 
Question 2. H. R. 14403 contains an exemption 
for small holding companies along the lines suggested 
by Vice Chairman Robertson. With the understanding 
that the Board has expressed a preference for a 
"grandfather clause'1 based on June 30, 1968, as a 
cutoff dale, would the Board have serious objections 
if a size limitation such as that contained in 
section 2 of II. R. 14403 were substituted for a 
"grandfather clause" based on a cutoff date? 
Answer: As you indicate, a majority of the Board 
prefers a grandfather clause, in view of the element of arbi-
trariness in the $30 million and $10 million limits specified 
in section 2 of H. R. 14403. But as I testified at your 
hearings, either the grandfather clause or the small-company 
exemption would be satisfactory; we would have no serious 
objections to section 2. 
Question 3. The Administration bill, 11. R. 
9385, would have repealed the exemption of partner-
ships. H R, 14403 repeals the. exemption only as 
to limited partnerships, on the theory that such 
partnerships can be constructed in essentially 
corporate form, and that with the repeal of other 
exemptions , the limited partnership may become an 
attractive, vehicle for avoiding coverage by the 
Act. Does the Board favor the repeal of the 
exemption of limited partnerships? 
Answer: Yes. 

3 2 8 3 
The Honorable Uright Patman 
-3-
Question 4. From a number of sources, there 
have been informal expressions of concern that 
hardships may be created on foreign investors in 
the United States and on Americans engaged in 
foreign commerce if the Board has no flexibility 
to grant exemptions in this area. Section 5 of 
H. R. 14403 is an effort to grant such flexibility. 
Would the Board favor the enactment of provisions 
along the lines of those contained in section 5? 
Answer: Yes. 
Question 5. Leaving aside the question of 
prohibited activities, it is my understanding that 
the provisions of H, R. 14403 were intended to have 
a substantive legal effect substantially similar to 
that of the Committee amendment to H. R. 6778. It 
is my understanding that the examples of "benefits 
to the public" and of "possible adverse effects'1 
set fortli the kinds of factors that the Board would 
consider even in the absence of statutory specifi-
cation, but that the mention of "decreased or 
unfair competition" would clarify the rights of 
competitors to be made parties to proceedings on 
applications for Board approval of nonbank 
acquisitions. H. R. 14403 also carries potentially 
greater flexibility for both the Board and the 
industry, in that the Board can act by regulation 
as well as by order. Is the Board of the view 
that this represents a fair comparison of section 
1(c)(1) of the Committee amendment (excluding the 
prohibitions) with section 6 of H. R. 14403? 
Would the Board object to the enactment of 
legislation along the lines of Section 6 of 
H / R . 14 403? 
Answer: We. prefer the provisions of the bill reported 
by the Committee with regard to nonbank subsidiaries of bank 
holding companies. Both bills are unnecessarily restrictive, 
in our judgment, in prohibiting holding company subsidiaries 
from engaging in certain insurance and mutual fund activities 
in which banks, themselves, may engage. But H. R. 14403 would 
go somewhat further in that direction. Where a bank is authorized 
to offer tra\el services, for example, diractly or through a 
wholly-owned subsidiary, we see little justification for prohibiting 
performance of the function by a subsidiary of the holding company. 

The Honorable Uright Patman 
-4-
3/><3 
We believe that sections 4(c)(8) and 4(e), as proposed 
in H. R. 14403, are unnecessarily restrictive in limiting 
permissible activities of holding companies and their subsidiaries 
to those "of a financial or fiduciary nature." We are uncertain 
as to the intent: of this limitation. At first blush it would 
seem to rule out data processing activities, but the proposed 
new section 4(f)(5) would seem to indicate that data processing 
activities would be considered as "financial or fiduciary" 
activities under specified circumstances. The circumstances 
specified seem to be covered by the requirement, taken from 
language proposed by the Board, that activities authorized under 
section 4(c)(8) be "functionally related to banking." If an 
activity is functionally related to banking, and if it can 
reasonably be expected to produce benefits t:o the public that 
outweigh possible adverse effects, we believe it. should be 
authorized without requiring an additional determination that 
it is of a "financial or fiduciary nature." 
H. R, 14403 would specify particular examples of 
benefits and disadvantages to be considered by the Board in 
determining whether an activity should be authorized, whereas 
the reported bill would not. These factors are taken from a 
draff, submitted to your Committee by the Board, and the Board 
would take them into account whether II. R. 6778 is enacted as 
reported by the Committee or is amended to include these factors 
specifically. 
Finally, H. R. 14403 would seem to apply the formal 
provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act to actions on 
applications of individual companies to engage in activities 
that the Board had previously determined to be permissible. 
We believe that this could cause needless delay and expense. 
Question 6. H. R. 14403 prohibits the acqui-
sition of insurance companies by bank holding 
companies, whereas the Committee amendment appears 
to confer administrative authority on the Board to 
approve the acquisition of insurance companies. 
Does the Board agree with this interpretation of 
the Committee amendment? Does the Board regard it 
as desirable that the Board have authority to 
approve acquisitions of insurance companies by 
bank holding companies? 

J/SSO 
The Honorable Uright Patman 
-5-
Answer: The Committee amendment confers on the Board 
administrative authority to approve acquisition of insurance 
companies to the extent that the Board determines that a 
particular insurance company operation is "functionally related 
to banking in such a way that its performance by an affiliate 
of a bank holding company can reasonably be expected to produce 
benefits to the public that outweigh possible adverse effects." 
As reflected in the draft language submitted to your Committee 
on this point, the Board believes that a bank holding company 
should be authorized to have a subsidiary insurance company 
that provides insurance "principally in connection with extensions 
of credit by one or more subsidiaries of rhe holding company," 
subject, of course, to safeguards to be embodied in regulations. 
Question 7. H. R. 9385 contained provisions 
to make It clear that section 11(b) through 11(f) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act apply only to bank 
acquisitions under section 3 of the Act and not to 
nonbank acquisitions under section 4. After H. R. 
6778 was reported by the. Banking and Currency 
Committee, the Ranking Minority Member of the 
Committee, and I received a letter from the Depart-
ment of Justice requesting that any legislation 
finally approved by the House contain some 
provisions along these lines. Does the Board 
consider it desirable that this be done? 
Answer: We understand that this amendment would simply 
make it clear that the 30-day limit on antitrust suits provided 
in section 11(b) would not apply to acquisitions of nonbank 
subsidiaries; we interpret section 11(b) now as applying only 
to acquisitions of banks (section 3 cases) but since the question 
has been raised perhaps a clarification would be in order. 

32<>/ 
BOARD D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
11/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 5, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in Blue 
Cross-Blue Shield coverage in your District, effective September I, 
as requested in Mr. Sanders' letter of August 22. 
P.ease note that approval has been given although the 
health insurance guidelines proposed by the Conference of Presi-
dents have not as yet been fully approved, pending consideration 
by the Conference of revisions recommended by the Board. 
In view of the immediate need to revise the health 
insurance coverage in your District, it was considered sufficient 
that your proposed coverage follow that part: of the guideline 
recommendations of the Conference which has been approved. Also, 
that reimbursement of surgical/medical expenses is based upon an 
administered schedule, the only revision recommended by the Board 
that affects the basic health insurance program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

0,07,0 
f*AL Rtsf: < 
BOARD D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
11/3/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S ^ O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B Q A R O 
November 5, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Gab sha: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in Blue 
Cross-Blue Snield coverage in your District, as requested in 
Mr. Strothman's letter of July 28. 
Please note that approval has been given although the 
health insure nee guidelines proposed by the Conference of Presi-
dents have not as yet been fully approved, pending consideration 
by the Conference of revisions recommended by the Board. 
In view of the immediate need to revise the health 
insurance coverage in your District, it war. considered sufficient 
that your proposed coverage follow that part of the guideline^ 
recommendations of the Conference which hau been approved. Also, 
that reimbursement of surgical/medical expanses is based upon an 
administered schedule, the only revision recommended by the Board 
that affects the basic health insurance program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 8 
BOARD Dc" G O V E R N O R S 
11/3/69 
. V o f C O K ' . 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O f F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C C 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 5, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors has approved changes in Blue 
Cross-Blue Shield coverage in your District, as requested in 
your letters of August 8 and October 14. 
Please note that approval has been given although the 
health insurance guidelines proposed by the Conference of Presi-
dents have non as yet been fully approved, pending consideration 
oy the Conference of revisions recommended by the Board. 
In view of the immediate need to revise the health 
insurance coverage in your District, it was considered sufficieni 
that your proposed coverage follow that part of the guideline 
recommendations of the Conference which has been approved. 
Also, that reimbursement of sugical/'medica 1 expenses is based 
upon an administered schedule, the only revision recommended 
by the Board that affects the basic health insurance program. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
OF 
GDVERNDR5« 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
D F 
T H E 
Item No. 9 
11/3/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R R E S P G N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 3, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York listed below for the period November 1 through 
December 31, 1969, as requested in your letter of 
October 22, 1969: 
All salaries listed above are as fixed by your 
Board of Directors. 
Name 
Title 
Annual 
Salary 
James A. Booth 
Edward F. Kipfstuhl 
Irwin D. Sandberg 
Manager 
Manager 
Securi ties 
$23,000 
25,000 
23,000 
Trading Officer 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
