MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Meeting with Federal Advisory Council 
November 18, 1969 

3 4 t i 9 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room 
of the Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D. C. , at 10:30 a.m. 
on Tuesday, November 18, 1969. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Moore, Brown, Mayer, 
Wilkinson, Craft, Graham, Fox, Nason, 
Gray, and Larkin, members of the Federal 
Advisory Council from the First, Second, 
Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Seventh, 
Eighth, Ninth, Eleventh, and Twelfth 
Federal Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
Mr. Conn, member of the Council from the Tenth District, was 
unable to be present and in his absence the District was represented 
by Grady Harris, President, Fidelity National Bank and Trust Company 
of Oklahoma City, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 
President Mayer stated that the Council had amended its by-laws 
to reflect a changed schedule of meeting dates under which the Council's 
regular joint meetings with the Board would be held on the first Friday 

11/18/69 
- 2 -
in February, May, September, and November of each year beginning with 
1970. —^ According to that schedule, the Council's next meeting with 
the Board would be held on February 6, 1970. 
Chairman Martin said that the Board appreciated the Council's 
action. 
It should be helpful in several respects, including the provision 
of more flexibility in setting up the schedule of meetings of the Federal 
Open Market Committee. 
Chairman Martin noted also that Messrs. Wilkinson, Moore, Fox, 
and Larkin would conclude their service with the Council at the end of 
this year. He expressed appreciation, on behalf of the Board, for the 
contributions they had made and also expressed the hope that they would 
continue their interest in the Federal Reserve. 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general 
economic outlook to mid-1970? What is its 
impression of the present state of business 
and consumer psychology? 
The Council believes the slowdown in the economy that has 
become increasingly evident since the last meeting with the Board 
in September will continue well into 1970. Accordingly, the Council 
anticipates little or no real growth in the output of goods and 
services through most of the first half of 1970. Gains in employ-
ment are likely to be minimal which, with continued growth in the 
labor force, will increase unemployment. Corporate profits before 
taxes will decline further, reflecting rising fixed costs and high 
wage rates, while output shows little or no growth and resistance 
to prices is rising. 
1/ As amended, the first paragraph of article VI of the by-laws read: 
"Regular meetings of the Federal Advisory Council shall be held in 
the City of Washington on the first Friday of the months of February, 
May, September, and November of each year, unless otherwise directed 
by the Executive Committee." 

3 r?i 
11/18/69 
-3-
Consumers are becoming increasingly concerned with the 
erosion in their purchasing power as a result of the rise in taxes 
and higher prices. As a consequence, their outlook is much less 
optimistic than it had been. There is less evidence that business-
men generally are yet fully persuaded that the economy will slow 
significantly. 
President Mayer commented that one sign of consumer cost-conscious-
•a. 
• • 
, 
, • 
• 
. . . 
ness was the good clean-up of 1969 model automobiles, apparently attributable 
to the margins between their cost and that of 1970 models, although also 
partly to the fact that no outstanding design changes had been made. 
Chairman Martin inquired about the industry projection for 1970, 
and Mr. Graham responded that discussions during his last trip to Detroit 
were in terms of a 9 million car year. President Mayer observed that a 
large-scale strike would probably occur among automobile workers in 1970, 
and Mr. Moore pointed out that the 9 million projection included imports; 
the outlook for domestic production was more probably 8 million to 8.5 
million. President Mayer noted that Japanese imports almost certainly 
would increase; it remained to be seen whether they would be marketed at 
the expense of other imports or U.S. production. 
Governor Robertson inquired what would be necessary to change 
inflationary psychology, and whether there was any indication that a 
change was taking place. 
President Mayer suggested that lower corporate earnings should 
bring about such a change, and Mr. Wilkinson noted that despite the last 
sentence of the Council's statement there were some indications of a 
'• • i I net ti n 'j C i il tl I 
•. ' 1; ;', 
; .' . • 
•' 
'. :: . .' " •"' > i •'. ' 
turn of mind among businessmen. President Mayer commented that businessmen 

•~2 ><-<*> 
O .1-
11/18/69 
-4-
in general were "looking across the valley," expecting that any economic 
downturn would be of relatively short duration and only modest propor-
tions. However, if-they were confronted with poor earnings, they could 
be expected to turn more to doing whatever was necessary to improve 
that situation because of the necessity to keep peace with stockholders. 
Mr. Moore added that if large corporations committed themselves 
to substantial wage increases in a multi-year contract there was the 
possibility that by the second or third year it might not be possible 
to pass the increased costs on to the consumer. 
In response to a question, members of the Council expressed the 
view that consumer credit, including the credit card component, was 
being maintained at a relatively stable level. Among big ticket items, 
unit sales were actually showing a downward trend. 
Mr. Gray said it should be remembered that spending for services 
was more important in the scheme of consumer expenditures than it had 
been in the past. While there might be less credit extended for durables 
and perhaps even for soft goods, there was a continuing increase in 
spending for services. 
Governor Mitchell inquired what kind of budgeting was being done 
by banks for consumer lending, and Mr. Wilkinson said that his bank had 
budgeted for 1970 at the level of 1969. Mr. Nason reported budgeting 
little more than half of the normal increase. Mr. Wheeler said that 
the increase in his bank's consumer credit budget represented reallocation 

11/18/69 
-5-
3473 
from another area, and Mr. Gray stated that an expected 5 per cent 
increase at his bank was attributable to sales of mobile homes, which 
were very active. 
B. What" are the Council's impressions regarding 
business plans for capital expenditures and 
inventory investment? To what extent is such 
planning being influenced by (1) the availability 
and cost of money, (2) prospects for prices and 
costs, and (3) the outlook for future product 
demand? 
The members of the Council see some indications that business-
men are altering their plans for capital expenditure and inventory 
investment. There also is evidence of caution in adding to inven-
tories as sales growth has slowed. There is a general feeling in 
the Council, as yet unsupported by statistics, that actual outlays 
for new plant and equipment in 1970 will lag behind the sizable 
increases reported in recent surveys. 
Planning is being influenced by all three factors, but 
primarily by the availability of money and to a lesser extent by 
the cost of money, prospects for prices and costs, and the outlook 
for future product demand. 
Governor Robertson noted that business loans had been moving 
up fairly substantially month by month and asked if inventory loans were 
a principal contributory factor. 
Mr. Moore responded that his bank's business loans were moving 
on a flat or downward trend, and Mr. Graham indicated that business loans 
at his bank also would be charted on about a flat line, being up only 
minimally from June. President Mayer spoke in similar vein. 
Mr. Gray said he thought the increases would be found mainly in 
banks of moderate and smaller size. At a meeting he had attended last 
week, the larger Dallas banks reported a flattening in commercial loans. 
However, some of the demand was spilling over into smaller banks. National 

3474 
11/18/69 
-6-
firms were presently using their lines at his bank more than they formerly 
had. 
Mr. Larkin commented that his bank typically had a strong seasonal 
pattern in the last four months of the year, and this year was under 
pressure to increase loans more than seasonally. The additional demand 
was principally for funds to carry inventories and to replenish working 
capital. The bank was meeting the demand to the extent of about half of 
its normal seasonal increase. 
President Mayer said he would consider it unusual for corporations 
to continue to increase capital expenditures when earnings were as disap-
pointing as he thought they were currently. Mr. Graham also referred to 
the impact on capital expenditure plans of the profits squeeze that was 
now becoming apparent. Since there was in addition some question about 
final demand, he believed many firms were becoming concerned about how 
far across the valley they had to look. 
Mr. Moore observed that on a long-range basis plans were not being 
changed fundamentally; projects were being laid out for a long period ahead. 
This was necessary if the steel industry, for example, was going to compete 
with foreign sources because it must rebuild many of its facilities. Only 
the timing of plans was being changed. However, he agreed that the near-
term effect should be a tendency toward lower capital expenditures. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the banking system had been carrying 
State and local governments that could not get into the capital market. 

* » 
o 
y / o 
11/18/69 
-7-
He inquired whether this was true also with respect to utilities and 
business corporations. 
Mr. Moore replied that the press had reported a $2 billion wait-
ing list in the bond market this week. Mr. Craft said that utilities 
had been resorting to commercial paper to a considerable extent in his 
District. He added that utilities scheduled their bond issues far in 
advance and typically marketed them when the time came regardless of 
adverse market conditions. Mr. Wilkinson agreed that a utility, particu-
larly in a growing area, could not wait for funds until the market was 
favorable. Mr. Moore commented that the deferral of some bond issues 
appeared to be attributable to a continuing shortage of certain types 
of construction labor. 
Generally negative responses were made by members of the Council 
to an inquiry as to whether they had seen instances where companies were 
getting into a strained financial position because of deferral of capital 
issues. However, Mr. Craft observed that it was not always possible to 
tell exactly what was going on internally. Mr. Moore said he had known 
of two or three situations where companies had borrowed short in order 
to buy other companies and had not been able to fund the transactions. 
He and Mr. Graham noted that a large share of the financing for such 
transactions was originating in Europe. Mr. Moore also said he believed 
that a lender would usually live with a loan he had made rather than 
Produce a bankruptcy. President Mayer remarked that it should be borne 

3476 
11/18/69 
-8-
in mind that in some cases a customer was so important that a bank had 
to be realistic with respect to financing. 
C. To what extent do State and local governments 
appear to be meeting their financing needs for 
capital improvements through short-term borrowings, 
including bank loans? How does the Council appraise 
the outlook for capital spending and financing by 
State and local governments? 
State and local governments in many areas are finding it 
increasingly necessary to employ short-term borrowings, including 
bank loans, to meet some of their financial needs. This is proving 
inadequate. As a consequence, many capital improvements by State 
and local governments are being deferred. 
In addition, there is 
increasing unwillingness by voters to approve new bond issues. As 
a result, a substantial backlog of State and local government 
capital improvement projects is building up. 
Chairman Martin said he had received many complaints about the 
inability of States and municipalities to sell bonds, with usury laws 
of course a contributing factor in some cases. 
$ 
Mr. Graham commented that area data compiled by his bank showed 
that during the first nine months of 1969 a very substantial volume of 
issues had been deferred either because no bids were received or because 
officials were unwilling to accept the bids offered. The State and local 
entities concerned had been forced to borrow from banks or temporarily 
from other State funds, where they had that privilege, or they had issued 
tax anticipation short-term obligations. 
Mr. Craft commented on a severe financing problem that was facing 
the city of Atlanta, which needed to borrow a sum greater than the com-
bined lending limits of the local banks; he did not know what solution 
could be found. 

3477 
11/18/69 
-9-
Mr. Wheeler remarked that in the First District current condi-
tions had virtually eliminated banks and insurance companies from the 
municipal bond market, and some local governments were having problems. 
Banks had been carrying some of the municipalities on a short-term basis, 
but for the most part the money for projects had come from outside the 
area. There was a huge backlog of potential refunding and new bond 
issues when and if conditions improved. 
President Mayer observed that Pennsylvania was having a frustrat-
ing experience in which, although the legislature had approved appropria-
tions substantially above the preceding year, it was being found difficult 
to agree on what kind of taxes should be levied to support such a program. 
Mr. Moore remarked that in his bank's long-range planning tax-
exempts had no place in the portfolio other than on a local and a turnover 
basis. While the rate of return on such obligations had been good during 
the postwar years, loan demands and liquidity considerations were now 
prompting the bank to abandon any intention of resuming the purchase of 
municipals in the future except on a specialized basis. The question, 
then, was who was going to buy municipals, especially if Congress cut 
off the tax advantages. 
After comments by other members of the Council regarding the 
current negative attitude of banks toward investing in municipal bonds, 
Mr. Wilkinson drew attention to the problem this presented as the public 
sector increased in proportion to the total economy. 

3478 
11/18/69 
-10-
Governor Mitchell inquired whether States and municipalities 
were not due special consideration for the sake of their deposit balances, 
but several members of the Council commented that the benefit of such 
balances was offset by pledging requirements, which presented special 
problems to which no solution seemed to be forthcoming. 
D. How would the Council assess the present situation 
and outlook in the market for mortgage financing? 
Are there significant differences as regards financing 
for homes, apartments, and commercial buildings? 
The members of the Council report that the availability of 
funds for mortgage financing has been sharply curtailed. There is 
little expectation that this situation will be relieved in the months 
ahead. The most critical shortage is in the area of mortgage financ-
ing for homes. Although a flow of funds for apartments and commercial 
buildings has been maintained, largely through the technique of 
giving the lender an equity and/or profit "sweetener," these funds 
are now being curtailed as a substantial share of new investment 
funds of the insurance companies is going into policy loans. 
President Mayer noted that in his area hardly any banks were 
actively making mortgage loans. Also, rental rates in shopping centers 
were getting out of line with the ability of tenants to pay. 
Mr. Nason commented that in his area apartment rentals were 
getting to the point where tenants were unable or unwilling to pay them, 
even though there was a housing shortage. 
Mr. Graham said that in his region up to 40 per cent of the 
insurance company funds that had been going into shopping center and 
apartment projects was now going into policy loans. 
Mr. Gray observed that the price of homes already constructed 
could be expected to increase substantially, and there would no doubt 
be increased pressure for legislation to alleviate the distress of the 
housing industry. 

3 4 7 9 
11/18/69 
-11-
Chairman Martin inquired whether difficulty was being encountered 
in financing the numerous building projects in New York City, to which 
Mr. Moore replied that the financing for many of them had been worked 
out through giving insurance companies equity interests. Mr. Wheeler 
observed that for many projects now under construction the terms of 
financing had been arranged two or three years ago. That, of course, 
did not make it any easier for the supplier to provide the money under 
present conditions. 
2. Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable 
strength of business loan demand in the period 
ahead? How has loan demand during the early fall 
differed from prior expectations? 
The slowing in economic activity on which the Council has 
commented logically suggests that loan demand may be topping out 
and this is confirmed by several members. However, the majority 
of the members report sustained strong demand for loans which they 
anticipate will be maintained in the period ahead. Loan demand 
during the early fall did not differ significantly from prior 
expectations. 
B. What are the devices that banks have used in attempt-
ing to ration credit to prospective customers, and 
what success has been achieved? Have rationing efforts 
been extended into the consumer instalment credit 
field? 
Banks have employed a number of techniques, in addition 
to rate, in an attempt to ration credit to prospective customers. 
These have included the establishment of credit allocating commit-
tees which have reviewed loan requests even for relatively modest 
amounts. Such devices also have included a limitation of loans 
to some multiple of the customer's deposit balance, preference 
to established customers in contrast to new ones, preference given 
to short-term credit instead of term loans, a refusal to take on 
new lines, a screening of loans to detect those for non-essential 
purposes, a reduction of the principal amount upon renewal of loans, 
and a preference to local borrowers as compared to out-of-town 
borrowers. 

3490 
11/18/69 
-12-
These rationing devices have been applied almost entirely 
to business borrowers. There has been little or no effort to ration 
credit to small businesses involving social considerations and con-
sumer instalment credit, except for some curtailment of dealer floor 
plan financing.' There has been some reduction in consumer instal-
ment credit promotion programs. 
President Mayer expressed the view that the final sentence in 
the Council's answer might be an understatement. 
If he correctly inter-
preted the Council's discussion yesterday, few banks were advertising 
for loans, their only advertising being devoted to credit cards. He 
pointed out, as had the Council during other recent meetings, that the 
amount of credit extended through cards was very small in relation to 
the total banking business. 
Mr. Graham added that, even so far as credit cards were concerned, 
advertising had been undertaken principally when a bank moved into a new 
card system; where an established system was in operation, the advertising 
volume had usually been negligible. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether it had been a mistake for banks 
to go into the credit card business, and Mr. Moore responded that there 
were many defects to be corrected. Banks had not learned how to get 
the cards to customers effectively, and without undue risk of theft. 
Paperwork was excessive, and the transaction unit cost was far more than 
it should be. Despite these and other developmental problems, however, 
he believed that credit cards would provide an efficient payment mechanism 
in time. They permitted a customer to know his total commitment and 
facilitated family budgeting. 

3461 
11/18/69 
-13-
Mr. Gray suggested that the rate of growth of the credit card 
business was substantial, but Mr. Graham expressed the view that most 
of the growth reflected new entrants into the field and transfers from 
normal consumer instalment lending. His bank's consumer instalment 
lending had been reduced in an amount corresponding almost exactly to 
the increase in credit card volume. 
Mr. Fox commented that the credit card business, which his bank 
had gotten into only defensively, was not now an important earnings item 
nor did he see that it would be in the future. The 18 per cent rate 
charged to those who took longer to pay was offset by lower yields from 
people who paid promptly, so that the average was about 12 per cent. 
Moreover, the credit card business was not an important source of deposit 
balances,although he recognized that this might be related to the fact 
that his bank was prevented by State law from having branches. His bank 
provided credit card service simply because it was one that people seemed 
to want. 
Mr. Moore said that his bank had obtained several thousand new 
customers, many of whom had not previously established a banking relation-
ship. if this expanded clientele was taken into consideration, his bank 
was probably about breaking even on its credit card business. 
Mr. Graham remarked that his bank, without branches, had had a 
long and bitter struggle with its credit card business, but it was begin-
ning to break even and was looking forward to profits. Asked whether 

11/18/69 
-14-
his bank charged itself at the going rate for credit card money, Mr. Graham 
replied in the affirmative, adding that all sorts of incremental costs 
were being included." However, it would admittedly be a long time before 
the bank got back its seed money. 
Mr. Larkin said that his bank had postponed its entry into the 
credit card business, but expected to start next spring. According to 
some competitors, the only break-even point in the business came from 
dealer deposit balances. 
President Mayer commented that some people apparently could handle 
an instalment loan but could not handle a credit card. Credit cards had 
been issued by his bank to selected customers who had maintained good 
records with respect to mortgage and instalment loans, but some of them 
had performed poorly in handling their credit cards. 
Chairman Martin remarked that a number of suggestions had been 
received that the Board should again be given authority to prescribe 
consumer credit regulations similar to those formerly contained in Regu-
lation W. He inquired whether the Council members had any feeling that 
such a regulation would be helpful. 
Members of the Council indicated that no particular need was 
seen for such a regulation. They believed that banks themselves exer-
cised a reasonable discipline and that consumers seemed to be sufficiently 
aware, generally speaking, of the limits of their ability to incur indebted-
ness . 

11/18/69 
-15-
Governor Robertson observed that consumer credit was admittedly 
not one of the types of credit that banks were rationing. There was a 
considerable amount of criticism, which could create a real political prob-
lem, that banks were fueling inflation by continuing to extend consumer 
credit freely at the same time they were cutting off residential mortgage 
loans. 
Mr. Nason expressed the view that store accounts represented most of 
the increase rather than consumer credit extended by banks, and Mr. Wilkinson 
observed that the totals also reflected rising prices. Mr. Gray commented 
that, while the political problem was a matter of concern, requests for 
consumer credit frequently reflected social needs. A bank could not so 
easily refuse a person money needed for a medical bill or educational expenses 
as it could refuse a mortgage. Mr. Moore agreed that many consumer loan 
requests arose from family or personal crises, and banks could not readily 
cut off such credit. 
Mr. Fox suggested that usury laws were a factor; every time his 
bank made a residential mortgage loan at 8 per cent it lost money, because 
it had to buy money at 9 per cent. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether rationing goals called for no 
increase in bank credit or a moderate increase. 
Mr. Nason replied that his bank had not shown any increase for several 
months and the projection for 1970 called for no increase until the fourth 
quarter. Mr. Graham also predicted a level course, and Mr. Moore said loans 

34 S4 
11/18/69 
-16-
showed a flat to downward trend. He recalled that in earlier Council 
meetings he had predicted that it would take close to a year for credit 
restraint to become'fully effective, and that time had now come. 
C. To what extent are medium-size and smaller banks 
around the country being affected by monetary 
restraint and how have they been adjusting? 
The Council believes that medium-size and smaller banks are 
now being affected moderately by monetary restraint. They have been 
experiencing some disintermediation--a net outflow of savings balances, 
and there is an increasing tendency for customers to use their credit 
lines more fully. However, many banks have not to date meaningfully 
reduced their participation as sellers in the Federal funds market. 
Mr. Nason inquired how the Board defined medium-size banks for 
purposes of the question. Council members, he said, had had in mind banks 
in the $100 million bracket. In fact, with some exceptions, Federal funds 
were being sold principally by banks of $25 million to $50 million. 
Mr. Wheeler noted that First District banks of the $500 million category 
had been net buyers of Federal funds for the past year. 
There ensued a discussion of the extent to which national corpo-
rations were seeking credit from smaller banks. A distinction was made 
between the large manufacturing corporations and those in retail lines, 
including mail order houses. The latter were said to be using freely their 
credit lines with banks, including some banks under $10 million, in any 
town where the organization had even a small unit such as a catalog agency. 
Essentially, any bank with which the organization had a deposit relation-
ship would be used, regardless of size. 

11/18/69 
-17-
D. How does the Council assess the prospects for further 
development of non-deposit sources of funds by banks 
and their affiliates? 
Is there any evidence that the 
large increase in commercial paper issuance over the 
past year has affected the absorptive capacity of 
this market for the paper of either banks or other 
issuers ? 
The Council believes that in view of the regulatory situa-
tion, there are few, if any, prospects for the further development of 
non-deposit sources of funds by banks and their affiliates. The Euro-
dollar and Federal funds markets appear to be the most immediate means 
of adjustment available. 
The Council also believes that the absorptive capacity of the 
market for commercial paper of either banks or other issuers was not 
adversely affected by the large increase in paper issued in the past 
year. Rather, it refl ected a rechanneling of funds from controlled 
markets (CD's) to uncontrolled areas (commercial paper). 
In the pro-
cess, the smaller firms and State and local governments that do not 
have ready access to the commercial paper market have been the ones on 
whom the restraint has fallen most heavily. 
Governor Mitchell inquired about the lower end of the size range 
t 
i '.5 t -
of organizations issuing commercial paper, and President Mayer indicated 
that, while it was difficult to be specific, a company with assets in the 
area of $25 million could be an issuer. Mr. Craft noted that finance 
companies of about that size, with a local or regional market, were selling 
commercial paper. 
E. Is the current heavy use of the commercial paper 
market by corporations likely to abate substan-
tially once Regulation Q ceilings no longer limit 
the ability of banks to acquire CD funds? 
The members of the Council believe that the current heavy use 
of the commercial paper market by corporations will abate somewhat 
once Regulation Q ceilings no longer limit the ability of the commer-
cial banks to acquire CD funds. However, there is wide agreement that 
there has been a major change in corporate practice and thus there 
will be some permanent loss of bank financing. 

3498 
11/18/69 
-18-
Mr. Moore expressed the view that the Council's answer was an 
understatement. 
It had been found since 1966 that once corporations 
resorted to the commercial paper market they continued to look to it for 
funds. Mr. Graham concurred, commenting that once a corporation had set 
up the administrative machinery for commercial paper issuance it was not 
likely to dismantle that machinery. He believed personally that the 
Council's answer should have been in terms of a "substantial" permanent 
loss of bank financing. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether decisions on issuing commer-
cial paper would not depend upon the relative cost of money from various 
sources. 
Responses indicated that in the past corporations had felt that, 
although bank loans might cost somewhat more, they were safer and more 
dependable, but that seemed no longer to be the attitude. The Council 
was of the view that resort to commercial paper would continue and the 
loss to the banking business would be permanent. 
In reply to a question 
as to whether a majority of the Council believed that the proper term 
was "substantial" loss, President Mayer expressed doubt that the majority 
would take that view. 
Governor Sherrill said it seemed to him the Council's statement 
contained an assumption that demand balances would be increasingly squeezed. 
Otherwise, it might be expected that the prime rate would compete with 
the commercial paper rate. 

3497 
11/18/69 
-19-
Mr. Moore replied that deposit accounts of individuals and small 
businesses might increase, but not those of large corporations. 
Corporate 
treasurers were sophisticated and had learned to trade sharply to get 
the maximum accommodation from a bank in return for the minimum of funds 
kept on deposit. His bank had reorganized its structure to divide the 
handling of the accounts of big companies from that of small business 
accounts, which were more and more the mainstay of earnings. 
Mr. Graham spoke in similar terms, noting that large customers 
were being put on a fee basis because their balances did not even support 
the activity in their accounts. 
F. How does the Council view the long-run outlook for 
the use by banks of a prime rate? Does the Council 
agree with recent comments in the banking industry 
that present practices with respect to the prime 
rate are obsolete? 
The Council does not believe that there will be any funda-
mental change in the use of the prime rate in the foreseeable future, 
even though some modifications of practice may gradually evolve. 
The 
present widespread practice by major corporations of multi-bank credits 
covering both term and short-term borrowings is one aspect of the need 
for a minimum base rate. 
Chairman Martin remarked that there had been comments to the effect 
that the Euro-dollar rate was now being charged in many instances rather 
than the prime rate. 
President Mayer said he thought the prime rate was usually charged 
as a base, with varying requirements as to deposit balances. When support-
ing deposit balances were considered, the actual prime rate currently was 
between 11 and 12 per cent. 
If adequate balances were not obtained, the 

-3488 
11/18/69 
-20-
customer was charged a rate higher than the prime rate; to that extent 
the prime rate was a floating rate. 
A Council member remarked that yesterday the members of the Council 
had made some attempt to forecast the future trend of the prime rate, with 
a consensus that some reduction, on average, seemed likely during 1970. 
3. Balance of payments. 
A. What in the Council's judgment is the outlook over 
coming months for U.S. bank borrowings of Euro-dollars 
through foreign branches? 
The Council believes that U.S. bank borrowing of Euro-dollars 
through foreign branches will continue in volume in the coming months, 
dictated largely by the relative cost of such funds. Until the reserve 
position of the nation's money center banks eases considerably, the 
Euro-dollar market will continue as a major source of funds. For 
example, the recent proposal by the Federal Reserve Board to apply 
Regulations Q and D to bank-related commercial paper probably will cause 
banks to step up their Euro-dollar borrowings even though this will 
result in increased required reserves. 
B. What effect has the uncertainty about the German 
mark over the past six months or so had on flows 
of liquid funds and credit from the United States? 
During the six months or so of German mark uncertainty that 
preceded the floating and subsequent formal revaluation of the mark, 
there were sizable flows of liquid funds into the German mark from 
the United States. 
So far perhaps $1-1/2 - $2 billion has flowed out of Germany 
since the end of September when the mark was floated. Very little 
of this appears to have returned to the United States, although consid-
erable capital flows to the United States may occur before the end of 
the year, particularly to meet OFDI guidelines. 
For the present most 
of the outflow from marks appears to have gone into various European 
countries as well as the Euro-dollar market. 
There was no significant discussion of these topics. 

3 4 8 9 
11/18/69 
-21-
4. What are the Council's views on monetary and credit 
policy under current circumstances? 
The Council strongly supports the Board's objective of slow-
ing the economy so as to moderate inflationary pressures, and as a 
consequence is in sympathy with present monetary policy. Moreover, 
while the members of the Council recognize there is additional 
evidence that the credit restraint efforts are having an impact and 
slowing the pace of business, an easing of the present restraints 
is not now appropriate. However, the Council does not believe addi-
tional restraint is warranted at this time, and questions the Board's 
recent proposal relating to commercial paper issued by bank holding 
companies and bank affiliates. 
President Mayer stated that his was a minority view within the 
Council. He wondered whether it was not time to take the foot off the 
brake a little. He was not sure, but he felt that in any event the point 
where some easing might be called for was very close at hand. 
Chairman Martin asked what, in the judgment of the Council, would 
result if monetary policy were eased. 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that inflationary forces would become 
more vigorous. His bank's economic staff believed that there would be a 
recession no matter what course was now taken. In his own view, if the 
foot were taken off the brake the economy might bounce back faster than 
desired. 
Mr. Wilkinson said it seemed clear to him, in comparing the Council' 
current discussion with the discussion in September, that it was the con-
sensus that the point where easing would be desirable was much closer now. 
This conclusion was based not only on the passage of time but also on a 
sensing of attitudes. 

3490 
11/18/69 
-22-
Mr. Nason said some Council members felt that, in contrast to 
certain earlier periods, it might not take very much easing or very much 
time after easing for the economy to respond, in view of the pent-up 
demands for housing, plant improvement, and especially in the public 
sector. He personally believed that continuing to keep the foot on the 
brake for a while would not involve too much risk. 
In response to a question by Chairman Martin, members of the 
Council indicated that Christmas retail trade was likely to be disap-
pointing this year. 
Mr. Wilkinson commented that he was puzzled as to how the banking 
system could improve its liquidity even if monetary policy were eased. 
At present virtually all bank liquidity had been soaked up, and as far 
as he could see improvement could be achieved only by an increase in 
deposits or a reduction of loans. He did not know how any additional time 
money could be obtained if the maximum rate on CD's remained at 6-1/4 per 
cent. Even if the Federal Reserve eased its policy, he could not see 
that the banking system would gain enough liquidity to enable it to make 
a substantial volume of mortgage loans, for example. He realized, how-
ever, that once a trend toward ease started, momentum might quickly develop. 
Mr. Gray observed that one of the most important problems with 
which the Federal Reserve had to deal was public psychology. 
If the gains 
that had been made so far by holding to a restrictive policy should be 
lost, it would be extremely difficult ever again to persuade the American 

^w 
I 
' A 
i ••••'{! 
3191 
11/18/69 
-23-
people that the Government would persevere in efforts to contain infla-
tion. 
In his view, the danger of over-staying restraint would involve 
less of a risk than'relaxing too quickly, because of the built-in rebound 
fa ctor of pent-up demands. 
Mr. Graham agreed that if inflation were not thwarted now it would 
be far more difficult to do so at a later time. The Federal Reserve must 
at least run some risk of throwing the economy into a slightly greater 
downturn than was desired. 
5. The Council would welcome consideration of and an 
exchange of views on the Board's recent proposal 
that would make commercial paper sold by one-bank 
holding companies subject to the interest rate 
ceilings of Regulation Q. 
The Council believes the recent proposal making commercial 
paper issued by one-bank holding companies subject to Regulation Q 
is ill-timed and unnecessary and may be illegal. This paper has 
provided a partial and very modest replacement of the serious run-
off of negotiable certificates of deposit. Moreover, the availa-
bility of funds through the commercial paper market tends to help 
the small borrower who has no direct access to the market. 
There is growing evidence that the economy has slowed. The 
money center banks which have borne the brunt of the present restraint 
effort are at the point where loan growth has virtually halted. 
The 
use of commercial paper would not permit an expansion in loans (and 
corresponding increase in deposits) of the banking system unless the 
monetary authorities increased reserves. What it would permit would 
be the more efficient use of money flows by permitting their alloca-
tion by the nation's banks. 
Further restraint at this time does not 
seem appropriate. 
Mr. Moore said the Council thought the Board had been misinformed 
if it believed that the commercial paper proposal would hit only a few 
money market banks. As indicated in connection with the preceding question, 

3 4 9 2 
11/18/69 
-24-
the Council believed that the present degree of monetary restraint was 
warranted but that no additional restraint should be applied. Yet the 
very fact that the commercial paper proposal had been published for 
comment had pushed up the Euro-dollar rate. Without question, if the 
proposal were adopted, money rates in Europe would be driven up unduly. 
Banks in the U.S. had been adjusting their positions as quickly as they 
reasonably could, and many did not have access to the Euro-dollar market 
a s a means of adjustment. The commercial paper proposal had been presented 
a s a closing of a loophole, but its implications were far broader. 
Chairman Martin commented that it was important to the Board to 
have the Council's judgment. The commercial paper proposal had not been 
looked upon by the Board as a tightening measure. A number of banks had 
indicated to the Board that, although they had not resorted to commercial 
PaPer as yet because they assumed the Board did not approve, they were 
ready to do so unless the Board expressed itself to the contrary. 
If the 
Board did not give a clear answer, it would at least be condoning the 
U S e of commercial paper by all institutions that wanted to reach into that 
market. Moral suasion should not be relied upon to deal with the problem. 
Mr. Graham remarked that the bulk of commercial paper was of short 
maturity. 
xt would run off quickly, and the main recourse of banks then 
v°l*ld be to the Euro-dollar market. An increase in Euro-dollar takings 
QUld surely be expected, with an increase in rates. 
Chairman Martin inquired whether the Council members were unani-
mous i n 
regarding the proposal as a tightening measure, and affirmative 
resPonses were made. 

34**3 
11/18/69 
-25-
Mr. Nason observed that interior banks would have a difficult 
time replacing funds as commercial paper ran off, since they did not 
have ready access to the Euro-dollar market and in any event they were 
faced with statutory borrowing limitations. 
Mr. Moore commented that his bank had been projecting a substantial 
decline in its Euro-dollar holdings by mid-January, but it was now bidding 
to get back those funds. 
Mr. Wilkinson asked if it was not felt that the Board was accom-
plishing what was desired in the way of credit restraint. 
If additional 
screws were turned, the desired result might be attained faster, but at 
undetermined cost. If results were not being achieved, he could see that 
the Board would be looking for means of applying additional pressure; but 
if monetary policy was proving effective, he could not see the need to 
apply further restrictions. 
Chairman Martin said he did not think there was any question that 
some progress was being made. However, he again emphasized that the commer-
cial paper proposal had not been intended as a tightening measure. The 
B°ard had had to take a position in the face of the expressed intention of 
additional banks to go into the commercial paper market heavily. 
Mr. Graham commented that his bank did not use commercial paper to 
e*Pand its total funds but only as an alternative when it was cheaper than 
Euro-dollars or Federal funds. 
Mr. Larkin said that was true also of his bank. 
Its whole intent 
W a s not to increase its loans but to reduce its reliance on Euro-dollars; 

11/18/69 
-26-
there was no connection with lending policy. His bank would definitely 
consider the commercial paper proposal a tightening move, and he thought 
the public as a whole would regard it as another twist of the screw. 
Mr. Fox remarked that, although he shared the view that some 
tightening might occur, he appreciated the reason why there might be 
need for regulatory action on commercial paper. His bank had not organized 
a holding company to issue commercial paper. As a defensive measure, how-
ever, it and many other banks in the same position might have to do so if 
the Board did not take some action. 
Mr. Moore expressed the view that many complaints would be received 
from medium-size banks that did not have access to the Euro-dollar market 
and would feel more of the pinch of monetary policy than they had up to 
now. 
Mr. Craft remarked that the maturity aspect was important. 
His 
bank had relatively extended maturities on Euro-dollars, for which it had 
Paid a high price. 
It had been trying to avoid Federal funds and to get 
some maturity on funds from other sources. 
It was uncomfortable to make 
a 90-day loan on one-day money. 
Chairman Martin observed that the Council had not reiterated its 
earlier position in favor of removing or raising the ceiling interest rates 
°n large CD's. 
The Council replied that it had not repeated its recommendation 
simply because it was so clearly on record. 

3 4 * * 5 
11/18/69 
-27-
Chairman Martin then inquired what rate would have to be allowed 
on large CD's to enable banks to sell them to any extent. 
The replies suggested that the ceiling should be removed, since 
large CD's were a money market instrument, or that at least the commer-
cial paper rate should be allowed to be paid. This referred to CD's over 
$500,000, or at least over $1 million. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council would be held 
on February 5-6, 1970. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
/^Secretary 
/ 
