MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 14, 1972 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Monday, February 14, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 2/ 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller and Mr. Plotkin, Advisers, Legal 
Division 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
1
 International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Miss Key, and Mr. Wilbanks, 
Technical Assistants, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members 
Entered meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

375 
2/14/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved an application 
o f
 The Bank of Russellville, Russellville, Arkansas, to issue capital 
notes, 
a copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. i. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order and statement 
E l e c t i n g approval on January 21, 1972, of the applications of First 
a t
 Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of The 
Commercial Bank & Trust Company of Ocala, Ocala, Florida, and Citizens 
Commercial Bank of Ocala (a proposed new bank). Copies of the documents 
a r e
 attached under Item No. 2, along with copies of a concurring and 
dissenting statement by Governors Maisel and Brimmer and a dissenting 
s t
atement by Governor Robertson. 
The Board unanimously approved an application of BancOhio 
Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Ohio Savings 
&
 Trust Company, New Philadelphia, Ohio, and authorized the issuance 
o f
 an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a S
 l£em No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved an application of First Florida 
incorporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of First National 
B a
n k of Titusville, Titusville, Florida, and authorized the issuance 
o f
 an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
a s
 Item No. 4. 

376 
2/14/72 
-10-
The Board unanimously approved an application of Clearing 
Bancorporation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of shares of State Bank of Clearing, 
Chicago, Illinois, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Michigan National Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated Jan-
uary 27, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, 
Michigan, to become a bank holding company by acquiring directly 
shares in five Michigan banks and acquiring indirectly the interest 
now owned by The Michigan National Bank Profit Sharing Trust in seven 
other Michigan banks. Subsequently, questions were raised with Michigan 
National Corporation with respect to the capital position of subsidiary 
banks in the proposed organization, and the corporation's response was 
submitted with a February 11, 1972, memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation. 
Discussion indicated a disposition on the part of the Board to 
approve the application provided a satisfactory capital position was 
assured. However, reservations were expressed as to the adequacy of 
Plans of Michigan National Corporation to improve the capital situation. 
The consensus that emerged favored requesting the corporation to raise 
an additional $30 million of capital through sale of equity in the 

377 
2/14/72 
-10-
holding company, and posing further questions with respect to equity 
marketability and the time schedule within which a capital improvement 
program could be accomplished. 
Action on the application was deferred pending further explo-
ration of the matter with the applicant. 
In a memorandum of January 27, 1972, the Legal Division 
recommended denial of requests by the Commissioner of the Financial 
Institutions Bureau for the State of Michigan and a Michigan bank that 
a hearing be held with respect to the application of Michigan National 
Corporation. The Board concurred in that recommendation. 
In a memorandum dated January 25, 1972, the Divisions of 
Research and Statistics and Supervision and Regulation discussed the 
question of stock offers in bank holding company acquisitions and 
recommended that the Board's policy of requiring the same offer to all 
shareholders should be continued. However, with respect to out-of-State 
shareholders, the additional recommendation was made that a de minimis 
rule be adopted providing an exemption to this requirement under 
certain circumstances. 
The Board accepted the de_ minimis proposal, but with the 
understanding that in the future application would be made on a case-by-
case basis. 

378 
2/14/72 
-10-
State National Bancshares. On December 9, 1971, the Board 
discussed, but deferred action on, an application of State National 
Bancshares, Inc., El Paso, Texas, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of (1) shares of the successor by merger to 
The State National Bank of El Paso and (2) indirect control (through 
acquisition of shares of the latter's wholly-owned subsidiary, The 
Flory Company, El Paso) of shares of Bassett National Bank, El Paso, 
Citizens State Bank of Ysleta, and The First National Bank of Fabens, 
all in Texas. 
At the December 9 meeting, questions were raised with respect 
to the banking structure in Texas, with particular emphasis on the 
El Paso banking market. In memoranda dated January 27 and January 17, 
1972, respectively, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Banking Markets Section provided additional information in this area. 
Question was also raised whether the Board might deny an application 
for permission to form a bank holding company on the grounds that a 
Proposed subsidiary bank owned corporate stock in violation of section 
5136 of the Revised Statutes, which contains a general prohibition 
against stock acquisitions by a national bank. In a memorandum dated 
January 26, 1972, the Legal Division considered this question in detail 
and concluded in the affirmative, under certain circumstances. 

379 
2/14/72 
-10-
After discussion, the Board approved the application, Governor 
Robertson dissenting. 
It was understood that an order reflecting the 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, along with 
a dissenting statement. 
Trans Texas Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated January 27, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval 
of an application of Trans Texas Bancorporation, Inc., El Paso, Texas, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of 
the following El Paso banks: 
El Paso National Bank, First State Bank, 
Northgate National Bank of El Paso, and Border City Bank. The Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Banking Markets Section concurred in 
the recommendation. 
In a memorandum dated January 21, 1972, the Legal Division 
considered the question whether an application should be required 
from a bank holding company when the holding company formation was 
in effect (as in the present instance) a reorganization of the corporate 
structure of allied banks. The Division concluded that normally such 
an application should be required. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Robertson 
dissenting. 
It was understood that an order reflecting the decision 
Would be prepared for the Board's consideration and that a statement 
reflecting Governor Robertson's dissent would also be prepared. 

380 
2/14/72 
-10-
First City Bancorporation of Texas. In a memorandum dated 
i' i; 
January 27, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of an application of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., 
Houston, Texas, to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities of 
Midland National Corporation, Midland, Texas, which owned shares of 
The Midland National Bank, Midland, and of United Bank Shares, Inc., 
El Paso, which in turn owned Southwest National Bank of El Paso. The 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas and the Banking Markets Section concurred 
in the recommendation. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
i 
the issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 6. 
Vt,, 
, 
Bank of New York Company. In a memorandum dated December 15, 
1971, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended denial 
°f an application of The Bank of New York Company, Inc., New York, New 
York, to acquire shares of the successor by merger to Valley National 
Bank of Long Island, Valley Stream, New York. The Banking Markets 
Section concurred in the recommendation, while the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York recommended approval. 
In a memorandum dated February 9, 1972, the Division of Super-
v
ision and Regulation summarized the arguments advanced by the New York 
State Superintendent of Banks which led to approval of the proposal by 

381 
2/14/72 
-10-
the State Banking Board. However, it was the conclusion of the Division 
that the fac tors set forth in its memorandum of December 15 continued 
to support a recommendation for denial. 
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer dissenting. 
It was understood that an order 
reflecting the decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, 
along with a dissenting statement. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point, as did 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director. 
County National Bancorporation. On January 25, 1972, the Board 
discussed, but deferred action on, an application of County National 
Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri, to acquire shares of Big Bend Bank, 
Webster Groves, Missouri. The Division of Supervision and Regulation, 
in 
a memorandum dated December 13, 1971, had recommended denial of the 
application while the recommendations of the Banking Markets Section 
and of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis were favorable. 
Subsequently, 
a letter was received from the Department of Justice concluding that 
the acquisition's overall effect on competition would be significantly 
adverse, and in a memorandum dated January 18, 1972, the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation, after considering the points made by 
County National Bancorporation in response to the Department's findings, 
again concluded that the application should be denied. 

382 
2/14/72 
-10-
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sheehan dissenting. 
It was understood that an 
order and statement reflecting the decision would be prepared for the 
Board's consideration, along with a dissenting statement. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the following topics 
then withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Axilrod and Gramley, Associate Directors, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Other officers of the research divisions and supporting 
staff 
Economic review. The research staff presented a review of 
domestic and international developments of the kind customarily given 
in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for this review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Governor Sheehan withdrew from the meeting during the economic 
review. The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. On February 10, 1972, the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis had established, subject to review 
and determination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4 per cent 
(a decrease from 4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for and advances to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, 
! r •. 
t* 
- 
- ;; 

383 
2/14/72 
-10-
a rate of 4-1/2 per cent on advances to member banks under section 
oi.lJ, . 
;> . - . i. , 
.; i: t, 
; • .. • 
' 
• '. 
10(b) of the Act, and a rate of 6 per cent on advances to individuals, 
He j i i ' o m '
 :
v 
r.)iviion • -
^ 
. L " sua 
. • v • 
. 
partnerships, and corporations other than member banks under the 
last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
During the discussion it was noted that a lower discount rate 
might be generally consistent with current levels of short-term market 
interest rates. It was suggested, however, that any reduction in the 
discount rate might have to be reversed later if staff expectations of 
higher short-term rates over the months ahead were realized. It was 
also suggested that a discount rate cut at this time might be misunder-
stood abroad and might foster speculation against the dollar in foreign 
exchange markets. 
After further consideration, a majority view developed against 
taking any action today, partly on the ground that it would be preferable 
to reconsider the desirability of such action following the meeting of 
the Federal Open Market Committee on February 15. The matter was 
therefore deferred. 
Other discount rates. The Board then approved unanimously 
action taken by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on February 7 and 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on February 10, 1972, establishing without 
change the rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to the 
respective Banks. 

384 
2/14/72 
-10-
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff 
Smith, Molony, and O'Connell then withdrew from the meeting and Mr. 
Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, entered. 
Mr. Mcintosh reported on several developments regarding 
stolen currency. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
2/14/72 
ADDRESS OrriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
February 14, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The Bank of Russellville 
Russellville, Arkansas 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $200,000 
in subordinated capital debentures by The Bank of Russellville, 
Russellville, Arkansas, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis. Approval is granted with the understanding that 
the sale of these capital debentures will be consummated within 
six-months from the date of this letter. It is further understood 
that any advertising with respect to the obligations will, in 
addition to being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 
of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
from a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type that 
the obligation is subordinated to the claims of depositors and 
not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

386 
Item No. 2 
2/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a
s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire at least 90 per cent of the voting 
shares of The Commercial Bank & Trust Company of Ocala, Ocala, Florida 
("Commercial Bank"), and of Citizens Commercial Bank of Ocala, Ocala, 
Florida ("Citizens Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a n ( i
 views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f
 the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
t h
e reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. The 
t r
ansactions shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
C a
lendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than 
thr 
r
ee months after the date of this Order; and (c) Citizens Commercial 

387 
-2-
Bank of Ocala, Ocala, Florida, shall be opened for business not later 
than six months after the date of this Order. Each of the periods 
described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority, 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
(SEAL) 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
1/ Approval of acquisition of The Commercial Bank & Trust Company of Ocala. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governor 
Robertson. 
Approval of acquisition of Citizens Commercial Bank of Ocala. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson, Maisel, 
and Brimmer. 

388 
STATEMENT BY BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM REGARDING 
APPLICATIONS BY FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANKS 
Nature of transaction. First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, 
Florida, a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to § 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of at least 90 per cent 
of the voting shares of The Commercial Bank & Trust Company of Ocala, 
°cala, Florida ("Commercial Bank") and c»f Citizens Commercial Bank of 
0 c
a l a , Ocala, Florida ("Citizents Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Statutory considerations. Applicant controls 20 banks, with 
a
8gregate deposits of $670 million, and is the fifth largest banking 
organization in Florida with 4.6 per cent of deposits in the State, 
The acquisition of Commercial Bank (deposits of $42 million) and of 
Citiz ens Bank, a proposed new bank, would increase Applicant s share 
1/ 
deposits in the State by less than half a per cent. 
In connection with the review of the applications the Board has 
considered a comment from the Department of Justice which concluded that 
consummation of the proposal would "clearly have an adverse effect on 
Competition", The Department acknowledged that consummation would 
n o t
 eliminate any actual competition between either Citizens Bank or 
Commercial Bank, and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. However, the 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through November 30, 1971. 

389 
-2-
D e
Partment stated that it believed that consummation of the proposal 
W o u
l d have an adverse effect upon potential competition in Marion County 
in which Ocala is located. The Department stated that Marion County 
W a s a
 particularly fast growing community and a desirable one for de_ novo 
e
ntry. Moreover, the Department asserted that Marion County was a con-
C e
ntrated market for which potential competition was important. The 
Apartment concluded that even though First at Orlando was only one 
among "several other large banking organizations" which would have to be 
c
°nsidered as potential entrants into Marion County, the overall effects 
Permitting it to acquire both Commercial and Citizens Bank would have 
a n
 adverse effect on competition. 
Applicant took the position in reply to the Department's 
Comments that Marion County was not a concentrated market, pointing 
°
ut
 it was one of the least concentrated in Florida. 
Additionally, 
Applicant stated that Marion County's rate of growth was lower than 
n e
 State's growth rate and that Marion County had a smaller population 
p e r
 banking office than was present at the State level. For these 
t e
asons, Applicant argued Marion County was not attractive for entry. 
There is little, if any, existing competition between the 
banks sought to be acquired and any subsidiary of Applicant, 
applicant's closest subsidiary is over 35 miles distant and there is 
*
tt:
le or no service overlap. There also is small likelihood of any 
°nipetition developing between Commercial Bank and Citizens Bank since 
b e h o l d e r s of the former have subscribed for over 98 per cent of the 

-3-
330 
v
oting shares of the latter, so that Applicant's acquisition of both 
banks would have little effect on the competitive situation existing 
b e
tween them. 
Conaurination of the proposal would not have a substantial 
effect on any potential competition between Applicant and either 
Commercial Bank or Citizens Bank. Marion County is not a particularly 
a
ttractive market for de novo entry. The ratio of deposits per banking 
o f
fice in Marion County is only a little more than half of the State-
wide ratio and Marion County's growth rate is not such that this situation 
w i
U likely change in the near future. The potential for entry through 
a
 foothold acquisition is also limited. The second and third largest 
banks in the market are already affiliated with holding companies. Two 
o f
 the remaining independent banks in Marion County are in rural areas 
atl
d are not of interest to Applicant, while the remaining independent 
baT
*k has shown no interest in being acquired by Applicant. 
Finally, 
w
ben considering the small size of the market with total deposits of 
a
bout only $120 million, Marion County with its six banks does net 
a
P^ear to be a particularly concentrated market so that potential 
competition is not as important as it might be in the context of a 
severely concentrated market. Moreover, though . Commercial Bank 
l s
 the largest bank in Marion County, Applicant is unlikely to gain a 
d
°minant position since the second and third largest banks in the market 
a r e
 subsidiaries of the second and third largest banking organizations 
itl
 Florida. The Board concludes that the competitive effects of the 
pr
°Posal are not inconsistent with approval of the applications. 

330 
-3-
The financial condition of Applicant, its subsidiary banks 
and of Commercial Bank and Citizens Bank is satisfactory and prospects 
of each are favorable. These considerations are consistent with approval 
of the applications. Consummation of Applicant's proposal would have a 
beneficial effect o n the c o n v e n i e n c e and needs in Marion County since 
A p p l i c a n t would enable Commercial Bank and Citizens Bank to increase 
their effective lending capacities through participation arrangements 
with Applicant's other subsidiaries. Applicant also proposes to assist 
Commercial Bank and Citizens Bank in approving and expanding their 
services, with particular emphasis on trust services. 
Considerations 
relating to this factor lend some weight for approval of these applications. 
Summary and conclusion. On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed trans-
actions are in the public interest and that the applications should be 
approved. 
F e b r u a r y 
1 4 , 
1 9 7 2 . 

^Yl 
STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS MAISEL AND BRIMMER 
FOR APPROVAL OF 
THE COMMERCIAL BANK & TRUST COMPANY OF OCALA, 
AND, IN EFFECT, FOR DENIAL OF 
CITIZENS COMMERCIAL BANK OF OCALA 
392 
In our judgment the acquisition of Commercial Bank alone 
w
°
u
ld be consistent with the public interest. The owners of Commercial 
B
ank also own Citizens Bank and have stated that they would sell the 
a n k s
 only as a package. The interests of the present owners can be 
^tmonized with the public interest by permitting Applicant's acquisi-
t i o n
 of both banks on condition that it sell the new bank before it 
is °Pened for business. Accordingly, we believe it desirable to approve 
th 
e
 application of Citizens Bank in limited circumstances that amount to 
a
 denial of the application. 
In general, we agree with the conclusions of the majority 
n c
erning the acquisition of Commercial Bank. No existing competition 
°
u
ld be eliminated and the proposal must be evaluated in light of 
effects on potential competition. We agree that adverse effects 
Potential competition in the acquisition 
of Commercial Bank alone 
not serious enough 
to call for a denial of the application. 
Marion County is a concentrated market and in such a 
Ite 
on 
or 
e t
 the Board should attempt to preserve as many alternatives 
Potential entrants as possible. Citizens has one of the best 
°ationg 
a r e a j being located near an industrial park, junior 
and housing development; and its chartering will likely 
O r
<*los e other entrants to that area for some period of time. 
'V' '''I:;-

303 
-2-
We agree, therefore, with the Department of Justice that 
Applicant's proposed entry into Marion County through the acquisi-
tion of the largest bank in the market, and a new bank in one of 
its most desirable areas, would together have an adverse effect on 
competition which is not outweighed by any benefits to the public. 
°^ners of both banks have stated that they would sell both banks as 
a
 Package. Accordingly, since Applicant's acquisition of the larger 
b a
nk would be in the public interest, we would approve 
acquisition 
o f
 both banks, on condition that Applicant sell the new bank before it 
is opened for business. 
February 14, 1972. 

334 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
FOR DENIAL OF BOTH APPLICATIONS 
Applicant controls 20 banks (deposits $670 million) and 
the fifth largest banking organization in the State and the lead-
i n
8 banking organization in Central Florida. It has applied to 
aC(
luire the Commercial Bank & Trust Company of Ocala ($41.7 million 
d e
Posits) and Citizens Commercial Bank of Ocala, a proposed new 
Applicant 
controls the largest banking organizations in 
O r
lando (70 miles to the southwest of Ocala), the largest bank in 
L e
esburg (35 miles to the southeast), the largest bank in Daytona 
miles to the northeast), and the second largest bank in 
G a
inesvill e (35 miles to the north). 
Commercial Bank is the largest of six banks in Marion 
C
°unty W i t h 34 per cent of deposits; the three largest banks therein 
c
°ntrol over 80 per cent of market deposits. In § 3 cases the 
to 
°ard should exercise its assigned responsibilities to promote 
which would advance the public interest. 
Clearly, 
^Plicant' s de novo or foothold entry into Marion County would be 
p t e
ferable to the proposed acquisition—from a competitive viewpoint— 
could be considered likely because of the projected growth of the 
Moreover, Applicant's proposal to acquire Citizens Bank 
increases the adverse competitive effects of the 
°Posal. Citizens Bank's proposed location appears to be desirable 

335 
-2-
ai
*d is close to the new Ocala Industrial Park and a new housing 
development. For Applicant to acquire the largest bank in Marion 
County alone, or together with the Bank's affiliate, would have a 
c l e
a r and significantly adverse effect on potential competition. 
Ending no offsetting benefits to the public, I would deny the 
j i i* 
a
Pplications. 
x. ••• j \ ;.'•':•.. ,' 
. • • 
February 14, 1972, 
Hi 

Item No, 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
2/14/72 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
a
Pplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.c. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
v 
shares of The Ohio Savings & Trust Company, New Philadelphia, Ohio 
("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a l
l comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f
 the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank holding company and second 
, - y . ... 
'• 
.Ur 
. • 
^
a r
gest banking organization in Ohio, has 30 subsidiary banks con-
lolling deposits of approximately $1.6 billion, representing 7.3 
cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through January 31, 
l 9 7
2 . ) 
Consummation of the proposal herein would increase the per-
centage of total State deposits controlled by Applicant slightly to 
per cent and Applicant would remain the State's second largest 
banking organization. 

337 
-2-
Bank with deposits of $21.0 million controls 13 per cent 
deposits within Tuscarawas County which approximates the relevant 
^tlcet within which the competitive aspects of the proposal are to 
considered. Bank Is the third largest of eight banks in the 
^ k e t . The two larger banks, one of which is affiliated with the 
S t a t e
' s fifth largest holding company, hold 43 and 25 per cent, 
*
e
Qpectively, of market deposits and are the only banks providing 
sl
Bnificant competition to Bank in its primary service area. Approval 
the application should stimulate competition in the New Philadelphia-
area and may eventually diminish the percentage of deposits held 
the two larger banks. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary to Bank is located 30 miles 
There is, therefore, no meaningful existing competition 
*tween Bank and any of Applicant's subsidiaries. Due to size, 
8
tance, and the presence of intervening banks, it is considered 
likely that future competition will develop between them. Con-
N a t i o n of this proposal x^/ould thus foreclose neither existing 
tlOf 
Potential competition between Bank and any bank subsidiary of 
A p p l
icant. Affiliation with Applicant is likely to enable Bank to 
0ni
Pete more effectively in the market while not having a detrimental 
c t
 on smaller banks within the market. Accordingly, the Board con-
e s
 that competitive considerations are consistent with approval. 

338 
-2-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f
 Applicant and its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory. 
Bank's 
Present management is faced with resolving loan and capital problems. 
Applicant proposes to utilize its personnel to strengthen loan adminis-
tration; and Applicant has committed itself to raise Bank's capital to 
a
 level acceptable to its supervisory authorities within 18 months 
trough dividend restrictions and the injection of new capital if 
P e s s a r y . Accordingly, considerations related to financial and 
Managerial resources favor approval of the proposed acquisition. 
Applicant proposes to provide Bank with expertise which 
W(
>ul<i permit Bank to offer directly FHA and VA insured loans and to 
e
*Pand other banking services. Thus, considerations related to con-
Ver
*ience and needs of the communities involved are consistent with 
a
Pproval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
W
°
u
ld be in the public interest and that the application should be 
a
PPtoved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h e
 reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 

339 
-4-
P e r i o d
 is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
February 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAl] 
fr^ 
> Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not 
t i n
8 : Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 
2/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST FLORIDA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of First National Bank of Titusville, Titusville, 
F l o r i d a ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls 23 banks with total aggregate deposits 
of $445 million, representing 3.0 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in Florida and is the sixth largest banking organization 
It 
N 
in the State."" Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $16 million) would 
not change this ranking and would add only one-tenth per cent to 
A p p l i c a n t ' s 
s h a r e o f d e p o s i t s 
i n t h e State. There i s n o 
e x i s t i n g 
competition between any of Applicant's subsidiaries or Bank, with 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through December 31 

401 
-2-
the closest subsidiary about 35 miles away. Moreover, due to this 
distance, the large number of intervening banks and Florida's 
branching laws, there is little likelihood of substantial competition 
developing between this or any other of Applicant's subsidiaries and 
Bank. Additionally, there is little probability of de novo entry by 
Applicant into the Northern Brevard area in which Titusville is 
located since this area has become economically unattractive due to 
the cutbacks in the space program at nearby Cape Kennedy. Moreover, 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank could have pro-competitive effects 
since Bank is only the sixth largest of 10 banks - with less than 
10 per cent of area deposits - and two of the larger area banks are 
a
ffiliated with large holding companies. Applicant could enable Bank 
to more vigorously compete with these institutions. 
Considerations 
r e
lating to competition are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory and 
consistent with approval. Considerations relating to the convenience 
a
nd needs of the communities are also consistent with approval of 
t
he application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

339 
-4-
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
^less such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
j^tchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns. 

AG 3 
Item No. 5 
2/14/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CLEARING BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Clearing Bancorporation, Inc., Chicago, Illinois, has applied 
the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c
t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)), for the formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 89.9 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
S t
ate Bank of Clearing, Chicago, Illinois 
("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
a
U comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f
 the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
e
Xpress purpose of acquiring Bank which has aggregate deposits of 
approximately $48.9 million. (All banking data are as of June 30, 
All shareholders of Bank are being accorded equal treatment. 
Since Applicant has no present operations or subsidiaries, it appears 
fc
hat consummation of the proposal would not affect existing or poten-
tial competition, nor have an adverse effect on any other bank in 
area. 
The banking considerations are consistent with approval of 
application. The financial and managerial resources of Bank and 
prospects are regarded as generally satisfactory. Applicant has 
n o t
 commenced operations; thus, its financial condition, management 

a
nd prospects are dependent upon those of Bank. Applicant's projected 
e
arnings appear to be sufficient to service the debt which it will in-
C u
r upon consummation of the proposed transaction without adversely 
a
ffecting Bank
1
s capital structure. The proposed acquisition is not 
Ukely to have any significant immediate effect on the convenience 
at
*d needs of the community. This aspect of the proposal is consistent 
^ith approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°
r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
s
^ch psriod is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Covernors Mitchell, 
D
aane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST CITY BANCORPORATION OF TEXAS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., Houston, Texas, 
a
 bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c
t , has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C, 1842(a)(3)) to acquire the assets and assume the liabilities 
o f
 Midland National Corporation, Midland, which owns 83.3 per cent of 
the voting shares of The Midland National Bank, Midland ("Midland 
B a
nk"), and 24.5 per cent of the voting shares of United Bank Shares, 
El Paso, a holding company owning 100 per cent (less directors' 
^alifying shares) of the shares of Southwest National"Bank, of El Paso, El 
p
aao ("Southwest Bank"), all in Texas. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
a c
cordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
a
nd views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f
 the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant,.the third largest banking organization in Texas, 
c
°ntrols six banks with aggregate deposits of $1,186,3 million, which 
amounts to 4.5 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in Texas. 
Cor
*summation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's share 
t 
1/ 
0
 4*8 p e r cent. 
Since Applicant will indirectly control only 24.5 per cent of the voting 
^ares of Southwest Bank, the deposit totals for that bank have not been 
n c
luded in that figure. 
405 
Item No. 6 
2/14/72 

406 
-2-
Midland Bank ($78.7 million in deposits), the second largest 
o f
 eight banks in the Midland-Odessa area, holds 19.2 per cent of deposits 
fc
We, 
while the largest bank in this area holds 42.1 per cent of deposits 
itl
 the area. Applicant's present subsidiaries are all located in or near 
t h
e Houston SMSA, over 400 miles from Midland Bank. It appears that con-
futation of the proposal would not eliminate any existing competition and 
S h o u l
<* strengthen Midland Bank's ability to compete with the area's largest 
Southwest Bank ($67.3 million in deposits) is the third largest 
^
a n
king organization in the El Paso area, and controls 11.9 per cent of 
^posits in the area. Two El Paso chain-banking systems have section 3(a)(1) 
Plications 
pending before the Board. Tfiese two systems are the largest 
n c l s
er.ond largest banking organizations in the area and, combined, control 
78 2 Per cent of deposits, and eight of the \3 banks in the area. Each of 
A p
Plicant's present subsidiaries is over 700 miles from Southwest Bank. It 
a
PPeai-c ..I 
c s
 that consummation of the subject proposal would not eliminate any 
e
*ist-i 
' 
competition and may eventually lead to sojne deconcentration among 
b a n k s 
i n
 the El Paso area. 
Although the banking needs of the Midland-Odessa and El Paso 
a r e a s » respectively, are generally being served now, the customers of both 
d l a n d 
B
*nk and Southwest Bank should benefit from the proposed affilia-
tions 
' Applicant could lend its expertise to both banks in making oil and 
r
°leum loans, which should benefit the local petroleum - oriented economies 

407 
-3-
Southwest Bank could benefit from Applicant's expertise with respect to 
commercial lending and trust activities. Considerations related to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some weight 
t Q
ward approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant and its present subsidiaries and of Midland Bank are regarded as 
generally satisfactory. Southwest Bank is in need of additional capital. 
Consummation of the proposal herein should assure Southwest Bank of an 
Adequate source for capital funds as needed. Considerations related to the 
^sources and future prospects of Applicant and its present and proposed 
8 u
bsidiaries 
are consistent with approval. It is the Board s judgment 
t h a
t the proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the 
a
PPlication should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
^ascms summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
b e f
o r e the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
Xat-
C G r
 than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
1-8
 extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 14, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
( 
Tynan Smith 
^ L ) 
Secretary of the Board 
jj 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
< h e U , Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not 
i n
8 : 
Chairman Burns. 
