Minutes for April 25, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 1.0 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advis 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Roberts 
Governor Shepards 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 

1552 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 25, 1967. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
M r . Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
M r . Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders, Senior Attorneys, 
Legal Division 
Delegation of Board functions. 
There had been distributed a 
m e
niorandum from M r . Hackley dated April 19, 1967, submitting a draft 
of 
Proposed rules regarding delegation of authority in the form in 
hich they might be published in the Federal Register. 
The rules 
—/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-2-
described certain functions of the Board, vested in it by statute or by 
the Board's regulations, that would be delegated. Also submitted was a 
list of functions of a nonstatutory or nonregulatory nature that might 
be delegated by the Board without publication in the Federal Register. 
The list of functions suggested for delegation was a revision 
°f the list proposed in an earlier memorandum from Mr. Hackley dated 
A
Pril 5, 1967. Among other things, the Federal Reserve Banks would be 
delegated many more functions than previously envisaged. 
The memorandum included a statement of suggested procedure for 
the review of delegated actions. 
It also set forth proposed internal 
delegation procedures. 
In another memorandum, dated April 24, 1967, Messrs. Dahl and 
F
°rrestal recommended that certain functions proposed to be delegated 
t o
 the Reserve Banks with respect to foreign banking matters be dele-
Sated instead to the Director of the Division of Examinations. 
Governor Shepardson stated that he and Governor Mitchell had 
r
eviewed the April 5 memorandum with Messrs. Sherman and Hackley. 
One 
f n 
^°cus of the ir efforts was to work out a review procedure that would 
m
eet the requirements of the law, provide adequate notice to the Board 
Members of pending items, and yet serve the real purpose of delegation 
authority, namely, to have matters acted upon expeditiously. 
It 
w
as believed that the review procedure now suggested would meet those 
o b
jectives. 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-3-
Turning to the functions proposed to be delegated, Governor 
Shepardson said it had seemed to him and Governor Mitchell that there 
were a number of items, in addition to those previously listed, that 
could appropriately be delegated to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
There-
fore, several items previously suggested for delegation to specified 
members of the Board's staff had been transferred to the list of func-
tions suggested for delegation to the Banks. 
Governor Shepardson added that the proposal now submitted was 
not necessarily regarded as final. With experience under the delega-
tion procedures, it might be found that some items should be removed 
from the list of delegated functions while other items could be added. 
However, it was believed generally that the list of functions and the 
suggested procedures would provide adequate implementation of the law, 
adequate control, and a significant amount of delegation. 
Governor Mitchell also spoke favorably with regard to the 
suggested review procedures and internal delegation procedures. As to 
the specific functions to be delegated, he believed the list was now 
satisfactory to transmit to the Reserve Banks for their comments, sub-
ject to the changes recommended by Messrs. Dahl and Forrestal. 
After 
fc
he Reserve Banks' comments were received, the Board could schedule 
another discussion focusing on specific questions. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that applications for 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System frequently involved policy 

4/25/67 
-4-
considerations and that it would be preferable for the Board to con-
tinue to act upon such applications. 
While discussion of this question revealed some difference of 
opinion, it was agreed that it would be appropriate not to include 
membership applications on the list of delegated functions for the 
Present. 
Governor Maisel also raised a question with regard to the pro-
posal to delegate to the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
authority to act on applications by banks in reserve cities for permis-
sion to maintain reduced reserves. He pointed out that rather complex 
questions sometimes were involved. 
Discussion of this point resulted in a suggestion by Governor 
Mitchell, with which agreement was expressed, that the delegated author 
x t
y not extend to action on applications where the applicant bank had 
d
emand deposits larger than the amount of demand deposits of the 
ingest bank in the same reserve city theretofore authorized to carry 
r
educed reserves. 
Governor Maisel indicated that he felt the whole area of appli-
C a
tions relating to the functions of Edge and agreement corporations 
Evolved policy decisions, and he questioned whether authority should 
be delegated. His comments went also to matters such as permission 
f o r
 U.S. banks to purchase stock of foreign banks. 

1 5 6 1 . 
4/25/67 
-5-
Governor Brimmer raised a question about the basic rationale 
for delegation. As he recalled, in earlier Board discussion of delega-
tion of functions there had been a consensus that policy matters were 
to remain in the hands of the Board. In his view, matters that affected 
the structure of the Federal Reserve System should remain in the hands 
of the Board, along with matters involving foreign policy and matters 
relating to relationships of the System with State supervisory author-
ities . 
Governor Daane expressed the view that the current proposals 
represented a long step in the right direction. He thought the shift 
toward delegating more functions to the Federal Reserve Banks was 
a
Ppropriate. He agreed with Governor Brimmer that the Board should 
n
ot relieve itself from responsibility on the policy side, and that 
deluded matters involving foreign policy. 
Mr. Hackley observed that in the proposed rules there was an 
explicit provision that any delegee handling a case that involved 
unusual or complex problems would be entitled to refer the matter to 
the Board. He thought it likely that the Reserve Banks would lean over 
backward in referring questionable cases to the Board. He also noted 
that some items in the foreign banking area previously proposed to be 
delegated were now proposed to be retained in the Board. Some others 
w
ere now to be delegated to the Director of the Division of Examina-
tions rather than to the Reserve Banks. However, if the Board felt 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-6-
there was any question about the delegation to the Reserve Banks of 
certain functions, it would seem preferable not to include those items 
on the tentative list of delegated functions that would be submitted 
to the Banks for comment. 
Governor Daane agreed and then inquired whether it was clear 
that delegations were revocable. Mr. Hackley replied that legally they 
were completely revocable. However, it might be rather difficult, in 
practice, to revoke some of them after the delegations had once been 
made. 
In response to a question from the Chairman, Governor Brimmer 
repeated that he would retain in the Board functions involving foreign 
Policy, System membership, and relations with State authorities. 
Governor Robertson agreed with Governor Brimmer and went on to 
suggest that the Board should try to distinguish between policy actions 
an
-d actions implementing policy decisions. 
The latter could appropri-
ately be delegated, while the first could not. Also, he would want to 
be cautious about delegating in the first instance functions about 
which there might be some doubt. The list of delegated functions could 
always be expanded in the light of experience, or shifts could be made, 
example from the Board's staff to the Reserve Banks. 
Governor Shepardson noted that the proposed list had been pre-
pared on a liberal basis, with the thought that it could be pared back 
t o
 such extent as the Board considered desirable. 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-7-
Governor Mitchell said it had not been the intent to delegate 
policy matters. However, he recognized that there might be differences 
of opinion as to what was a policy matter. He felt that in some cases 
it might be possible to work out a delegation satisfactorily within 
agreed-upon guidelines. 
Governor Daane withdrew from the meeting at this point to 
attend the meetings on international monetary reform being held in 
Washington this week. 
There followed discussion of several of the functions proposed 
to be delegated to the Reserve Banks or to be retained in the Board or 
its staff. In the latter case, it was pointed out that one objective 
w
as to achieve uniformity of treatment where such might not be achieved 
by delegation to the Reserve Banks. For example, few applications of 
certain types typically were received by a number of the Banks. 
General agreement then was expressed with the view stated 
earlier by Governor Brimmer with respect to retaining within the Board's 
Purview items in the foreign banking or financing area on the ground 
that foreign policy questions were involved. 
It was understood that 
the proposed list of delegated functions would be modified accordingly. 
This included acceptance of the recommendations in the Dahl-Forrestal 
Memorandum. 
These changes having been agreed upon, along with those decided 
u
Pon earlier during the discussion, unanimous approval was given to the 

1559 
4/25/67 
-8-
transmittal of the material on delegation of functions to the Federal 
Reserve Banks with a request for their comments. 
Messrs. Brill, Kiley, and Sanders then withdrew and the follow-
ing entered: 
Messrs. O'Connell, Noble, Via, and Shuter, and Miss Hart 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Egertson, Smith, Donovan, Harris, Lyon, Maguire, 
and Rumbarger of the Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Golden and Greenspun of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International Finance 
Columbia Bank and Trust Company. In view of a question that 
had been raised by Chairman Randall of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, Chairman Martin asked Mr. Solomon to review the applica-
tion made on behalf of Columbia Bank and Trust Company, a proposed new 
bank to be established in the town of Columbia, Maryland, for member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. The bank was to have been owned 
by a holding company, the stock of which would be held in equal amounts 
by 
Suburban Trust Company (Hyattsville) and Equitable Trust Company 
(Bait imore), both nonmember banks. The Board had been inclined to deny 
the application for membership, principally on the grounds of potential 
anticompetitive effects, and the application was then withdrawn. 
Application had now been filed on behalf of the bank for 
deposit insurance as a nonmember bank, and Chairman Randall had raised 
the question whether, if the application for deposit insurance were 
approved, the Board would feel compelled to bring action under section 7 
i 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-9-
of the Clayton Act to require divestiture of the holding company stock 
by the two nonmember banks. 
Mr. Hackley observed that the Clayton Act would be violated 
only if the lessening of competition was substantial, whereas the Board 
could turn down a membership application because of anticompetitive 
effects that, although not necessarily substantial, were considered 
significant enough to justify such action. The Department of Justice 
exercised concurrent jurisdiction with respect to section 7 of the 
Clayton Act and might be regarded as the expert department of the 
Government on antitrust laws. Possibly the Justice Department would 
feel strongly that here a Clayton Act violation would be involved. 
Therefore, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation might want to 
bring the facts of the case to the attention of the Department of Jus-
tice before proceeding to act on the application for deposit insurance, 
regardless of whether the Board would feel justified in instituting 
Proceedings under the Clayton Act. 
Governor Maisel recalled that at the Board's request he had 
discussed the membership application with the chief developer of 
Columbia, who it turned out had originally intended to negotiate only 
w
ith the Baltimore nonmember bank. However, when that bank brought 
the Hyattsville institution into the negotiations the developer appar-
ently was favorably inclined because that would advance the image of 
the community as one oriented toward both Baltimore and Washington. 
If 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-10-
anything, Governor Maisel said, his conversation with the developer of 
the community lent emphasis to the possibility that Clayton Act impli-
cations were involved, for the community was in an area where it might 
be expected that both Washington and Baltimore banks normally would 
compete. 
Mr. Solomon noted that the developer desired the establishment 
of a bank, as opposed to a branch of the Baltimore institution. 
However, 
under Maryland law the Baltimore bank could not control the stock of 
another bank. According to an opinion of the State Attorney General, 
if two banks held divided ownership the law would be satisfied. 
At the request of Chairman Martin, M r . Hackley repeated his 
suggestion that it be indicated to the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration that they might consider it desirable to check with the 
department of Justice. Whether the Board should bring proceedings 
under the Clayton Act would seem to depend upon a development of con-
siderable data concerning the relevant markets of the Baltimore and 
Hyattsville banks and the degree of existing competition between them, 
along with the potential for competition in the Columbia area. 
It 
Would seem difficult for the Board to make any judgment at present on 
bringing proceedings under the Clayton Act. 
Governor Robertson suggested advising the Federal Deposit 
insurance Corporation that there was the possibility of a case under 
the Clayton Act. Further, since the Board's jurisdiction with respect 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-11-
to section 7 was not exclusive but was shared with the Justice Depart-
ment, it might be wise for the Corporation to check with the Department. 
Governor Maisel suggested going somewhat further and indicating 
that if the application for membership had not been withdrawn the Board 
might have requested its staff to make a recommendation on whether 
there was a case for action under the Clayton Act; and further that 
the Justice Department would have to decide independently whether 
there were grounds for bringing action under the Clayton Act. 
Governor Mitchell noted that it was not known what the Depart-
ment of Justice might do. Neither was it known what the Board would 
do if the full facts were developed. After several years the Board 
might conceivably conclude that a strong case existed under the Clayton 
Act, whereas there might be less ground for bringing a proceeding at 
this time. In other words, the Board could give no guarantee that it 
would not start a Clayton Act proceeding at some future date. 
At Chairman Martin's suggestion, it was understood that Gover-
n
°r Robertson would discuss the matter with Chairman Randall in the 
light of the comments that had been made. 
Application of BT New York Corporation. 
There had been distrib-
uted drafts of a proposed order and statement reflecting the Board's 
a c
t i o n on April 11, 1967, denying the application of BT New York Cor-
poration, Suffern, New York, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the 
v
°ting shares of Liberty National Bank and Trust Company, Buffalo, New 
York. 

1583 
4/25/67 
-12-
Governor Mitchell suggested that the statement be revised to 
put more emphasis on the degree of banking concentration in the Buffalo 
metropolitan area, which he considered a more significant market in 
this case than the Ninth Banking District. Other members of the Board 
agreed. 
Governor Mitchell also suggested that the statement might be 
strengthened at certain points by using language cast in a positive 
vein in lieu of rebutting contentions made by the applicant. 
It was agreed to defer action on the issuance of the order and 
statement to permit redrafting in the light of these comments. 
Application of Geneva Shareholders (Items 1 and 2). There had 
been distributed drafts of a proposed order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on April 12, 1967, of the application of Geneva 
Shareholders, Inc., Warsaw, New York, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of shares of Wyoming County Bank and Trust 
Company, also of Warsaw. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized: copies 
a r e
 attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Application of Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company. 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated April 19, 1967, and other pertinent papers relative to the appli-
C a
tion of Manufacturers and Traders Trust Company, Buffalo, New York, 
to merge The Bank of Perry, Perry, New York. 

1584 
4/25/67 
-13-
The Division of Examinations recommended that the application 
be approved because the Perry trade area would be provided with a con-
venient alternative source for a number of banking facilities that were 
presently available only through the branch of a large Rochester bank. 
It was felt that the transaction would not have significant adverse 
competitive effects. The recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York and the Banking Markets Section were also favorable, and 
the application had been approved by the New York Superintendent of 
Banks. The Department of Justice expressed the view that no competitive 
issues would appear to be raised by the proposed merger, either in the 
City of Buffalo or in Wyoming County, although further merger activity 
m the county involving large Buffalo banks conceivably might be 
stimulated. 
In a memorandum distributed under date of April 21, 1967, 
Messrs. Shay and Via recommended that the application be denied, prin-
cipally because of the importance that they felt should be attached to 
the heavy concentration of banking resources in the Ninth Banking 
district of New York. Although the New York State Superintendent, in 
a
Pproving the merger, had cited problems involving the asset structure, 
C a
Pital, and lending procedures of the Perry bank, Messrs. Shay and Via 
did not find evidence in the record that the merger was warranted 
because of banking factor considerations. Neither did they believe it 
bad been established that the merger would benefit the convenience and 

±565 
4/25/67 
-14-
needs of the area served by the Perry bank. They suggested that 
approval of the merger would be contrary to the purpose of the Bank 
Merger Act and that it would set an unfortunate precedent. 
After discussion of the application by Mr. Egertson and Mr. 
Shay, the members of the Board expressed their views. 
Governor Shepardson said he thought Messrs. Shay and Via had 
raised a point of some significance. 
If it were not for the fact that 
the Justice Department had taken the position it did, he might have 
had more question about approval of the application. 
However, there 
appeared to be little present or potential competition between the two 
hanks, and the proposed merger would not add significantly to the con-
centration of banking resources in the Ninth District. 
Accordingly, 
he would approve the application. 
Governor Mitchell said that he would approve for the reasons 
Siven by the Division of Examinations. He did not feel that the Ninth 
Banking District was a market area in any sense, and the heaviest degree 
o f
 banking concentration was in the Buffalo metropolitan area. 
Governor Maisel also expressed the opinion that separate bank-
I r i
g markets were involved. 
Governor Brimmer said he would approve for the reasons cited 
ky the Division of Examinations and by Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 
thought the merger would result in some improvement, in terms of 
convenience and needs, in the area served by the Perry bank. 
The sub-
s t
antially larger loan limit should be helpful. 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-15-
Governor Robertson stated that he shared the views of Messrs. 
Shay and Via. Approval of the application would represent another 
step, in his view unwarranted, toward further concentration of banking 
resources in an area where the degree of concentration was already 
heavy. 
Chairman Martin said he would approve for the reasons given 
by the Division of Examinations. 
Accordingly, the application was approved, Governor Robertson 
dissenting, with the understanding that an order and statement would 
he drafted for the Board's consideration and that a dissenting state-
ment also would be prepared. 
Application of Huntington Bancshares. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated April 19, 
]
-967, and other pertinent papers with regard to the application of 
Huntington Bancshares Incorporated, Columbus, Ohio, for approval of 
a c
t i o n to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
per cent or more of the shares of The Washington Savings Bank, 
Washington Court House, Ohio. 
(The applicant already owned a majority 
°f the shares of The Huntington National Bank of Columbus, Columbus, 
hio.) 
The recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
the Division of Examinations, and the Banking Markets Section were all 
favorable. 

1587 
4/25/67 
-16-
In discussion of the application, reference was made, among 
other things, to a letter of objection that had been received from an 
attorney representing a group that had purchased two other banks in 
the Washington Court House area and subsequently merged them. 
This 
group also had made an offer for Washington Savings Bank. 
It was noted 
b
y the Board's staff that acquisition of the bank by this group would 
result in elimination of existing competition between Washington Sav-
ln
§s Bank and the bank already owned by the group. 
The application of Huntington Bancshares was approved unani-
mously, with the understanding that an order and statement would be 
drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Application of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation. 
There 
had been distributed a memorandum from the Division of Examinations 
dated April 19, 1967, and other pertinent papers relating to the appli-
cation of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
o r
 approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the common 
shares to be issued by Mequon National Bank, Mequon, Wisconsin, a pro-
Posed new bank. The recommendations of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
G
hicago, the Division of Examinations, and the Banking Markets Section 
W e r e
 all favorable. 
After comments on the application by Mr. Lyon, the application 
W a S
 improved unanimously, with the understanding that an order and 
statement would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 

1561. 
4/25/67 
-17-
Governor Maisel commented, in voting, that he considered this 
case closer than the New York State case acted upon by the Board earlier 
during today's meeting. Here, there was a substantial question of con-
centration. However, the convenience and needs factor apparently was 
sufficiently important to justify overriding the concentration factor. 
Members of the staff who had been concerned specifically with 
the foregoing merger and holding company applications withdrew at this 
point. 
Indebtedness reports. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from the Division of Examinations dated April 12, 1967, referring to 
the Board's letter to the Federal Reserve Banks of February 10, 1964 
(FRLS 9054), in which the view was expressed that all Reserve Bank 
officers and employees "occupying responsible positions" should submit 
Periodic reports on their financial affairs and outside activities. 
Over the years the Reserve Banks generally had regarded as security-
sensitive the positions of employees working in areas where money and 
other valuables were exposed. However, a recent inquiry indicated that 
the coverage at the Reserve Banks varied, with a few Banks obtaining 
reports from all employees. 
Under a new policy of the Boston Reserve Bank, similar to one 
Previously instituted at New York, employees in positions below Grade 10 
the cash and securities function would not be requested to submit 
r e
Ports. 
The Boston Bank noted that such a requirement raised the 

1569 
4/25/67 
-18-
question of invasion of privacy, that it had been singled out by union 
organizers as an item of employee grievance, and that its application 
to rank-and-file positions had doubtful effectiveness. 
The Division 
of Examinations tended to sympathize with the approach taken by the 
Boston Bank but requested the Board's guidance. 
In reply to a question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Solomon said 
there had been very few cases involving defalcations by Reserve Bank 
employees. According to his recollection, the few cases that had 
occurred involved principally employees in the lower salary brackets. 
Employees in the upper brackets, he pointed out, were not usually in a 
Position to misappropriate Reserve Bank funds. 
Governor Brimmer commented that in any event the greatest 
exposure apparently was in the area in which it was proposed to relax 
the controls. He indicated that he had reservations about the proposal. 
Mr. Solomon referred to the fact that a majority of the General 
Auditors of the Reserve Banks had indicated recently that in their 
°Pinion the indebtedness information was of doubtful value from the 
s
tandpoint of security. They felt that the cases where there had been 
disappropriation of funds would have occurred whether indebtedness 
reports were obtained or not. 
Governor Mitchell suggested that the Auditors might be asked 
t o
 examine the current rules relating to submission of indebtedness 
r e
ports and submit in writing to the Board a judgment as to their 
adequacy. 

1570 
4/25/67 
-19-
Governor Maisel noted that some Reserve Banks had gone far 
beyond the scope of persons handling money and other valuables in 
requiring indebtedness reports. 
Mr. Smith commented that in the view of many of the General 
Auditors the lower-level employees required to submit such reports 
might not have the same sense of responsibility as others. 
Therefore, 
the reports submitted might be inaccurate, particularly when the inclu-
sion of some item of indebtedness could raise a question. On the other 
hand, it was admittedly difficult to appraise the extent to which the 
requirement for reports might have an inhibiting effect on employees. 
The Reserve Banks, Mr. Smith said, also had some concern about 
outside activities of employees and had generally taken steps to pre-
clude certain types of outside employment, particularly on the part of 
those employees working in areas where money and other valuables were 
exposed. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that the question seemed of 
enough importance to warrant a general System policy. He proposed 
requesting the President of the Boston Bank to defer the curtailment 
°f reports contemplated at that Bank and asking the Presidents' Confer-
ence to develop a recommendation on an appropriate policy for applica-
tion at the Reserve Banks generally. 
It was agreed that the procedure suggested by Governor Robertson 
w
°uld be followed. 

1571 
4/25/67 
-20-
Retention of consultant. Upon staff recommendation, concurred 
in by Governor Robertson, Charles H. Gushee, President of the Financial 
Publishing Company, Boston, Massachusetts, was appointed as a consul-
tant, effective until December 31, 1967, on a temporary contractual 
basis with compensation at the rate of $75 per day for each day worked 
and transportation expenses and per diem in accordance with the Board's 
travel regulations. 
It was understood that the services of Mr. Gushee 
would be used in connection with certain technical questions that would 
arise in the administration of truth-in-lending legislation. 
Application of Virgin Islands National Bank. There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated April 17, 1967, from Messrs. Dahl, 
Egertson, and Smith (Research) presenting information obtained during 
a
 visit to San Juan, Puerto Rico, April 9-12, 1967, bearing upon the 
application of Virgin Islands National Bank, Charlotte Amalie, St. 
Thomas, Virgin Islands, to establish a branch in the Hato Rey section 
San Juan. This visit had been made pursuant to the understanding 
at the meeting of the Board on March 21, 1967. 
The view expressed in the memorandum was that while the pro-
Posed branch would be viable, the banking needs of San Juan appeared 
t o
 be fairly well met by existing institutions. 
The fundamental ques-
tion with regard to the application continued to be the weight that 
s
hould be attached to Puerto Rican official and private desires to 
r e
tain indigenous control of the Puerto Rican banking system. 
The 

1572 
4/25/67 
-21-
authorities believed that if the proposed branch should be approved it 
would be difficult to keep out other mainland banks with a potential 
for a much larger competitive impact. It was felt by Messrs. Dahl, 
Egertson, and Smith that in the absence of overriding circumstances 
the views of the Puerto Rican authorities should be respected as a 
matter of policy, and that the Board would be justified in denying the 
current application. 
There had also been distributed a letter dated April 18, 1967, 
f r
o m the President of the Puerto Rico Bankers Association reaffirming 
"Opposition to the branch application. 
After comments by Mr. Dahl summarizing the findings of the 
staff group, Mr. Smith referred to views that had been expressed to 
t h
e group by representatives of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tor*, including the view that if the current application were approved 
l t
 might be difficult to dissuade Puerto Rican banks from seeking to 
enter the Virgin Islands, where the Corporation believed that an over-
ranked situation may have already developed. 
Governor Shepardson noted that the staff memorandum showed that 
a n
ewly-organized mutual savings bank had been authorized in Puerto 
R
i c 0 . 
Thus, it did not appear that an effort was being made by the 
local authorities to freeze the existing banking situation. 
Governor Mitchell suggested the possibility of advising the 
a
Pplicant in terms that the Board saw no reason why it should not have 

1573 
4/25/67 
_22-
a branch in Puerto Rico but that the Board would not be willing to 
approve the branch unless the applicant obtained the consent of the 
local authorities. 
In other words, the Board's position would be one 
of saying that it did not object to another bank entering Puerto Rico 
and that the failure to grant approval recognized the position of the 
local authorities. 
Mr. Shay commented that apparently the local authorities were 
n o t
 taking the position that they could keep a bank out of Puerto Rico 
a situation of the kind now before the Board. He felt an argument 
could be made that the local authorities could assume such authority, 
b u
t the question was debatable. 
Governor Maisel suggested writing to the applicant in terms 
that the Board as a matter of policy had determined that in the absence 
of overriding considerations it would not overrule the banking author-
ities of Puerto Rico, and that in this instance the factors weighing 
toward approval were not strong enough to overrule the wishes of the 
I o c
a l authorities. 
Governor Brimmer inquired whether the Board could properly 
y i
®ld its responsibilities under the Federal Reserve Act, and Mr. Shay 
a
§reed that the responsibility rested upon the Board to make a decision. 
his judgment, it would be sound legally for the Board to take into 
a c
count the views of the local authorities, among other factors, and 
l u
 light of all of the factors involved to approve or deny the applica-
On the other hand, he questioned saying simply that the Board 

1574 
4/25/67 
-23-
saw nothing wrong with the application but was unwilling to overrule 
the views of the local authorities. 
Governor Mitchell commented that, whatever language was used, 
he continued to feel that the Board might well indicate that it was not 
willing to admit the applicant bank to Puerto Rico in the face of 
strong opposition of the local authorities. He pointed out that the 
Puerto Rican situation was unique and that the same question could not 
occur within the States of the United States. What he had in mind was, 
l r i
 a sense, applying the same rule to the Puerto Rican situation as in 
the case of the respective States. 
Mr. Shay questioned the propriety of a procedure that might 
subj ect the Puerto Rican authorities to pressure when they apparently 
were proceeding on the assumption that the final authority rested in 
the Board. 
Mr. Dahl said he had tried to deal with that question in discus-
sion with the Secretary of the Treasury and the latter
f
s legal counsel, 
^hile he did not obtain any definitive view, it appeared to be their 
thinking that the final authority did rest in the Board, although they 
Would be glad to see the Board, as a matter of policy, give weight to 
the views of the local authorities. 
Governor Maisel reiterated that he would consider it appropriate 
to say that as a matter of policy the Board did give considerable weight 
t° the recommendation of the local authorities in a matter of this kind 

1575 
4/25/67 
-24-
and that in this particular case, given all of the factors involved, 
it gave such weight to the adverse views of the local authorities that 
it was not willing to approve the establishment of the branch. 
After further discussion along these lines, Chairman Martin 
said it seemed to him the question came down to what weight should be 
given to the views of the local authorities in a matter of this kind. 
In his opinion the decision of the Board should be to turn down the 
applicat ion. While the views of the local authorities were one of the 
major factors involved, the Board's decision should be clearly its own. 
Governor Maisel suggested the possibility of turning down the 
application but advising the applicant bank that the Board would be 
willing to reconsider its action if the local opposition should be 
removed. Chairman Martin remarked that that could be implied. He ques-
tioned, however, whether the Board should so state explicitly. 
Governor Brimmer stated at this point that he would vote to 
approve the application. 
He was troubled by the letter from the Presi-
dent of the Puerto Rico Bankers Association, for he felt it constituted 
a
 further indication of the desire of local officials and private 
bankers to freeze out mainland banks. 
If Puerto Rico were in fact a 
foreign country, that would put the matter in different perspective. 
However, Puerto Rico was in a position where it could take advantage 
°f many favorable aspects of being associated with the United States. 
Therefore, it should be reminded that this association carried obliga-
tions . 

1576 
4/25/67 
-25-
Governor Shepardson said he would consider it proper to turn 
down the application, with recognition that the adverse attitude of 
the Puerto Rican Government had been given a great deal of weight in 
reaching the decision. 
Governor Mitchell commented that on the straight issue of 
approval or denial, he would approve. However, he would like to see 
the language of the letter to be written to the applicant bank, for 
that might have a bearing on his final vote. 
Governor Robertson indicated that he would deny the application, 
with much weight attached to the views of the local authorities. 
Chairman Martin said he also would vote to deny, having in 
mind particularly the unique status of Puerto Rico and the evolving 
conditions in the Commonwealth. 
Accordingly, it was decided, with Governor Brimmer dissenting 
and Governor Mitchell tentatively dissenting, to deny the application, 
but with the understanding that a draft of letter to be sent to Virgin 
Islands National Bank would be brought back to the Board for review. 
Request for technical assistance. After consideration of a 
memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated April 25, 
1967, the Board authorized its staff to comply with a request from the 
International Monetary Fund for assistance in locating an experienced 
bank examiner to fill the newly-created post of Inspector of Banks in 
Singapore. 

±565 
4/25/67 
-26-
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) approving the appointment of David D. Peterson as assis-
tant examiner. 
Memoranda from the Division of International Finance dated April 13 
and April 24, 1967, requesting authorization to contract with Professor 
Will iam H. Branson of Princeton University to prepare an initial approx-
imation of an econometric model of the balance of payments of the United 
States, on both capital and current account, with the understanding that 
Profess or Branson would be under contract to the Board for approximately 
two months and that the total cost of the project would be $3,850, includ-
ing compensation to Professor Branson. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Charles Lamar Camp as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Roger N. Craine as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Edward Lowry as Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,867, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 

1578 
Item No. 1 
4/25/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
GENEVA SHAREHOLDERS, INC,, 
Warsaw, New York, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
°f the voting shares of Wyoming County 
Bank and Trust Company, Warsaw, New York. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANIC HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has' come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
Action 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)), 
section 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
a n
 application by Geneva Shareholders, Inc., Warsaw, New York, for the 
board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant would become a bank 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the 
°
ut
standing voting shares of Wyoming County Bank and Trust Company, 
Warsaw, New York. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of 
th 
e
 application was given to, and views and recommendation requested of, 
th 
G
 Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York. The Superintendent 

1579 
- 2 -
raade no recommendation on the application. However, as discussed in the 
Statement accompanying this Order, the New York State Banking Board 
a
dvised this Board that, following a favorable recommendation of the 
Superintendent, the Banking Board had approved an application filed by 
^neva Shareholders, Inc., pursuant to the New York Banking Law involving 
same proposal submitted to this Board. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
P e
deral Register on November 30, 1966 (31 Federal Register 15040), which 
Provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
H e w s with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the application 
forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for 
such comments and views has expired and all those received have been 
c
°nsidered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
S t a
tement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
°
r
 (b) later than three months after the date of the Order. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 25th day of April, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin, and 
Governors Robertson, Shepardson, Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
^ E a l ) 

1580 
Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
4/25/67 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION OF 
GENEVA SHAREHOLDERS, INC., WARSAW, NEW YORK, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Geneva Shareholders, Inc., Warsaw, New York ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956 ("the Act"), an application for prior 
a
Pproval of action to become a bank holding company through the acqui-
sition of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Wyoming 
County Bank arid Trust Company, Warsaw, New York ("Wyoming Bank"). Appli-
cant is a majority-owned subsidiary of Financial Institutions, Inc., 
Warsaw ("Financial"), a registered bank holding company, which is presently 
e
 owner of 94 per cent of the voting stock of Wyoming Bank, the subject 
this application. Financial also owns more than 25 per cent of the 
V o t
i n g stock of Pavilion State Bank, Pavilion, New York. Upon consumma-
tl 
°
n
 of Applicant's proposal Financial would continue to have the status 
a
 bank holding company under the Act through its direct and indirect 
°
w
^rshi P of 
more than 25 per cent of the stock of more than two banks. 
A p
Plicant presently owns 97 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of 
Th 
6
 National Bank of Geneva, Geneva, New York. Its acquisition of Wyoming 

1581 
-2-
Sank would thus constitute it a bank holding company under the Act. 
In 
e
ffect, therefore, the application contemplates a corporate reorganization 
Pursuant to which direct majority ownership of Wyoming Bank would be trans-
ferred from Financial to its subsidiary, Applicant. 
The record reflects that Applicant has authorized and outstanding 
a single class of common stock, while Financial has, in addition to 
c
°mmon stock, a substantial amount of preferred stock outstanding. 
Appli-
C a
*t has stated, and the Superintendent of Banks of the State of New York 
a
 written recommendation on Applicant's proposal, hereafter discussed, 
concluded, that existing rights of Financial's preferred stockholders 
not be affected by the reorganization contemplated by this proposal. 
Views and recommendation of the supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application 
d s
 given to, and views and recommendation requested of, the Superintendent 
o f
 Banks of the State of New York. Applicant had filed with the New York 
S t
ate Banking Board, pursuant to Article III-A of the New York Banking Law, 
a
Pplication for approval involving the same proposal. The Superintendent, 
k ^ g required by State law to make a recommendation to the Banking Board 
°
n fc
hat application, recommended favorably, and the application was approved 
the Banking Board. A copy of the Superintendent's favorable written 
tec 
E m e n d a t i o n 
was transmitted to this Board. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides that 
the 
Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a monopoly, 
w
°uld be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize 

1582 
-3-
°r to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the 
United States. Nor may the Board approve any other proposed acquisition, 
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to l e ssen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other 
Gamier would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the 
ari
ticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed 
the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each case the 
B
oard is required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effects of proposed transaction^ - Inasmuch as the 
Proposed acquisition involves, essentially, a reorganization of units 
^ithi n a holding company system, and reflects neither expansion of that 
^stem nor any significant change in the character of the system's banking 
the Board concludes that the proposed acquisition would not 
e
r existing banking competition, nor affect potential competition. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
A p
P U c a n t was organized in 1932, and at that time acquired The National 
a r i
^ of Geneva, Both organizations have sound operating records and 
n a
ncial conditions. Wyoming Bank, opened in 1913, is considered to be 
^ancialiy sound and well operated. Applicant's management, essentially 
116
 same as the managements of The National Bank of Geneva and Wyoming 
Bank 4 
> is considered to be capable and experienced. The prospects of 

1583 
-4-
Applicant, dependent upon those of the banks involved, are deemed 
favorable. Wyoming Bank's prospects are considered favorable either as 
a
 subsidiary of Financial or of Applicant. Considerations relating to 
the banking factors are, therefore, viewed as consistent with approval 
the application. 
Convenience and needs of the areas involved. - For the reasons 
Siven above relating to the Board's conclusions regarding the absence of 
a n y
 material competitive impact upon this proposal, the Board concludes 
that the convenience, needs, and welfare of the communities and areas 
Served by the banks that would constitute Applicant's system would not be 
Materially affected. Approval of this application would not change 
tK 
e
 ability of either The National Bank of Geneva or Wyoming Bank to serve 
Public in their respective areas. 
the 
Conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant facts contained 
record, and in the light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
of t, 
n e
 Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
consistent with the public interest and that the application should be 
P r o v e d 
25, 1967. 

1584 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/25/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 25, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of April 18, 1967, the Board approves the 
appointment of David D. Peterson as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
