MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 11, 1970 
(FAC) 

« 
t-« 
A meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
with the Federal Advisory Council was held in the Board Room of the 
Federal Reserve Building in Washington, D.C., at 10:30 a.m. on Friday, 
September 11, 1970. 
OV«ii\. 
. • . •••_}_ 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
•UCi '' 
... 
• i. . 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, 
Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Wheeler, Meyer, Brown, Mayer, Craft, 
Morgan, Nason, Conn, and Gray, Members 
of the Federal Advisory Council from the 
First, Second, Third, Fourth, Sixth, 
Eighth, Ninth, Tenth, and Eleventh 
Federal Reserve Districts, respectively 
Mr. Prochnow, Secretary of the Council 
Mr. Korsvik, Assistant Secretary of the 
Council 
Messrs. Graham and Clausen, members of the Council from the 
Seventh and Twelfth Federal Reserve Districts, respectively, were unable 
to be present, and in their absence the Seventh District was represented 
w 
Kenneth V. Zwiener, Chairman of the Board, Harris Trust and Savings 
Bank, Chicago, Illinois, and the Twelfth District by Ransom M. Cook, 
Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, San Francisco, California. 
V) ! 
, 
1. Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. 
How does the Council appraise the outlook for 
general economic activity, prices and costs, 
and resource use over the fall and winter months? 
How would this outlook be affected if there is an 
auto strike? 

9/11/70 
-2-
The Council believes that the recovery in general economic 
activity now under way in most districts will continue slowly through 
the fall and winter months. Moreover, the Council anticipates that 
the upward pressure on prices will ease only slowly as productivity 
gains partially offset the continued rise in wages, thus moderating 
overall costs. 
Because of the relatively moderate pace of business, 
resource use over the fall and winter months will be considerably 
below capacity. 
The effect of an automobile strike would depend on its breadth 
and duration. 
Because of the general fragility of the recovery, it 
probably should be assumed that a strike would have a more pronounced 
depressing effect on economic activity this fall than similar strikes 
have had on other occasions. 
In response to inquiry whether the Council's statement reflected 
a general view that recovery in economic activity was actually under 
way, Council members used expressions such as "recovery, however slight," 
"the decline was probably stopping," and "in the process of bottoming 
out." it was suggested that the question whether recovery was as yet 
a reality was related to the question whether it was believed that 
inflation had been brought under control, and comments on that point 
reflected a view that there was some lessening in the rate of inflation. 
Mr. Mayer reported that there appeared to be little hope of 
avoiding a strike in the automobile industry, although it was uncertain 
whether a strike would affect both Ford and General Motors or only one 
°f them. 
References to a "partial strike" meant that only the assembly 
Plants would be closed, and not the plants that made components. 
It 
was discouraging that both Ford and General Motors had priced their new 
c ars as high as they had, above the principal competitors among foreign 

9/11/70 
-3-
models, yet it was understood that their margin of profit on the basic 
car was expected to be minimal. 
The money issue was of special interest to the younger auto 
workers, Mr. Mayer continued, whereas the attention of the older workers 
focused more on issues such as seniority and pensions. 
One demand being 
made was for retirement at $500 a month after 30 years' service, but 
such an agreement would be so costly that he believed any automobile 
manufacturer would submit to a strike rather than accede to it. 
B. How do Council members assess the current state 
of inflationary expectations, consumer attitudes 
towards spending and saving, and overall business 
confidence? 
To what extent are current expecta-
tions and attitudes being influenced by fiscal or 
monetary policy developments? 
The slowdown in economic activity, a less intense demand for 
goods and services, the rise in unemployment, and the decline in corpo-
rate profits have combined to bring about a modest easing of inflationary 
expectations. 
In addition, recent developments in the commercial paper 
market following the Penn-Central bankruptcy have lessened the optimism 
of the business and investment community. 
Consumers continue to evidence concern and uncertainty over the 
future, and this influences their attitudes towards spending and savings. 
The state of business and particularly the increasing unemployment, 
together 
with the continued erosion in purchasing power as a result of 
higher prices and local taxes, are major factors contributing to the 
condition. 
However, there is 
some concern that inflationary expectations, 
which only recently have begun to subside, will be revived as monetary 
Policy eases and the Federal budget deficit increases. 
After an exchange of views regarding reasons for the lack of 
strength in the business outlook, Chairman Burns expressed the view 

2J554 
9/11/70 
-4-
that capital expenditures were unlikely to be revised upward to any 
significant extent within the next three to nine months. 
Council 
members agreed, and they also indicated that no inventory buildup 
appeared to be in sight. 
President Nason said he found himself more optimistic than most 
businessmen in the belief that a measure of control over inflationary 
pressures had been achieved and that the economic decline might have 
bottomed out. Businessmen were impatient and frustrated and seemed 
somewhat unwilling to concede that any progress had been made in com-
bating inflation. 
Mr. Gray commented that at a recent meeting in Houston attended 
by several hundred bankers, about 75 to 80 per cent had responded affir-
matively to a question whether they felt that inflation would continue 
at a rate above 4 per cent for the remainder of the year and into 1971. 
Mr. Mayer observed that the high cost of money was causing 
businessmen to consider carefully whether a proposed capital expendi-
ture would be profitable. 
Some capital expenditures, of course, 
represented investment in labor-saving devices in an effort to offset 
rising wage costs. 
As a point bearing upon appraisal of inflationary expectations, 
Governor Brimmer inquired about attitudes toward different kinds of 
financial assets, for example the attitude of investment officers toward 
purchasing bonds. 

9/11/70 
-6-
C. In the Council's view, how extensive are current 
business efforts to cut costs? Does the Council 
believe that there is a substantial downward 
adjustment in process with regard to capital 
spending? If so, what factors seem to account 
for the change in plans? 
There is increasing evidence that current business efforts to 
cut costs are widespread. 
It is also the Council's belief that a sub-
stantial downward adjustment in capital spending is under way as a 
result of liquidity problems, inadequate earnings, slackening demand, 
and the continued high cost of financing. 
It is probable that the full 
impact of current reductions in capital spending programs will not be 
fully evident until well into 1971. 
There was no significant further discussion of this topic, 
which had been touched upon to some degree in the preceding discussion. 
•• '. ia -j ' 
' 1 Z .. ; \ I -.51 
i. ' I ; : . ' .. ° • ><; i * • . • i, ; : . , : •,,, . i • -
D. Do Council members anticipate a marked strength-
ening in residential building activity in their 
respective regions? To what extent are current 
interest rates, credit terms, and construction 
costs likely to constrain building activity? 
With the exception of the Second and Twelfth Districts, the 
members of the Council expect continued improvement in residential 
building activity, primarily multi-family units and mobile homes, in 
the months ahead. Land and construction costs as well as credit terms 
and interest rates are all factors constraining building activity. 
Mr. Meyer cited high costs, both for mortgage money and for 
labor, as a principal constraining factor in the Second District. 
Also, 
ililr.K ,••>: credit 
csr,i.j 
. 
a number of suburban areas already had been built up rapidly. 
The 
efforts of the Government to pump money into the housing industry seemed 
to be beginning to bear fruit in other parts of the country, but the 
results were not evident in the Second District. 
The discussion also brought out that although mortgage rates 
for commercial and multi-family residential projects had gone down by 

* *r" r-f* 
9/11/70 
- 7 -
as much as one per cent, the rates were relatively still high. 
Also, 
requirements that lenders receive an equity interest or that an escala-
tion clause be included were typical. The demand for long-term financing 
may have receded a little, but it was still strong. 
2. Financial developments. 
A. How do Council members appraise the current and 
prospective state of business loan demand? 
What 
factors seem to be most important in the current 
borrowing trend--liquidity needs, financing of 
capital outlays, inventory and accounts receiv-
able financing, etc? 
Business loan demand continues strong in most Districts. 
Some 
members of the Council anticipate a slight lessening of demand in the 
months ahead, after allowing for seasonal factors. Lower earnings, 
rising costs, the need to carry a larger volume of receivables, the 
illiquidity of some corporations which have not yet funded their short-
term debt, and general working capital needs are probably the most 
important factors undergirding present and prospective business loan 
demand. 
B. Does the Council believe that creditors have 
become more selective in evaluating and choosing 
risks? To what extent is any tightening up in 
credit standards reflected in bank lending policies? 
A more selective attitude on the part of bank and other creditors 
has become apparent over the past several months. The Penn-Central 
development resulted in further selective evaluations and in the tight-
ening of credit standards. 
Mr. Meyer stated that his bank's loans had remained fairly level 
except for the bulge at the time of the Penn-Central crisis, but that 
commitments under lines of credit had increased substantially since the 
first of the year. The bank had built up its portfolio of short-term 
Governments and municipals, but the potential demand for credit was 

9/11/70 
-8-
enormous. 
If the outstanding lines of credit should be called upon 
substantially, it would be necessary to liquidate some of the securities 
portfolio. 
Discussion of selectivity with respect to loans included an 
observation by Mr. Zwiener that a Seventh District survey of a cross-
section of large banks contained recurrent reports that banks were 
still allocating loans. 
Mr. Conn commented that many loan applicants were in an illiquid 
position, partly through having to carry receivables longer, and needed 
credit just to keep their heads above water rather than for expansion. 
Banks were screening such requests carefully because, along with the 
decline in the borrower's liquidity and profits, his ability to repay 
probably had been affected. 
In further discussion, the comment was made that risk ventures 
at present were out of the window so far as bank financing was concerned. 
On the part of customers, a sharp distinction apparently was being drawn 
between what would be desirable and what was absolutely essential. 
Many 
planned projects were being abandoned or pared down and, whereas a few 
years ago a project might be undertaken even if a pay-out was not 
expected for seven or eight years, now only those expected to be prof-
itable in two or three years were going forward. 
Of course, some 
projects having social implications, such as pollution control programs, 
were going forward because of the pressure of public opinion as well as 
the movement toward statutory requirements. 

2559 
9/11/70 
-9-
Another factor behind the level of loan demand was said to be 
the need of medium-sized businesses to obtain credit because the market 
was unfavorable for funding their obligations. 
Some industries, such 
as public utilities, had to float their issues whether the market was 
favorable or not, but the senior loan officer of one large bank estimated 
that if the market for long-term obligations became more attractive, fund-
ing by smaller companies would result in a drop of from $50 to $100 
million in the bank's loan volume. 
In any event, however, there was sufficient demand from top-name 
customers to absorb all the funds that banks cared to lend, and it was 
probable that many parties were not even applying for loans because they 
had been turned down earlier. 
In agricultural areas and small towns, 
however, the demand for credit was not so intense and appeared to be on 
the downtrend. 
Other comments suggested that the Penn Central crisis merely 
accelerated a selectivity trend that had already been under way. The 
deterioration in the commercial paper market had of course turned some 
issuers back to the banks. That wave seemed to be diminishing, although 
smaller companies were finding themselves blocked from the commercial 
paper market unless their paper was completely covered by bank lines. 
Even then, buyers were likely to choose the larger issuers notwithstand-
ing a rate differential. 

« % d 
9/11/70 
-10-
Inquiry was made whether banks had dismantled to any substantial 
extent the loan screening devices set up in the period of stringency 
* 
several years ago, and Council members replied in the negative. 
Mention was made of a report that one large bank had resumed 
the practice of sending its loan officers into the field to look for 
business. However, members of the Council indicated that they were not 
aware of such a development and said that their loan officers were still 
under tight rein. 
C. To what extent has the suspension of rate ceilings 
on 30 to 89-day CD's relieved bank concerns about 
their ability to attract funds as needed? How does 
the Council evaluate the effect of the consequent 
shortening in CD maturities on money management 
and investment practices of banks? More generally, 
how does the Council evaluate the recent upsurge in 
savings flows to banks and nonbank financial insti-
tutions? 
The recent suspension of rate ceilings on 30 to 89-day CD's--
a constructive and timely move by the Federal Reserve Board--partially 
relieved bank concern, particularly in the money centers, about the 
ability to attract funds as needed. Although the consequent shortening 
in CD maturities may have an eventual impact on money management and 
investment practices, most bankers are hopeful that there will be oppor-
tunities in the future for lengthening the maturity structure of their 
liabilities. The recent upsurge in consumer savings has flowed princi-
pally to smaller banks and nonbank institutions and probably reflects 
the continued concern of the consumer about the employment situation 
and economic conditions generally. 
President Nason said it was the general view of the Council that 
no significant reflow of savings to banks from nonbank institutions would 
occur. With respect to the recent Regulation Q action, he said some 
members believed that it would have been appropriate also to suspend the 

2561 
9/11/70 
-11-
rate ceilings on CD's of more than 89 days' maturity, although there 
was some difference of opinion regarding how much money would have been, 
or could be, attracted in the longer maturities. 
In response to a 
question, Mr. Nason affirmed that in any event banks would like to have 
the additional freedom to offer whatever rates the market required on 
longer maturities. 
In response to an inquiry by the Council regarding the logic 
behind the limitation of the relaxation to maturities from 30 to 89 
days, Chairman Burns indicated that it had appeared that the bulk of 
the large CD money was concentrated in that bracket, that there had 
been a desire to move only moderately, and that mixed views regarding 
the appropriate scope of the action had resulted in a compromise. 
President Nason emphasized that, while all of the Council members 
thought the action had been very helpful, some wondered if there was 
any real merit in not extending it to maturities of less than 30 days. 
Chairman Burns responded that at some time it would be useful to hear 
the views of the Council on that point, which involved a complex issue 
having to do with the definition of deposits and the payment of interest 
on demand deposits. 
D. What effect are the Board's recent changes in 
reserve requirements likely to have on bank 
interest in obtaining funds through commercial 
paper issuance? On seeking alternative sources 
of money market funds, such as Federal funds or 
Euro-dollars? 

9/11/70 
-12-
The Board's recent changes in reserve requirements on commercial 
paper are likely to lessen the interest of banks in obtaining funds 
through commercial paper issuance with maturities of less than thirty 
days. The reserve requirements on commercial paper are likely to per-
suade bankers to make greater use of CD's as well as Federal funds and 
Euro-dollars. The relative costs, however, will continue to determine, 
in large measure, the mix of alternative sources of funds. 
Mr. Cook summarized views expressed in a letter from Mr. Clausen, 
the Council member representing the Twelfth District, regarding the 
Board's action imposing a reserve requirement on funds obtained by 
member banks through the issuance of commercial paper by their affiliates. 
Mr. Clausen had observed that the action was discriminatory against banks 
as compared with corporate issuers of commercial paper. Moreover, since 
commercial paper issued by corporations was outside the control of the 
Federal Reserve, that would further reduce the credit base upon which 
monetary policy could exert leverage. He believed that consideration 
should be given to legislation that would increase the tools available 
to the Federal Reserve, and thus enhance the effectiveness of monetary 
Policy. He questioned whether the newly-imposed reserve requirement 
Would be effective, because banks would merely turn to CD's and other 
sources for the funds they had been deriving from commercial paper. 
Governor Maisel observed that, in the interest of broadening 
the credit base upon which monetary policy could exert leverage, the 
Board had on a number of occasions advocated that reserve requirements 
apply to all banks rather than just to members of the System. A ques-
tion related to the imposition of reserve requirements was the definition 

9/11/70 
-13-
of deposits, with its separation of time deposits, upon which interest 
could be paid, and demand deposits, upon which payment of interest was 
prohibited by statute. 
In recent months, questions had been raised 
recurrently concerning the payment of interest on demand deposits, and 
he inquired about the Council's views. 
The Council indicated that strong opposition to permitting 
payment of interest on demand deposits could be expected, especially 
from small banks; there seemed little likelihood that such legislation 
could be enacted, especially in light of the banking problems of the 
1920's. 
Chairman Burns invited the views of the Council on the question 
Mr. Clausen had raised. 
In one sense it was evident that the imposition 
of reserve requirements on funds obtained by banks from commercial paper 
was discriminatory, in that it did not affect nonbank issuers, yet the 
Board had no authority with respect to the latter. He asked whether 
there was essentially any difference between imposing reserve require-
ments on commercial paper funds and on funds obtained from CD's. 
In 
his own view, reserve requirements in general were troublesome; they 
discriminated against member banks in comparison with nonmembers and 
had been responsible, in part at least, for the slow erosion in System 
membership. 
President Nason recalled that last February the Council had 
expressed the view that the proposal to apply reserve requirements to 

2564 
9/11/70 
-14-
commercial paper was discriminatory and inequitable to banks and also 
to their customers. 
Banks would be less able to obtain funds from that 
source to lend to small borrowers, who had to rely on banks for credit, 
while large corporations would still be able to issue commercial paper 
to obtain needed funds. 
^ J i ' 
: ' 
. ' 
Mr. Gray expressed the view that the Board would not have been 
fulfilling its responsibilities if it had not imposed a reserve require-
ment on bank-related commercial paper. He believed the Council's position 
'' ' 1 - • 1 <- - 1 • 
1 • - 
i 
\ ' 
• 
• 
"•.•;< 
in February had been colored to some extent by a situation in which banks 
had no breathing room under Regulation Q. It seemed to him that the 
ceiling rates were really the pivotal point. 
t i ; • 
Further comments by members of the Council stressed the fact 
that Mr. Clausen's objections were directed toward unequal treatment of 
hanks vis-a-vis business corporations rather than reserve requirements 
against commercial paper funds vis-a-vis funds obtained from other 
sources. 
It was understood to be his position that the whole question 
°f commercial paper needed review—not just commercial paper issued by 
hank affiliates. 
He had suggested a requirement that all commercial 
paper be bank endorsed, which presumably would require legislation, but 
which would immediately bring all commercial paper under regulation. 
3. Balance of payments. 
A. What effect has the Voluntary Foreign Credit 
Restraint Program had on the ability and 
willingness of U.S. banks to finance U.S. 

9/11/70 
-15-
exports? 
From your experience, have U.S. 
exports been restrained by lack of financing 
either from U.S. banks or from the U.S. 
Government? 
It is difficult to cite specific instances where U.S. exports 
have been restrained by lack of financing either from U.S. banks or 
from the U.S. Government. However, the financing of U.S. exports has 
not been on as favorable terms as the government-subsidized financing 
in Japan, German, the U.K., and France. 
Mr. Zwiener commented that the hindrance to U.S. exports did 
not arise from the Foreign Credit Restraint Program, under which most 
banks had some leeway, but from the export subsidies provided by foreign 
governments. He cited examples of business that might have gone to 
U.S. exporters but was diverted to other countries on the basis of 
financing terms. 
Mr. Meyer commented that the length of the financing arrangement 
was an important consideration. 
He noted also that the Export-Import 
Sank was fully aware of the competitive disadvantage of American exports 
and was seeking ways to remedy it. Among other things, the Bank apparently 
believed that by conducting its financing operations outside the Federal 
budget it would be able to operate more flexibly. 
B. Given the greater availability of funds 
domestically, how do Council members 
appraise current attitudes among banks 
regarding the preservation of their 
reserve-free bases under the marginal 
reserve requirements of Regulation M? 
Uvilii>v"ad - •.<:.. would 
: 
• • 
Currently it is likely that banks will generally tend to preserve 
their reserve-free bases in the Euro-dollar market under the marginal 
reserve requirements of Regulation M. However, banks will be reluctant 

9/11/70 
-16-
to incur significant costs over a long period in order to maintain their 
reserve-free bases. 
There was no significant discussion of this topic. 
4. What are the Council's views regarding the impact 
on monetary policy and on commercial banking of 
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board's regulation 
providing fund transfer authority for payment of 
depositors' bills? 
The members of the Council and bankers generally would willingly 
accept the expansion of the functions of nonbank financial institutions 
provided those institutions were subject to the same regulations, 
restraints, and tax treatment as the banks. However, the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board's regulation expands the functions of savings and loan 
associations without imposing the requirements and restraints governing 
banks. To the extent that this action promotes the growth of nonbank 
financial institutions, it diminishes the relative size of commercial 
banks in the credit system and thus the base upon which monetary policy 
is effective. 
Moreover, this expansion certainly should not occur while 
the whole subject is under study by the Hunt Commission. 
Mr. Conn expressed the view that the new regulation represented 
Progress in the efforts that the savings and loan industry had been 
Pursuing for a number of years to compete with commercial banks. 
He 
had testified some years ago before the House Banking and Currency 
Committee during its consideration of the question of extending to 
savings and loan associations the privilege of making consumer loans, 
Which was one part of a package they sought. If the new power to make 
transfers from share accounts were the only aim, he doubted that the 
hanks would be greatly concerned. 
However, once this new function was 
established, he believed there would be renewed pressure to provide 
checking account services and further expansion of lending powers. 
If 

2567 
9/11/70 
-17-
those goals were achieved, the result would be a new class of institutions 
competitive with commercial banks but over which the Federal Reserve 
would have no control. Moreover, while seeking new powers the savings 
and loan industry had not been willing to accept the tax obligations and 
supervisory restrictions under which commercial banks operated. 
In 
Mr. Conn's view, every proposed expansion of the functions of savings 
and loan associations should be examined in the light of fair competition 
and the effect on monetary policy. He regarded it as an error to have 
allowed this new power to savings and loan associations at a time when 
the President's Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation was 
making an in-depth review. 
There ensued a discussion during which Council members suggested 
the possibility that the Board might make an effort to forestall imple-
mentation of the new regulation. 
However, it was brought out that the 
authority for the regulation had been granted by Congress in the Housing 
Act of 1968, despite representations by various organizations regarding 
fche implications; that although the authority was discretionary, it was 
hardly to be expected that the Home Loan Bank Board would not use it; 
that when the proposed regulation was published for comment in 1969 the 
Board of Governors had requested that interstaff conferences be held to 
e*plore the implications; and that intercession within three days of the 
effec tive date of the regulation might be inappropriate. 

2568 
9/11/70 
-18-
Discussion of the speed with which savings and loan associations 
were likely to avail themselves of the new powers included comments that 
some advertisements of the service had already appeared. A Board staff 
study prepared at the time the regulation was under consideration had 
concluded that implementation was likely to be slow but that eventually 
its impact could be significant. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that it should be assumed 
that the authority would be used. The obvious course to retain the 
competitive standing of commercial banks was to grant them authority 
to make transfers from savings accounts. A related question was the 
possibility of permitting corporations to have savings accounts. 
If 
such a privilege were granted, banks should have no difficulty in retain-
ing their corporate accounts, since corporations would find it useful 
to obtain from one institution the various services they needed. 
Chairman Burns observed that a major issue was the question of 
Payment of interest on demand deposits, which savings accounts presumably 
would become if they could be used for transfer payments. 
President Nason commented that since banks were in the business 
providing services connected with demand accounts, on which they 
Paid no interest, they would scarcely welcome a device through which 
their customers could obtain the same services through maintaining 
accounts upon which interest would be paid. He did not believe that 
the new privilege was going to be any great bonanza to savings and loan 
associations; what he opposed was its implications as an opening wedge. 

2 3 6 9 
9/11/70 
-19-
Inquiry was made whether it was felt, then, that the new 
regulation would have such a trivial effect that the Board need give 
no thought to making the powers of banks parallel. Mr. Mayer expressed 
the view that the development of the transfer payments practice should 
be monitored 
carefully. There were divergent views regarding its 
portent. If it became evident that banks would suffer unduly, consid-
eration could then be given to granting similar authority to the banks. 
An understanding was expressed that the credit union industry 
had the same kind of proposal in the planning stage, and it was noted 
the practice might spread also to savings banks. 
<> 
• .. t i* t. • 
, 
. 1 
. : • j 
Mr. Brown observed that in Philadelphia savings fund societies 
i..:.'! 
\ 
• 
. 
had made transfer payments for some time, in at least one case in con-
; i •• 
L \> 
siderable volume. Yet the banks had not experienced unduly adverse 
competitive effects. He did not believe that corporations had sought 
to open accounts with the savings fund societies. 
Chairman Burns suggested that the Home Loan Bank Board might be 
Encouraged to proceed deliberately in issuing materials interpreting 
the new regulation. 
The problem was a difficult one and the best 
thinking of the members of the Council would be helpful. He suggested 
that the members communicate their ideas to the Board before the next 
meeting. 
In the meantime, the Board would be monitoring developments, 
Perhaps through the Federal Reserve Banks and member banks. 
5. What are the Council's views on monetary and 
credit policy under current circumstances? 

2570 
9/11/70 
-20-
The Council believes that monetary and credit policy has been 
appropriate and responsive to the needs of the economy. The Board's 
response to critical developments in the financial and money markets 
last June was prompt and effective and contributed importantly to the 
prevention of a liquidity crisis and the consequent erosion of investor 
confidence. 
The real concern at present is that the Board will be under 
heavy pressure to adopt an even easier policy than it has been purusing 
recently. 
In response to a question whether the last sentence of the 
Council's statement reflected a view that the present stance of monetary 
Policy was one of ease, Council members indicated that it might have 
been more accurate to refer to monetary policy at present as "less 
restrictive" and to have expressed concern that the Board would be 
under heavy pressure to adopt an easier policy. 
In response to a question about the rapid build-up of CD's, 
Council members said that to a large extent the newly issued CD's had 
replaced commercial paper. 
Mr. Meyer expressed the view that one of the most important 
objectives should be to maintain the viability of the long-term bond 
market. 
It required a certain amount of ease, whether through open 
market operations or other action, to sustain the flow of money into 
long-term instruments. 
That was one key to restoration of the economy 
t o a more even keel. 
Inquiry was made whether banks now had all the money they wanted 
from CD's. 
Several Council members replied in the negative, but some 

or-^-t 
r -L 
9/11/70 
-21-
members noted that much would depend on the rates that banks were willing 
to pay after assessment of their positions and objectives. 
Mr. Meyer remarked that his bank's loan forecast indicated a 
large increase in the demand for money beginning in 1971. For a number 
of years, banks had been borrowing too much at short-term and lending 
too much at long-term. 
They had recently made efforts to correct that 
situation. 
However, if the forecast was correct, banks should make 
further efforts to put themselves in a position to meet the pressures 
that would be generated. The profits of money market banks fortunately 
had increased substantially in recent months, because they needed addi-
tional capital. 
Mr. Nason said it was disappointing that the larger banks were 
n°t getting a better share of the inflows of consumer savings, which 
were going largely to country banks, savings and loan associations, and 
mutual savings banks. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that when the Federal Reserve supplied 
substantial additional liquidity in 1968, the full impact was felt some 
time later. This suggested that if the Federal Reserve now took steps 
to put the banking system, and the economy, in a much more liquid 
Position, a degree of ease might be provided that could render monetary 
Policy impotent in the months ahead. 
Council members agreed that that was so, although one member 
noted that it should not be implied that under no circumstances should 

fA* 
9/11/70 
-22-
there be further easing, for example if the recession lengthened and 
unemployment increased. 
In response to a question, members of the 
Council indicated that they did not believe there was too great a 
degree of ease at the present time. In their opinion, the Board's 
response to the recent liquidity crisis had been about right. 
It was agreed that the next meeting of the Council would be 
held on November 5-6, 1970. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
