• f • 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 6, 1969 

1502 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 6, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Hubert White of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Maximum interest rate on V-loans. With respect to the so-called 
"V-loan" program under which loans to defense contractors by public 
or private financial institutions were guaranteed by the various defense 
procurement agencies under authority of the Defense Production Act of 

1503 
5/6/69 
-10-
1950 and the Board's Regulation V, Loan Guarantees for Defense 
Production, the Legal Division pointed out in a memorandum of 
April 22, 1969, that there had been indications that the maximum 
permissible rate of interest (raised from 6 per cent to 7-1/2 per 
cent in 1966) was proving insufficient under present conditions to 
compensate lending institutions adequately, with the result that it 
might sometimes be impossible to arrange V-loan financing. 
The Legal Division noted that under Executive Order 10480 
the Board was authorized to raise the maximum rate after consultation 
with the guaranteeing agencies, and such consultation was recommended. 
In order to obviate the necessity of periodic adjustments of the 
maximum rate in the future, the Division suggested that the Board 
might wish to consider prescribing a sliding maximum rate based on the 
Federal Reserve discount rate; perhaps, for example, a maximum rate 
3 per cent in excess of the discount rate. Such a proposal had been 
favored by several guaranteeing agencies and Federal Reserve Banks in 
1966, but it was discarded at that time because of a rather vague and 
informal objection registered by the Treasury Department. 
There was general agreement that it would be desirable to 
solicit the views of the guaranteeing agencies, and of the Reserve 
Banks and the Treasury, with regard to an adjustment of the maximum 
V-loan interest rate. In this connection, however, one Board member 
expressed the thought that the V-loan program might have about outlived 

1504 
5/6/69 
-10-
its usefulness, and he suggested that the letters to guaranteeing 
agencies include a question on that score. 
Some reservations were expressed with respect to prescribing 
a maximum rate based on the discount rate; as an alternative, use of 
the commercial bank prime rate as a base was suggested as a possibility. 
Several members of the Board were inclined to feel that on balance it 
would be better to continue to prescribe a fixed maximum rate, such 
as 9 per cent, and to adjust it appropriately from time to time, and 
they suggested that, at the least, the idea of prescribing a sliding 
maximum rate be deemphasized in soliciting views. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, unanimous approval 
was given to the sending of a letter to the guaranteeing agencies in 
a form reflecting the comments that had been made, with the under-
standing that similar letters would be sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks and to the Treasury. 
A copy of the letter sent to one of the guaranteeing agencies 
pursuant to the Board's action is attached as Item No. 1. 
Exercise of preemptive rights. In an interpretation issued 
in 1957 the Board had expressed the opinion that purchase of bank 
stock by a bank holding company through the exercise of rights 
required the Board's prior approval unless one of the exceptions set 
forth in section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act was applicable. 

5/6/69 
-4-
This meant that the requirement for prior approval was operative if, 
following a given rights exercise, the holding company would own or 
control more than 5 per cent of the voting shares of the bank involved 
and if it controlled less than 50 per cent prior to such acquisition. 
Counsel for The Citizens and Southern National Bank of Georgia 
and its wholly-owned subsidiary, The Citizens and Southern Holding 
Company, both registered bank holding companies of Savannah, Georgia, 
had now requested that the Board modify its interpretation so as to permit 
a bank holding company, without prior approval by the Board, to exercise 
preemptive rights to purchase stock of a bank if (1) the stock issue 
was responsive to a directive from the regulatory authority having 
supervisory responsibility over the issuing bank for an increase in 
its capital, (2) all of the stock offered to effect the capital increase 
was purchased, and (3) after the capital increase there would be no 
increase in the percentage of voting stock held, directly or indirectly, 
by the holding company. 
In a memorandum of April 28, 1969, the Legal Division expressed 
the opinion that the Board's 1957 ruling that the exercise of preemptive 
rights was an acquisition of stock, for purposes of section 3(a) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act, was sound and should continue in effect. 
The Division recommended, therefore, that Citizens and Southern be 
advised accordingly. 

1506 
5/6/69 
-10-
In discussion, some Board members expressed a degree of 
sympathy with the proposal that had been received, and there was 
a fairly extensive discussion of the possibility of granting a 
"blanket authority" or "general license" that would enable a bank 
holding company to exercise preemptive rights without specific prior 
Board approval under certain conditions. However, members of the 
legal staff who spoke on the matter, including Mr. Hackley, were 
unanimously of the view that it would be difficult to interpret the 
language of the statute in such a way as to justify such a procedure. 
It was recalled during the discussion that applications for permission 
to exercise preemptive rights had been relatively few in number, and the 
comment was made that in most cases the issues were likely to be so 
clearly drawn that it should be possible to process such applications 
quite expeditiously. 
A member of the Board then raised for consideration the 
possibility of delegating authority to the Federal Reserve Banks to 
act on such applications. Members of the legal staff agreed that it 
should be possible to work out a delegation if the Board so desired, 
although certain problems might be involved, but they noted that in any 
event procedures required by statute would have to be observed before 
action could be taken on applications at the Reserve Bank level. 
At the Chairman's suggestion, the Board then agreed to accept 
the Legal Division's recommendation, as it applied to the particular 

1507 
5/6/69 
-10-
situation that had occasioned the inquiry, and approved unanimously 
the sending of a reply to counsel for Citizens and Southern reflecting 
that recommendation, (copy attached as Item No. 2), with the understanding 
that the staff could give further consideration to possible alternatives 
in the light of today's discussion and come back to the Board if an 
alternative was developed that seemed satisfactory. 
Proposals for State legislation. The Bureau of the Budget had 
asked for the Board's comments on certain proposals submitted by the 
Small Business Administration for consideration by the Committee on 
Suggested State Legislation of the Council of State Governments. 
One proposal took the form of a general recommendation for review of 
State laws to determine what amendments might appropriately be made 
so that the individual States could more affirmatively encourage the 
formation and expansion of small business investment companies. The 
second proposal was designed to facilitate the establishment of State 
industrial development companies in such form as to enable them to 
assist small business concerns through the instrumentality of the 
loan programs embodied in sections 501 and 502 of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958. 
In a memorandum of April 28, 1969, the Legal Division analyzed 
the proposals, principally the provisions thereof relating to loans 
and investments by banks, and submitted a proposed reply to the Budget 
Bureau consisting of a letter and an attachment in which various points 
that had come up during staff consideration of the proposals were noted. 

1508 
5/6/69 
-10-
Discussion resulted in several questions being raised, 
principally by Governor Brimmer but also to some extent by other 
Board members, including Governor Sherrill, with regard to the nature 
and effect of the proposed legislation and the appropriateness of the 
proposed comments. There was a suggestion that the proposals be 
referred back to the staff, including the research staff, for additional 
study. However, Chairman Martin suggested that the matter probably 
was not of such a nature as to warrant the expenditure of a great deal 
of the Board's time. He proposed that the draft of reply, including 
the attachment, be reviewed somewhat further by the staff in the light 
of the points that had been mentioned today and that the reply then 
be sent. 
There was agreement with the procedure proposed by the Chairman 
and the sending of the reply after further staff review was authorized. 
A copy of the reply sent pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 3. 
Large-denomination currency. At its March 1969 meeting the 
Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks recommended that 
the Board again propose to the Treasury that the issuance of Federal 
Reserve notes in denominations of $500 and higher be discontinued. 
If this recommendation was adopted, the Reserve Banks would return 
for destruction all existing supplies of such notes, together with notes 
subsequently received from circulation in the normal course of business. 
It was contemplated that an announcement would be made in order to 

1 5 0 9 
5/6/69 
-10-
minimize any adverse public reaction and eliminate the need for 
explanatory statements by individual Reserve Banks. 
A memorandum of April 18, 1969, from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, in which the history of the question was 
developed, pointed out that the Board had decided in 1946 against any 
further printings of such notes, apparently on the grounds that such 
notes were not needed for hand-to-hand circulation, that large-
denomination currency lent itself to undesirable uses such as black 
market transactions and other illegal purposes, including evasion of 
income and other taxes, and that any legitimate need for such currency 
could be met by other means. In 1963 the Treasury had expressed the 
view that the large-denomination notes were being used almost exclusively 
by persons engaged in illegal activities, but a decision to discontinue 
the issuance of such notes was withheld when questions were raised with 
regard to how such a decision would be explained. As Reserve Bank 
supplies dwindled, the Presidents recommended, first in 1965 and again 
currently, that the matter be taken up with the Treasury. 
From among several possible alternatives, the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the Board advise 
the Treasury that, unless the Treasury had some objection, the Board 
proposed (a) to instruct the Reserve Banks to discontinue the issuance 
of $500, $1,000, $5,000, and $10,000 notes and to cause the destruction 
of all such notes now on hand along with those that might later come 

1510 
5/6/69 
-10-
into their possession, and (b) make an announcement that such action 
was being taken with the concurrence of the Treasury. 
Discussion of the matter revealed skepticism on the part of 
Board members that unavailability of the large-denomination currency 
would serve as a significant deterrent to activities such as had been 
cited by the Board in 1946, and it was noted by some members that such 
currency, to the extent it remained outstanding, represented interest-
free public debt. Question was raised as to whether other reasons could 
be given to justify discontinuing the issuance of such notes, and comments 
by the staff related principally to operating problems involved for the 
Reserve Banks, with some attendant cost. A possible compromise mentioned 
was to discontinue the issuance of the $5,000 and $10,000 notes but to 
resume printing the $500 and $1,000 notes to the extent required to 
meet demands from the public. 
The thought then was expressed that it would seem inadvisable 
to accept or reject the recommendation of the Conference of Presidents 
without first having ascertained the views of the Treasury, which had 
a definite interest in the matter. There developed to be general 
acceptance of this idea, with the result that it was agreed unanimously 
to advise the Treasury of the Presidents' recommendation and request 
the Treasury's comments, after which it was understood that the Board 
would consider the matter further. In this connection, some Board 
members noted that unless it was decided to discontinue the issuance 
of the large-denomination notes, sufficient supplies should be printed 

1511 
5/6/69 
-10-
to satisfy whatever demands existed for them at the respective Reserve 
Banks. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Treasury is attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Baltimore-Washington Clearing Center. The possibility of 
establishing a check clearing center in the Baltimore-Washington area 
had been under consideration for some time. The proposal had been 
described in detail in a report prepared by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Richmond in February 1968, it had been discussed by the Board with 
First Vice President Black of the Reserve Bank at a meeting in March 
of that year, the Board had subsequently requested additional information 
from the Bank, and such information had been furnished. 
In a letter of March 14, 1969, providing further information on 
the proposal, Reserve Bank President Heflin indicated that if the Board 
of Governors had no objection he planned to submit the proposal to the 
Richmond Board of Directors for approval and then to the Board of 
Governors for formal action. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended, 
in a memorandum of April 15, 1969, that President Heflin be advised 
that the Board of Governors had no objection to submission of a formal 
proposal to the Board of Directors and then to the Board of Governors. 
Governor Mitchell prefaced a discussion of the subject with an 
expression of support for the project and commented on the importance 

1 
2 
5/6/69 
-11-
that should be attached to it since the operation, if successful, was 
likely to be used as a model for similar operations elsewhere throughout 
the country. 
Governor Brimmer raised with the staff several questions with 
regard to aspects of the proposal that caused him some concern, including 
whether the operations of the clearing center would not work more to 
the advantage of nonmember than member banks. After the staff had 
responded to these and other questions, the Chairman observed that no 
final decision was involved at this time since the staff recommendation 
was only to invite formal submission of the proposal, and the discussion 
concluded on that note. 
The sending to President Heflin of a letter in the form attached 
as Item No. 5 was then approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
5 / 6 / 6 9 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO THE 
B O A R D 
May 9, 1969 
The Honorable Stanley R. Resor, 
Secretary of the Army, 
Department of the Army, 
Washington, D. C. 20310 
Re: Maximum interest rate on so-called "V-loans" 
guaranteed under Defense Production Act of 1950 
(50 App. U.S.C. 2091) . 
_
_ 
Dear Mr. Secretary: 
It has been suggested to the Board that the maximum interest 
rate of 7-1/2 per cent now in effect under the V-loan program (Federal 
Reserve Regulation V,' § 7(a); 32A CFR Ch. 15, § 7(a)) is insufficient 
under present economic conditions to assure the continued willingness 
of private financial institutions to make such loans. The Board 
agrees that current circumstances warrant consideration of an increase 
in the maximum rate on V-loans. 
Before taking any action in this respect, however, the 
Board would appreciate your views as to whether an increase in the 
maximum rate to 9 per cent would be appropriate or whether you would 
favor an increase to some maximum rate other than 9 per cent. 
A possible alternative to periodic adjustment of the maximum 
V-loan rate would be to fix that rate in some relation to the Federal 
Reserve discount rate (presently 6 per cent), or the so-called "prime" 
rate charged by most major banks on loans to their customers with the 
best credit (presently 7-1/2 per cent), or some other market rate. 
If you favor such an arrangement, please specify which base rate you 
prefer and the percentage differential in excess thereof at which you 
believe the maximum V-loan rate should be set. 
In connection with the 1966 increase in the maximum rate 
for V-loans, the Treasury Department objected informally to such a 
sliding rate proposal. This letter is also, therefore, being sent to 
that Department for comment. 
«4L 
res* 5 

The Honorable Stanley R. Resor 
-2-
In addition to your views on the above questions, the 
Board would also appreciate your views as to whether there is still 
a need for the V-loan program or whether its termination should be 
recommended to the Congress. 
One guaranteeing agency presently desires to arrange a 
V-loan, but finds this rather difficult at the current maximum rate 
of 7-1/2 per cent. It is therefore requested that your reply to 
this letter be received by May 20. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 2 
5/6/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 3 P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1969 
Henry J. Miller, Esq., 
Alston, Miller & Gaines, 
Twelfth Floor Citizens & Southern 
National Bank Building, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 30303 
Dear Mr. Miller: 
This refers to your letter of October 24, 1968 in which you 
requested the Board to modify its interpretation (1957 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 1131), relating to the applicability of section 3(a) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 12 U.S.C. 1841 et seq. ("the Act") 
to subscription by a holding company for the purchase of additional 
shares of stock in a bank through the exercise of preemptive rights. 
Your request is made on behalf of The Citizens and Southern National 
Bank of Georgia and its wholly-owned subsidiary, The Citizens and 
Southern Holding Company, both registered bank holding companies, 
and seeks a modification of the aforementioned interpretation for the 
purpose of enabling a bank holding company without prior approval of 
the Board to exercise preemptive rights to purchase bank stock where 
(1) the stock issue is responsive to a directive from the regulatory 
authority having supervisory responsibility over the issuing bank for 
an increase in capital, (2) all of the stock offered to effect the 
capital increase is purchased, and (3) after the capital increase, 
there will be no increase in the percentage of voting stock held, 
directly or indirectly, by the holding company. 
The Board has reviewed the above mentioned interpretation 
and has reaffirmed its earlier conclusion that the exercise of such 
rights is an acquisition of stock for the purposes of section 3(a) of 
the Act. Under the statutory provisions, the requirement for prior 
approval is operative if the holding company would thereafter own or 
control more than 5 per cent of the voting shares of the issuing bank 

1516 
Henry J. Miller, Esq. 
-2-
involved (if no exception provided in section 3(a) is applicable). 
The fact that the holding company's percentage of control will remain 
the same after such acquisition does not, in the Board's judgment, 
remove the acquisition from the requirements of section 3(a). The 
possibility of an increase in the holding company's proportional 
interest in the issuing bank was one of the reasons given by the 
Board for its 1957 interpretation; but it was not the only reason 
advanced. The Board relied also on the fact that the exercise of 
such rights would cause the assets of the issuing company to be in-
creased and the size or extent of the holding company system to be 
expanded. These considerations are relevant whether or not the 
holding company's proportional interest is increased, and in some 
instances could be determinative of the Board's action. Accordingly, 
the Board has declined to make the modification urged by you with 
respect to the 1957 ruling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

151.7 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
5/6/69 
uj r 
i n c . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R I I I 
O F F I C I A L 
o o n r i i f o n d i n c i 
TO THC 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1969 
Mr. Phillip S. Hughes, 
Deputy Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Hughes: 
This refers to your letter of March 13, 1969, requesting 
the Board's comments on proposals submitted by the Small Business 
Administration for consideration by the Committee on Suggested State 
Legislation of the Council of State Governments. One proposal is a 
general recommendation (without draft legislation) for a review of 
State laws to determine what amendments may appropriately be made so 
that the individual States may more affirmatively encourage the 
formation and expansion of Small Business Investment Companies through 
various statutory incentives. The Board favors this proposal as one 
that is in keeping with the intent and purposes of the Small Business 
Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.). 
The second proposal (this one accompanied by draft legis-
lation) is designed to facilitate the establishment of State industrial 
development companies in such form as would enable them to assist 
small business concerns through the instrumentality of the loan programs 
embodied in sections 501 and 502 of the Small Business Investment Act 
of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 695, 696). The Small Business Administration 
advises that similar legislation has been enacted in 22 States and 
has been greatly beneficial to small business concerns in those 
States; and that its adoption in other States will greatly benefit 
small business concerns. 
The Board favors the formation of State development cor-
porations for the purpose of increasing the availability of long-term 
funds and equity capital to small business concerns. The Board also 
favors the further implementation of sections 501 and 502 of the 
Small Business Investment Act relating to loans to State and local 
development companies. 

1518 
Mr. Phillip S. Hughes 
-2-
Relative to those provisions of the proposal that relate 
to investments and loans by banks - areas that relate to the Board's 
responsibilities - it is noted that the proposed legislation would 
enable banks to invest in corporations that have extensive authority 
to buy and sell real estate (sec. 3(4)), to acquire the business of 
any firm (sec. 3(5)), and to acquire the stock of any corporation 
(sec. 3(6)); the purposes of a State industrial corporation organized 
under the proposed legislation is stated to be "to promote, stimulate, 
develop, and advance the business prosperity and economic welfare of 
[name of State] and its citizens; to encourage and assist . . . the 
location of new business and industry . . . and to rehabilitate . . . 
existing business . . . to stimulate and assist in the expansion of all 
kinds of business activity . . . and to provide financing for the 
formation, development, and conduct of all kinds of business activity 
in this state." Apparently the activities of a corporation organized 
under the proposed legislation would not be limited to activities in 
aid of small business enterprises. In our judgment, the proposed 
legislation would enable a State bank that is not a member of the 
Federal Reserve System to purchase stock prohibited to national 
banks under the provisions of section 5136 of the Revised Statutes 
(12 U.S.C. 24) and to State member banks by virtue of section 9 of 
the Federal Reserve Act- (12 U.S.C. 335). 
The Board favors some broadening of the authority of banks 
(national as well as State) to purchase stock in certain types of 
companies. However, further critical study may be warranted with 
respect to some aspects of the SBA proposal. Attached are a number 
of questions that arose during consideration of this matter by our 
staff. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Attachment 

1519 
Questions relating to legislative proposal, for consideration 
by State legislatures, relating to formation of State 
industrial development corporations. 
1. 
Will State industrial development corporations (such as are 
contemplated under the proposed legislation) duplicate the work 
of the SBIC1s created under the Federal SBI Act? If so, what 
purpose will be served by such legislation; if not, in what 
way will the State corporations serve to expand the SBI 
program, and would this be desirable? 
2. 
The provisions of the draft legislation appear to grant 
extensive authority to the State industrial development cor-
porations organized thereunder to purchase, receive, hold, 
lease, sell, etc., real and personal property; to acquire the 
business, property, assets, etc., of any persons, firms, 
corporation, associations or trusts, etc.; to assume, under-
take, or pay the obligations, debts, and liabilities of any 
such person, firm, etc.; to acquire, own, hold, sell, mortgage, 
etc., the stock, bonds, indebtedness, etc., of any person, 
firm, etc. Is it desirable that a bank be authorized to 
invest in stock of companies with such unlimited authority? 
Should State ncinmember banks have such authority when it is 
denied to national and State member banks (under R.S. 5136 
and § 9 of the Federal Reserve Act)? Should it be sug-
gested that § 5136 be amended to enable national and State 
member banks to have similar authority to invest in such 
State industrial development corporations? 
3. 
The proposed legislation, apparently, would not limit a 
State industrial development corporation to aiding small 
businesses. Should they be so limited, or is there a 
sound basis for authorizing them to invest in large as well 
as small businesses? If the latter is desirable, perhaps 
the SBI Act should be amended to similarly enlarge the 
powers of Federal SBIC's. 
4. 
The draft legislation provides that the amount of stock 
of such corporation that may be acquired by a "member" 
(including a commercial bank) may not exceed 10 per cent of 
the loan limit of such member. If national banks were to 
be permitted to invest in such corporations (for instance, 
by amendment of R.S. 5136), would it be desirable for a State 
bank of a certain size to be able to purchase stock in amounts 
substantially larger than are permitted a competing national 
bank of the same size located in the same State? 

n y c o 
-2-
5. 
Under the proposed legislation, a bankfs investment in the 
stock of any one such corporation may not exceed 10 per cent 
of the bank1s general loan limit, and the sum of the bank's 
loans to and investments in any particular corporation may 
not exceed 2.5 per cent of the bank's capital and surplus. 
Are these limitations realistic and consistent with sound 
banking practices? It appears that a bank could become a 
member of a number of such corporations; is there a need 
for an aggregate limit for investment by a bank in all such 
corporations? The SBI Act limits the aggregate investments 
by a bank in all 
SBIC's to 5 per cent of the bank's capital 
and surplus. 
6. 
The 2.5 per cent of the capital and surplus of a commercial 
bank member (mentioned in item 5 above) is to be determined 
as of the time the bank became a member. Should there be 
provision for the limit to be enlarged as the bank and the 
economy grow? 
7. Should a bank be allowed to acquire 100 per cent of the 
stock of one or more industrial development corporations? 
The SBI Act precludes a bank from acquiring 50 per cent 
of more of the stock of any SBIC. 
8. 
Are the proposed State industrial development corporations 
to be financed wholly by private capital and free of sup-
port by State governments? . If State governments are to 
assume any liability for the obligations of such corpora-
tions, questions might arise as to the advisability of 
such a feature. 

1521 
••f^LRE^. 
BOARD OF GOVERNDRB 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
5/6/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 12, 1969. 
The Honorable David M. Kennedy, 
Secretary of the Treasury, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Dave: 
The purpose of this letter is to request an indica-
tion of the present thinking in the Treasury with respect to 
the desirability of continuing the issuance of Federal Reserve 
notes above the $100 denomination--i.e., $500's, $l,000's, 
$5,000's, and $10,000's. 
It may be helpful to mention some of the highlights 
in the long history of this question, beginning in 1946 when 
the Board directed that no further printings of Federal Reserve 
notes in denominations of $500 and above be requested by the 
Reserve Banks. The Board's Annual Report for that year noted 
that this action was taken because the large denominations 
were not needed for hand-to-hand circulation, lent themselves 
readily to undesirable uses such as black market transactions 
and other illegal purposes including the evasion of income 
and other taxes, and because any legitimate need for large 
denomination currency could be met by other means. At that 
time it was decided that the Reserve Banks could continue to 
pay out the existing stock of the big bills, and this supply 
was large enough to permit meeting demands for them up to the 
present. 
Doug Dillon reopened the question in a letter to me 
dated November 20, 1963, asking for the views of the Board and 
of the Reserve Banks with regard to whether discontinuance of 
the issuance of currency in denominations higher than $100 would 
impair service to the public. He indicated that members of the 
Treasury staff, notably those concerned with revenue matters, 
suspected that currency of higher denominations was used almost 
exclusively by persons engaged in illegal enterprises. In our 
reply dated February 6, 1964, we indicated that, while most of 
the Reserve Banks felt that there are some legitimate needs 
for the high denomination notes, none felt that such needs 
could not be met by use of lower denominations or by some other 
means. 

The Honorable David M. Kennedy -2-
In the light of this information Doug wrote again on 
May 8, 1964, suggesting that the Reserve Banks be requested not 
to issue any more notes above the $100 denomination and to hold 
pending further developments any of the larger notes they might 
receive from circulation. This request was passed along to the 
Reserve Banks, but problems arose almost immediately when some 
of the Banks discontinued paying out the large notes and ques-
tions were raised about how the change in policy was to be 
explained. Discussions between members of the staffs of the 
Treasury and the Board indicated that doubt had arisen in the 
Treasury about the timing of the change, and, with Bob Roosa's 
concurrence, all Reserve Banks were advised by the Board on 
August 26, 1964, that the Treasury wished to study the matter 
further, and that issuance of the large denomination notes should 
be continued pending completion of the study. 
It appeared from the staff discussions that at least 
part of the problem arose from the fact that the Federal Reserve 
had little or no evidence to support a statement that the large 
notes were being used for undesirable purposes, and that the 
Treasury did not seem to have much along this line either. 
During the period since 1964 the Presidents of the 
Reserve Banks have become increasingly concerned about the 
dwindling supply of the large bills. The figures on the 
enclosed statement indicate that the stocks of the $500 and 
$1,000 denominations will be exhausted in about two or three 
years. Accordingly, the March 1969 Conference of Presidents 
recommended that the Board propose to the Treasury that issu-
ance of Federal Reserve notes above the $100 denomination be 
discontinued, and that the Reserve Banks turn in to the Trea-
sury all existing supplies and all of such notes subsequently 
received from circulation in the normal course of business, 
with the understanding that an appropriate general announce-
ment would be made in order to minimize any adverse public 
reaction and eliminate the need for explanatory statements by 
individual Reserve Banks. 
I might add that the recommendation by the Conference 
of Presidents does not appear to have been based on any concern 
that the large bills are being used for undesirable purposes, 
but rather on a feeling that the real need for the large denom-
inations is not sufficient to warrant the added cost of the 
production and custody of new supplies. It is understood, for 
example, that new plates might cost between $50,000 and $100,000. 

1 5 2 3 
The Honorable David M. Kennedy -3-
In summary, the basic question would seem to be 
whether the public interest would be better served by discon-
tinuing issuance of the large denominations or by making 
arrangements for new printings of at least the $500's and 
$l,000's. Preliminary discussions by the Board indicated that 
there were no strong feelings on the matter, and, therefore, I 
hope you will regard this letter as merely a request for the 
views of the Treasury. Any comments you may care to make will 
be very much appreciated. 
Sincerely yours, 
<JiiM 
'•(v; 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosure 

1 f-
STOCKS OF UNISSUED $500-$10,000 FEDERAL RESERVE NOTES, 
NUMBER ISSUED AND REDEEMED IN RECENT YEARS, 
AND NUMBER IN CIRCULATION 
(Number of notes) 
$500 
$1,000 
$5.000 
$10,000 
Held by F. R. Agents 
at end of March 1969 
74,100 
82,250 
7,422 
4,878 
Issued during-
1968 
1967 
1966 
1965 
38,200 
26,300 
16,800 
21,300 
25,010 
17,100 
29,850 
12,250 
357 
2,970 
201 
117 
621 
1,492 
110 
83 
Redeemed during--!/ 
1968 
1967 
1966 
1965 
•kaf 
In circulation at end of--
1968 
1965 
1950 
1945 
1940 
26,478 
29,594 
26,635 
26,930 
488,295 
488,080 
731,456 
903,404 
447,087 
16,628 
19,399 
32,652 
16,863 
291,894 
287,200 
585,589 
797,852 
517,207' 
393 
2,224 
77 
133 
634 
534 
777 
1,405 
5,868 
664 
1,663 
52 
78 
383 
376 
1*211 
2,327 
5,979 
P 
Figures are abnormal in some years due to the fact that repeated 
counting by auditors wears out the notes after a period of time, 
making it necessary for Federal Reserve Agents to issue the notes 
to the Reserve Banks for destruction. 

I S ^ t ) 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 5 
• fthe 
5/6/69 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1969. 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
In response to your ietter of March 14 and other 
information which your Bank has provided in support of a proposed 
clearing center for the Baltimore-Washington area to be housed 
in the Baltimore Branch, the Board sees no reason why you should 
not submit a formal proposal to your Board of Directors and 
subsequently to the Board of Governors for action. Further, 
the Board can see no objection to the recommendations in your 
letter concerning the establishment of a relay station in the 
Washington area and giving Washington and nearby clearing banks 
the option of depositing their regular cash letters at that 
station provided that Baltimore Branch cutoff hours for regular 
cash letters are used for that purpose. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
vv V"! 
.*' • ' Is J*1 
11 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
