I 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 6, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 6, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
*• - K i . 
Q'yCiiUi :?, 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Cloth of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver and Wiles of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Maguire, Poundstone, Sanford, 
and Shuter of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
feu,,-. 
11 
C • OA , 
pro5 ' 
t 1) s -
Ci 

8/6/68 
-2-
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to a letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (copy attached 
as Item No. 1) in response to its request for reconsideration of the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed consolidation of The Old 
Corunna State Bank, Corunna, Michigan, into The Owosso Savings Bank, 
Owosso, Michigan. In reports on January 4, 1965, and December 14, 1966, 
the Board had expressed the view that the overall effect on competition 
would be adverse, and in the opinion of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation there had been no significant change in the competitive 
Picture. 
Interdistrict Settlement Fund. In a memorandum dated August 2, 
1968, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended that 
a
 statement comparing the present procedure of settling Interdistrict 
Settlement Fund transactions in gold certificates with a proposal for 
settling in securities be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks for evalua-
tion. The proposal had been included in a broader memorandum on 
Problems with respect to gold reserves that was sent to the Banks for 
comment in January of this year. However, the majority of the replies 
had been couched in general terms and the thought was now to focus on 
the specific item. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
the Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 2. 

8/6/68 
-3-
Amendments to Regulation G. 
In a memorandum dated August 2, 
1968 , the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended amend-
ments to Regulation G, Credit by Persons Other than Banks, Brokers, 
or Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity 
Securities, that would relax certain regulatory restrictions princi-
pally affecting credit unions. 
A number of requests for relief from some of the burdens 
imposed by Regulation G had been received from representatives of 
credit unions and several conferences had been held in an effort to 
develop a reasonable solution. The major amendments now proposed 
would (1) permit a lender subject to the regulation to lend up to 
$3 }500 in general credit along with credit for purchasing or carrying 
registered equity securities, and (2) permit credit unions whose 
membership was limited to employees and former employees of a corpor-
a
tion to make loans for the purchase of stock in the corporation 
under an employee stock purchase plan without regard to initial margin 
requirements. 
Other amendments would clarify certain technical aspects 
°f the regulation. 
In discussion, question was raised whether the suggested 
$3,500 exemption from the prohibition against a registrant's extending 
both credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying registered 
securities and other credit, at the same time, to the same borrower 
w
as not low. Staff explained that there had been some feeling that 

8/6/68 
-4-
the exemption should be kept rather low to minimize possibilities 
of evasion, but it was agreed that an exemption of $5,000 would not 
seem unreasonable. Board members expressed a preference for the 
higher figure. 
Since the staff was to meet soon with representatives of 
insurance companies to discuss related problems, a suggestion was 
made that the Board act today on the staff recommendation but defer 
Publication of the action pending the outcome of the forthcoming 
discussion. If it appeared desirable, the matter could then be 
brought back to the Board for further consideration. 
Subject to that understanding, unanimous approval was given 
to the recommended amendments to Regulation G, as modified in the 
one respect mentioned, effective the date of publication. 
Secretary's Note: 
It developed that there 
was no need for resubmission of the proposed 
amendments to the Board. Accordingly, the 
action by the Board was announced in a press 
release dated August 8, 1968. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 3. The amendments, 
effective August 8, were published in the 
Federal Register in the form attached as 
Item No. 4. 
Retirement System. A memorandum from Mr. Johnson dated 
August 2, 1968, presented a proposed technical amendment to the fourth 
Paragraph of section 12 of the Rules and Regulations of the Retirement 
System of the Federal Reserve Banks. The purpose was to define more 
Precisely the period of time during which the benefits payable to the 

8/6/68 
_5_ 
25 highest paid employees of an Employing Bank would be placed in 
Partial jeopardy in the event the Retirement System, after an increase 
m benefits, failed to meet its full current costs. Since the Retire-
ment System was fully funded, the question was academic. However, the 
i 
amendment, which had been suggested by the Internal Revenue Service, 
was designed to bring the rules and regulations into conformity with 
"current official policy." 
The amendment was approved unanimously; a copy of the letter 
sent to the Secretary of the Retirement System is attached as Item No. 5 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Civic National Bank, Marina 
d
el Rey, California, into Surety National Bank, Encino, California, was 
•5f££oved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The conclusion stated that the merger would have no adverse competitive 
e
ffects. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum dated August 5, 1968, 
Broida submitted a draft of policy record entry covering the meeting 
°f the Federal Open Market Committee on May 28, 1968. The entry, which 
a
 
been revised to take account of comments received on a preliminary 
d r
a f t , Was now presented for approval by the Board. If approved, it 
w
°uld be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, primarily for 
i n
formation but with an indication of the date by which any further 

8/6/68 
-6-
comments should be submitted. The entry would then be released about 
August 26, 1968, after final review by the Board. 
The entry was approved unanimously. 
"Shell" facilities. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated August 5, 1968, written in the light of 
discussion at the Board meeting on August 2 and previous staff memo-
randa on the subject of "shell" foreign branches, contained the 
foil owing summary and recommendations: 
From the viewpoint of supervision of the international 
banking operations of U.S. banks the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation does not see anything objectionable in the 
purpose behind the growth in the London operations and the 
proposed Nassau branches. Since the fulfillment of this 
purpose does not require contact with the public in Nassau 
or have any risk of intermixing accounts, the usual reasons 
for requiring separate quarters and staff are not appli-
cable. Neither has the Division been able to establish any 
other solid reason for making such requirement in these 
circumstances, unless it is to maintain some general image 
of U.S. banking operations abroad. Furthermore, it must 
be remembered that these branches will be subject to exami-
nation by the Board or the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Therefore, it is recommended that the principle of 
"shell" foreign branches be approved by the Board. 
However, 
in view of the newness and uniqueness of these operations, 
it is further recommended that the grant of permission be 
made subject to withdrawal or modification by the Board.... 
It should be noted that if the Board decides not to 
adopt the foregoing recommendations and prohibits the 
establishment of "shell" foreign branches, there will then 
remain the further question of the appropriateness of 
"shell" foreign subsidiaries. This question includes not 
only the applications on file for the establishment of four 
such subsidiaries, but also the four or five previously 
authorized and in operation. 

3001 
8/6/68 
-7-
The earlier staff memoranda on the subject included a 
memorandum from Messrs. Shay and Doyle dated July 30, 1968, on the 
feasibility of developing objective criteria for defining a foreign 
"branch"; a memorandum from the Division of International Finance 
dated July 29, 1968, on the effects of the operations of foreign 
branches of U.S. banks on the U.S. balance of payments; and a memo-
randum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated July 16, 
1968, with attachments, on the pending applications for overseas 
"shell" facilities. 
Copies of all of the foregoing staff papers have been placed 
in the Board's files. 
At today's meeting there was a further lengthy discussion of 
the "shell" facilities problem and its many ramifications. 
In the 
initial stages of the discussion the interrogation by Board members • 
directed principally to the staff of the Division of International 
Finance, who endeavored to explain more fully the conclusions reached 
l n
 the July 29 memorandum with regard to the effects of foreign branch 
°Perations on the U.S. balance of payments. Their comments and the 
e
nsuing general discussion dealt not only with balance of payments 
statistics but longer-run implications, including the possible evolu-
tion of two U.S. banking systems, one domestic and the other restricted 
to foreign operations. 

8/6/68 
-8-
The relationship of foreign branch operations to the objectives 
°f the foreign credit restraint program was also examined, and some 
apprehension was expressed that a proliferation of "shell" operations 
in the Bahamas would have an undermining influence on that program. 
Removal of an increasing proportion of the operations of U.S. banks 
from reserve requirements and from limitations on the rates payable 
on deposits also was cited as a cause of some concern. 
Questions were directed to the staff on the extent to which it 
appeared that the operations of Nassau branches had resulted, or might 
result, in a shift of foreign deposits from the head offices of U.S. 
banks, as opposed to improving the opportunity for solicitation of 
additional foreign deposits. During the discussion of this point, 
Board members expressed disappointment that more information on the 
sources and uses of deposits at the Nassau branches was not available. 
In all the circumstances, Board members expressed a disinclina-
tion to act at this time on pending applications. A need for additional 
empirical evidence was suggested in view of the far-reaching consider-
ations involved. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that the Federal Reserve Banks 
should be requested to obtain and transmit to the Board information 
°
n
 the type and scope of operations of established foreign branches 
and subsidiaries in the Bahamas and elsewhere in that area, along with 
similar information on operations proposed to be conducted if pending 

30'o 
8/6/68 
-9-
applications were approved and the Reserve Banks' own views on major 
questions such as the Board had debated today. Also, the Reserve 
Banks would be requested to notify institutions whose applications 
were pending that the Board would not take action on those applica-
tions until its study of the general subject had been completed. 
Secretary's Note: 
A copy of the letter 
subsequently sent to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia is attached as Item 
No. 6. The letters sent to other Reserve 
Banks were similar to the Philadelphia 
letter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board the 
following items: 
Foreign travel 
Paul Gekker, Senior Economist, Division of International Finance, 
to visit the central banks of Poland, Czechoslovakia, and England, in 
connection with his attendance at the Fifth International Seminar on 
Economic Planning in Eastern Europe to be held in Budapest, Hungary, 
September 11-13, 1968. 
(The Budapest seminar was subsequently canceled 
e
cause of developments in Czechoslovakia. Accordingly, Mr. Gekker did 
n o t
 undertake this official travel.) 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
^Epointment 
Virginia D. Timenes as Economist, Division of International Finance, 
wi
-th basic annual salary at the rate of $9,590, effective the date of 
e n
trance upon duty. 
. 
>>v;, i ^ t • t i y 
, , ""! '- . u 
• 
• •' •' 
Trans fer 
Priscilla Ormsby, from the position of Economist, Division of 
Research and Statistics, to the position of Technical Assistant, Office 
o f
 the Secretary, effective August 11, 1968. 

3004 
8/6/68 
-10-
Title changes 
Robert C. Burton, from Review Examiner to Supervisory Review 
Examiner, Division of Supervision and Regulation, effective August 11, 
1968. 
James K. Sanford, from Review Examiner to Supervisory Review 
Examiner, Division of Supervision and Regulation, effective August 11, 
1968. 
: • '• 
• 
" 
Acceptance of resignations 
Richard F. Gleisner, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business August 23, 1968. 
Bernice T. O'Brien, Clerk-Librarian, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, effective the close of business August 19, 1968. 
On August 6, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
telegram and letters, copies of which 
are attached as indicated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
7 
Dallas approving the appointment of 
Milton Martin Dusek, Jr., as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to United California Bank, Los 
8 
Angeles, California, approving the 
establishment of a branch in Oceanside. 
the Director of the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Letter to Swope Parkway National Bank, 
Kansas City, Kansas, granting its request 
for permission to maintain reduced reserves. 
9 

3005 
jj.if 
. 5 
-. • •; • ,./ •: .. > iJ / 
i ! 
' . 
: 
... 
J y 
; ' 
8/6/68 
-11-
- 
-
^Mjffthe Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
' 
' 
. 
' . . 
... 
. 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
10 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch in Seaford. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
11 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in 
Springfield Township. 

o v V v 
B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
Item N o . 1 
8/6/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
• F T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 8, 1968 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D . C . 
20429 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 1, 1968, 
the Board has reconsidered its report filed on December 14, 
1966, under section 18(c) of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Act, on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of The Old Corunna State Bank, Corunna, 
Michigan, into The Owosso Savings Bank, Owosso, Michigan. 
After a review of the additional information submitted, the 
Board concludes that there has been no significant change 
in the competitive situation since its previous report was 
submitted and continues to hold the view that the overall 
effect of the proposed transaction on competition would be 
adverse. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y B T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
3007 
Item No. 2 
8/6/68 
k D D R E S B 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 7, 1968. 
u, 
. . . c,i 
• 
Dear Sir: 
The Board's letter of January 23, 1968, concerning gold 
reserves, transmitted to each Reserve Bank for comments a staff 
memorandum which included a recommendation for settling Interdistrict 
Settlement Fund transactions through security holdings rather than 
gold holdings. 
The Board's Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations has 
prepared 
the attached statement explaining the proposed arrangement 
In more detail, in order to permit evaluations by all concerned. 
It 
w
ould be helpful to the Board to have the benefit of such evaluations 
a
nd any comments your Bank may care to submit by October 1, 1968. 
With respect to the comments received to the earlier letter, 
i
t may be of interest to mention that no objections to the adoption 
the recommendation were interposed by any Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Attachment 
T o
 THE PRESIDENTS OF AIL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

r
M
m
^
y
-
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
• f f c E ^ 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
For immediate release 
Item No. 3 
8/6/68 
August 8, 1968 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today approval of amendments relaxing some provisions of Regulation G, 
Particularly as they pertain to credit unions. Regulation G applies 
to credit by persons other than banks, brokers and dealers for purchasing 
0 r
 carrying registered equity securities. 
The major amendments would: 
--Permit a lender subject to the regulation to lend up to 
,000 in general credit along with credit for purchasing or carrying 
r e
£istered securities. At present, the regulation forbids a lender 
subject to its provisions to extend both types of credit to the same 
borrower at the same time. The restriction is said to work a hardship, 
f
°r example, on borrowers who bought stock using a credit union loan and 
*
a t
er want to borrow for such purpose as a family emergency or to buy a 
car. 
--Permit credit unions whose membership is limited to employes 
a n
d former employes 
of a corporation to make loans for the purchase of 
s t
ock in the corporation under an employe stock purchase plan without 
r e
£ard to initial margin requirements. 
Such loans must be made under a 
p ] a
n embodying safeguards to discourage repayment of the loan with proceeds 
R 
r
om sale of the purchased stock. Such credit can now be extended by a 
c
°rporation itself under similar safeguards. The new amendment would 
e
*tend this authority to company-related credit unions. 

j. 3009 
- 2 -
There are about 24,000 credit unions in the United States 
w
ith total membership of about 12 million persons but the vast majority 
a r
e in no way affected by Regulation G which applies only to a lender 
w
ith $50,000 in new loans or $1J0,000 in loans outstanding' against reg-
istered equity securities in a given calendar quarter. 
Some 178 credit unions had registered with the Board of 
G
°vernors under provisions of Regulation G as of last July 24. Many are 
connected with corporations having employe stock purchase plans. 
The text of the amendments will be published shortly in the 
Federal Register. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
I t e m N q > 
4 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/6/68 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Reg. G] 
PART 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Miscellaneous Amendments Relaxing Certain 
Restrictions Regarding Credit Unions and Others 
1. a. Section 207.1(a), (b), (e), (h) and (i) is amended 
t 0
 read as follows: 
5 2
07.1 General rule. 
(a) Registration. - Every person who, in the ordinary course 
of his business, during any calendar quarter ended after October 20, 
extends or arranges for the extension of a total of fifty thousand 
hilars ($50,000) or more or has outstanding at any time during the 
calendar quarter, a total of one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) or 
®
0
*e, in credit, secured directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
collateral that includes any registered equity securities, unless 
such person is subject to Part 220 (Regulation T) or Part 221 (Regula-
tion U) of this Chapter, is subject to the registration requirements 
o f
 this paragraph and shall, within 30 days following the end of the 
calendar quarter during which the person becomes subject to such regis-
tration requirements, register with the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System by filing a statement in conformity with the requirements 
of Federal Reserve Form G-l with the Federal Reserve Bank of the district 
which the principal office of such person is located: Provided, That 
n
° such statement need be filed with respect to credit extended in the 
calendar quarter that ended December 31, 1967, until April 10, 1968. 

-2-
3011 
(b) Termination of registration, - Any person so registered 
who has not, during the preceding six calendar months, extended or 
maintained or arranged for the extension or maintenance of any credit 
secured directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, by collateral 
that includes any registered equity securities may apply for termina-
tion, of such registration by filing Federal Reserve Form G-2 with the 
Federal Reserve Bank of the district in which the principal office of 
such person is located. 
* 
* 
* 
(e) Statements as to purpose of credit. - In connection 
w
ith any extension of credit secured directly or indirectly, in whole 
0 r
 in part, by collateral that includes any registered equity security, 
every person who is subject to the registration requirement of para-
graph (a) of this section shall, prior to such extension, obtain a 
statement in conformity with the requirements of Federal Reserve 
p
orm G-3 executed by the customer and executed and accepted in good 
faith by such person. Such person shall retain such statement in his 
records for at least six years after such credit is extinguished. In 
determining whether credit is "purpose credit", such person may rely 
the statement executed by the customer if accepted in good faith. 
To accept the customer's statement in good faith, such person must 
(1) be alert to the circumstances surrounding the credit and (2) if 
he has any further information which would cause a prudent man not to 
accept the statement without inquiry, have investigated and be satis-
fied that the customer's statement is truthful. Circumstances which 

Oil jL./'w 
-3-
could indicate that such person has not exercised reasonable diligence 
in so acquainting himself and so investigating would include, but are 
not limited to, facts such as that (1) the proceeds of the credit were 
paid to a broker or to a bank in connection with contemporaneous 
delivery of registered equity securities, whether or not payment was 
made against delivery, (2) there were frequent substitutions of 
registered equity securities serving as collateral for the credit, 
o r
 (3) the amount of the credit was disproportionate, or the terms 
inappropriate, to the stated purpose. 
•>'c "k ic 
(h) Purpose and nonpurpose credit extended to the same 
fierson. "
 N o
 lender shall after February 1, 1968, extend or arrange 
for 
the extension of any purpose credit, or maintain or arrange for 
the maintenance of any purpose credit extended after February 1, 1968, 
if the credit is secured directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, 
b
y collateral that includes any registered equity security which also 
secures, directly or indirectly, in whole or in part, any other credit 
in excess of $5,000 extended to the same customer after February 1, 
1968; and no lender shall have outstanding at the same time to the same 
customer both such purpose credit and any such other credit; Provided, 
That the prohibitions of this paragraph shall not apply to (i) credit 
extended for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, maintaining, or 
improving a dwelling which is occupied or to be occupied by the 
custcmer as his principal residence, and is secured by a first lien on 

such duelling; or (ii) to credit secured by a share account or other 
claim acquired by the customer from the lender independently of the 
credit and payable (or entitling the holder to a loan thereon) in a 
dollar amount determined without regard to the market value of the 
assets supporting the claim. 
ie 
-k 
(i) Purpose credit secured by both registered equity 
securities and by other collateral. - In the case of any purpose credit 
e
^tended or arranged after February 1," 1968, secured, directly or 
indirectly, in whole or in part, by any registered equity security, no 
other collateral shall have any loan value in respect to such credit 
*or the purpose of this Part: Provided, however, that a share account 
°
r
 other claim acquired by the customer from the lender independently 
o f
 the credit and payable (or entitling the holder to a loan thereon) 
in a dollar amount determined without regard to the market value of 
the assets supporting the claim shall have a maximum loan value as 
d e
termined by the lender in good faith. 
* * 
* 
b. Hie change in paragraphs (a) and (b) corrects an 
^intentional ambiguity. The change in paragraph (e) clarifies that 
a
 Person must begin to obtain purpose statements in conformity with 
the requirements of Federal Reserve Form G-3 as soon as he becomes 
S u b
ject to the registration requirements of paragraph (a) of this 
Action, even though he has not actually registered. The change in 
Paragraph (h) permits a certain amount of non-purpose credit to be 

combined with "purpose credit", as defined by § 207.2(c)(1), extended 
to the same person. The change also exempts first mortgage credit 
a
nd loans against credit union shares or against the cost value of an 
e m
Ployee's interest in certain pension or profit sharing plans from 
the prohibition against extending purpose and non-purpose credit to 
t h e
 same person. The change in paragraph (i) permits credit unions and 
employee thrift plans to give good faith loan value to cash deposits of 
the borrower, which do not reflect direct investment in registered 
equity securities when such collateral is combined with registered equity 
securities securing a purpose credit. 
2. a . Section 207.2(b), (c) and (d) is amended to read as 
follows: 
5
 207.2 Definitions. 
* 
* 
* 
(b) The term "in the ordinary course of his business" means 
occurring or reasonably expected to occur from time to time in the 
c
ourse of any activity of a person for profit or the management and 
Preservation of property or in addition, in the case of a person other 
than an individual, carrying out or in furtherance of any business 
Purpose. 
(c) The "purpose" of a credit is determined by substance 
r a
ther than form. 

w 
* 
*>r\ , tr 
- 6 -
(1) Credit which is for the purpose, whether immediate, 
incidental, or ultimate, of purchasing or carrying a registered equity 
security is "purpose credit", despite any temporary application of 
funds otherwise. 
(2) Credit to enable the customer to reduce or retire 
indebtedness which was originally incurred to purchase a registered 
equity security is for the purpose of "carrying" such a security. 
(d) Registered equity security. -
(1) The term "registered equity security" means any 
equity security—^ which 
(i) is registered on a national securities 
exchange; or (ii) has unlisted trading privileges 
on a national securities exchange, or (iii) is 
exempted by the Securities and Exchange Commission 
from the operation of section 7(c)(2) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(c)(2)) 
only to the extent necessary to render lawful any 
direct or indirect extension or maintenance of credit 
on such security. 
(2) Credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
(i) any security convertible with or without consideration 
into a registered equity security or carrying any warrant 
or right to subscribe to or purchase a registered equity 
security or any such warrant or right, or (ii) any security 
th.-s 3 
-liM 
foUov, 
i 
ft./ As defined in 15 U.S.C. 78c(a) (11). 

3016 
-7-
issued by an investment company registered pursuant to 
section 8 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
80a-8), whose assets customarily include registered equity 
securities, is for the purpose of purchasing or carrying 
registered equity securities, and such security, or such 
warrant or right, shall for purposes of this Part be treated 
as if it were a registered equity security. 
* 
•>'< Vf 
b. The change in paragraph (b) clarifies that the 
Paragraph, was not intended to cover only persons registered as ••lenders
1
' 
under this Part. The change in paragraphs (c) and (d) clarifies that this 
Part applies to a purpose loan secured by shares in a mutual fund only if 
the assets of such fund customarily include registered equity securities 
and that a loan to purchase such securities is a purpose loan. 
3. a. Section 207.4(a) and (b) is amended to read as 
follows: 
§ 207.4 Miscellaneous provisions. 
(a) Stock option and employee stock purchase plans. -
In respect to any credit extended and maintained by a corporation, 
b
y a lender wholly controlled by such corporation, or by a lender 
*hich is a membership thrift organization whose membership is limited 
to employees and former employees of such corporation, its subsidiaries, 
°r affiliates (such corporations and such lenders are both sometimes 

-8-
3017 
referred to as "plan-lenders"), to an officer or employee of the 
corporation, subsidiary or affiliate thereof to finance the exercise 
of rights granted such officer or employee under a stock option plan 
or employee stock purchase plan adopted by the corporation and 
approved by a majority of its stockholders to purchase registered 
equity securities of such corporation, subsidiary or affiliate, 
* 
k 
k 
k 
* 
(b) List of securities, - In determining whether a security 
is a registered equity security or*a security convertible into such 
security, or a security of the kind described in section 207.2(d)(2), 
a lender may rely upon the latest list of equity securities registered 
on a national securities exchange and securities of the kind described 
in section 207.2(d)(2) issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
W r j,; > 
k 
k 
k 
b. The change in paragraph (a) permits company-related 
credit unions and thrift plans to make loans to finance employee 
stock purchase plans of the sponsor company on the same terms and 
conditions as the paragraph now permits for lenders wholly controlled 
by the company itself. The change in paragraph (b) substitutes 
"section 207.2(d)(2)" for "section 207.2(c)(3)" to correspond with 
the amendment to section 207.2(c) and (d), above. 
4. a. The foregoing amendments are effective August 8, 
1968. 

3018 
-9-
b . The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United 
* $ 
x'-il" <• 
• 
" ' " " 
States Code, relating to notice and public participation and to 
deferred effective dates, were not followed in connection with these 
amendments• The effect of the amendments is to relax certain re-
strictions, and, in the circumstances, the Board found that following 
such procedures would result in delays that would be contrary to the 
public interest and serve no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 9th day of August, 1968, 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
- 
• • 
'••' >•; 
' 
i 
>"• 
.
.
.
.
. 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
8 / 6 / 6 8 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 6 , 1968 
Mr. Martin W . Bergin, Secretary, 
Retirement System of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear M r . Bergin: 
The Board has approved an amendment to the fourth 
Paragraph of Section 12 of the Rules and Regulations of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, as follows: 
If the full current costs of the Employing 
Bank under these rules and regulations have not 
been met as of the end of any of the first ten 
years following a Commencement Date, then until 
/such/ the full current costs have been met for 
the first t ime, the amount of benefits paid by 
the Retirement System to any such member from 
contributions (or funds attributable thereto) by 
the Employing Bank shall not exceed the amount 
thereof that would have been paid when limited 
as provided in the preceding paragraph of this 
Section 12 had the contributions to the Retire-
ment System been discontinued by the Employing 
Bank at the end of any such year. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
8/6/68 
A O O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1968 
M r . Karl R . Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101. 
Dear M r , Bopp: 
The Board has recently received, from a number of member 
banks and Edr.e Act corporations, applications for permission to 
establish branches or subsidiaries to be located in the Bahamas 
or elsewhere in the West Indies, and it is understood that other 
such applications are being prepared for submission to the Board, 
In addition, several banks or corporation have already received 
Board pernior.lTon to establish branches or subsidiaries 
the 
Bahamas and have begun operations there. 
In cssence, the proposed branches and subs idiarie3 
vould be so-called "shelVfacilities consisting principally of 
only an address, a set of books, and a part-tine manager supplied 
in ione case3 by an institution already operating in the area. 
It vould appear that all arrangements tor deposit and loan trans-
actions and all policy decisions vould be made at the parent bank's 
head office in the United States. Moreover, it is the Board's 
impression that most ot the branches and subsidiaries already 
operating in the Bahamas carry on little or no local banking 
or financing, and that their principal activities have been to 
receive deposits and other fundo and to channel them into loans 
and investments abroad, usually pursuant to arrangements made 
by officials at the parent banks' U.S. offices. 
In view of these developments, three questions arise: 
(1) whether the use of ouch branches and subsidiaries is a 
method of avoiding the requirements and restrictions of Regu-
lations D and Q, and tha Foreign Credit Restraint Program; (2) 
whether the Board should deny applications for branches or sub-
sidiaries that v,\)uld conduct only limited activities; and (3) 
if the Board approves ouch applications, what requirements, if 
any, should be imposed as to staff ins, office epace, rccord 
keoping, authority assigned to local management, etc. 

Mr. Karl R . Bopp 
- 2 -
The Board believes that it would be helpful, before 
taking action on pending applications, to develop specific 
information conccrning the type end scope of operations of pro-
posed and established foreign branches and subsidiaries in the 
Bahamas, and elsewhere in the area. For this purpose, it will 
be appreciated if one or more representatives of your Bank would 
visit the institutions listed below and ascertain the facts 
desired. For the guidance of your representatives, we have 
prepared n list of questions which ue would like to have 
explore^,. It is not all-inclusive and is not intended as a 
questionnaire to bo filled out by the bank. 
The Board will appreciate any views your Bank may 
have as to tho three questions indicated above and any other 
aspect of the natter. It is hoped that responses to the ques-
tionnaire will be received by August 23, together with your 
comments. 
Applications have been received froai the following 
institutions in your District: 
(1) The Fidelity Bank, ThilcdelphiA, for a branch 
in Nassau. 
(2) The Fidelity International Corporation, for a 
subsidiary in Nassau. 
(3) The Fidelity International Corporation, for a 
subsidiary in Nassau in conjunction with A f r i c a n 
International Bank (N.Y.) and Wachovia Inter-
national Investment Corporation. 
) 
The following institutions in your District have estr.b 
liched branches or subsidiaries in the Bahamas: 
(1) Firut Pennsylvania Overseas Finance Corporation, 
finance subsidiary in Nassau. 
(2) The Philadelphia National Bank, branch in Nassau. 
*v . 
• 
(3) Provident National Bank, branch in Nassau. 

Mr. Karl R. Bopp 
.3-
The institutions that have Applications pending before 
the Board should be advised that the Board will not take action 
until the study of this subjoct has been completed, 
Very truly yours, 
' 
(signed) Robert P.. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrectal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
E n d os u re 

Guide for Developing Information Relating to Branches and Subsidiaries 
Established or Proposed to be Established in the Bahamas and Vicinity 
(The questions should be appropriately modified for those 
institutions not yet operating, and answered in 
the light of their expectations.) 
1. Exact location of the branch (or subsidiary). 
2. Number of officers and employees at the branch (or subsidiary) 
(a) full time: 
officers; 
employees 
(b) part time: 
officers; 
employees 
3. (a) Is the branch (or subsidiary) the sole occupant of its 
quarters? 
(b) Are quarters owned or rented? 
4. How many hours a day is office staffed? 
5. (a) Source of officers and employees (i.e., from home office, 
' . - ' • ' 
- 
• i . 
locally, or both). 
(b) Banking experience of officers. 
(c) Duties of officers. 
6- 
To what extent is bookkeeping done in the office? 
7. (a) What independent discretionary authority does the 
officer in charge have to conduct normal banking 
operations, including receipt of deposits and 
extension of credit? 
(b) What policy guidelines and amount limitations are 
in effect in this regard? 
8. 
(a) Does the branch (or subsidiary) afford banking services 
to the public? 
If so, to what extent? 
(b) Does the branch have a resident or nonresident license? 

- 2 -
9. (a) From what sources are deposits or other funds received 
(i.e., U.S. residents; foreign banks, foreign governments)? 
Identify to extent possible, especially if depositors are 
also depositors in parent 
bank. 
(b) Reason for decision to deposit in branch rather than head 
office? 
(c) Compare size of deposits in head office by common depositors--
before and after establishment of branch or subsidiary. 
10. (a) Have any deposits or other funds, domestic.or foreign, been 
transferred from head office or domestic branches to the 
branch (or subsidiary)? 
Identify and state amount, 
(b) Have any new deposits from foreign or U.S. residents that 
would otherwise have been received at head office or domestic 
branches been diverted to the foreign branch (or subsidiary)? 
11. What procedure does the branch (or subsidiary) use in obtaining 
Euro-dollars? 
12. (a) What rates of interest are currently being paid on 
deposits in head office or domestic branches and in 
foreign branch (or subsidiary)? 
(b) Does the branch (or subsidiary) pay interest on demand 
deposi ts? 
13. Does bank or corporation expect a transfer of foreign-owned 
deposits from head office to the branch (or subsidiary) when 
the Foreign Investors Tax Act becomes fully operative? 

14. To what extent, if any, are loans or other assets on the 
books of head office or domestic branches transferred to 
the foreign branch (or subsidiary)? 
15. (a) To what categories of borrower are loans extended by 
the branch (or subsidiary) (e.g., foreign corporations, 
subsidiaries of U.S. corporations, etc.)? 
(b) What types of loans are generally made? 
Term, etc. 
(c) How are other funds employed by branch or subsidiary? 
16. To what extent, if any, are funds in the branch (or subsidiary) 
provided to home office on a regular basis? 
17. Ascertain in detail any other operations of the branch 
(or subsidiary). 
18. Why was Nassau (or similar location) chosen as the site 
for the branch (or subsidiary)? 

o u ^ b 
Item No. 7 
T E L E G R A M 
8/6/68 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
August 6 , 1968 
SULLIVAN - DALLAS 
Reurlet August 1, 1968, Acting Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, on behalf of Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves appointment of Milton Martin Dusek, Jr. as 
assistant examiner for Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Please 
advise effective date of appointment. 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

o
W 
/ 
B O A R D 
CDF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item N o . 8 
8/6/68 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 12, 1968 
Board of Directors,. 
United California Bank, 
Los Angeles, California. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the establishment of a branch by United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, at the northwest corner 
of Mission Avenue and Nevada Street, Oceanside, California, pro-
vided the branch is established within 6 months from the date of 
this letter. 
In approving this application, it has been determined 
that your management is adequate, that the proposed branch will 
serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that estab-
lishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

U U ^ O 
b o a r d 
df 
g o v e r n o r s 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 9 
8/6/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 7, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Jfwope Parkway National Bank, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, the Director of the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations of the Board of Governors, 
acting under delegated authority, grants permission pursuant to 
provisions of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to the Swope 
Parkway National Bank to maintain the same reserves as are required 
to be maintained by banks not in reserve cities, effective July 2, 
1968, the date it opened for business. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such permission 
is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'40A.2-11/67 
Item No. 10 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
8/6/68 
N E W YORK, N E W XPRK 10045 
A U G 6 
1968 
ttr. ttlchael J. 0111 
A n U t i n t frtuurtr 
$ankors Trust Caopany 
16 Wall Street 
low York, Bew York 10015 
D e a r ttr* 0 1 1 1 1 
Vt refer to your beak's application dated June 6, 
966j requesting pemission to eetabllsh a braaeh office 
st the southeast corner of the latereectloa of Vashlagtoa 
Avenue and Herrlek Boad, Tillage of Beaford (unincorporated 
)i Tovn of fieapeteed* Basseu County, lev York* After 
vlewlag the aypllcatloa la the light of the factors 
rated la Seetloa 265.2(f)(1) of the Bules Bcgardlng 
Delegation of Authority Issued by the Board of Ooveraors 
f the federal Beservc Syetea* we hare concluded that your 
applieatlea should be approved* Accordingly* oa behalf of 
$he Board of Governors* the Federal Beeerve Bank of lev 
rk* acting under delegated authority* approves the es-
abllehaeat by your bank of a braaeh office at the above-
nentlonod location* provided It le established within one 
year of the date of this letter* 
Ve shall appreciate your advising us when the 
braaeh le actually established aad opeaed for buslaces* 
giving the effective date of epealag* the naae* If aay* by 
which It will be known* and the official poetal address* 
including the sip codc aunber* 
Please acknowledge receipt by elgaiag aad re-
turning to ue the eneloced copy ef this letter• 
Tory truly yeure* 
• 
Fred v* Flderlt* Jr. 
flee Freeldeat 
DO 1 an 

rliiij 
J&Hti • 
_ 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
' ^ n u o . 
2 
PHILADELPHIA, 
PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 11 
8/6/68 
•n o, 
o u 
August 6, 19^8 
Mr. Howard C. Petersen 
Chairman of the Board 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Dear Mr. Petersen: 
Under date of August\l6 
Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System apjSroveatlWestablishment by The 
Fidelity Bank of a brap<?Tr>srffice iK the^icinity of the inter-
section of Baltimore/^ike aik SprouIVEoa^ Springfield Township, 
Delaware County, E^nsyivknia\ provided tttebranch was es-
tablished vithin/one/vear ot thK aforesMd^/late. 
Under (Jtte\f July 11, 1967 you were advised the 
Board of^Oo^ernors \ad\xtendepr fo» six months from August 16, 
1967 ttfe tim^Cwithin Xhict 
V J m x b<£nk could establish a branch 
at >fie adKltec* locatio 
U n d ^ V t e of January 23, 19^8 you were advised the 
Boafcrd 
Governors \ a d extended for six months from February 16, 
196o
s
^he\Aime 
which your bank could establish a branch at 
the subject l^cat: 
rr date of July 29, 1968 Assistant Vice President 
Aaronson of your bank advised us that it is not feasible now to 
establish the branch as originally planned on the northwest corner 
of the intersection but it may be possible to establish it on the 
northeast corner and Mr. Aaronson has asked for another extension 
of time. 
This is to advise you that on behalf of the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated 
authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia extends for 

•.rm 
D£RAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
NO. 2 
JQ Mr. Howard C. Petersen, Chairman of the Board 
3031 
8/6/68 
six months from August 16, 1968 the time within which The Fidelity Bank 
m
ay establish a branch in the vicinity of the intersection of Baltimore 
Pike and Sproul Road, Springfield Township, Delaware County, Pennsylvania. 
Govi't'ior !>: 
O
w
n 
>':ioc Slwrr 
