MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 11, 1969 

36*>7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Smith, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mrs. Semia, Mr. Metzger, and Mr. Grajcar of 
the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Via of the Legal Division 

12/11/69 
-2-
Messrs. Ducy and Fisher of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Poundstone and Shantz of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Foreign banking matter. Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
Boston, Massachusetts, had applied for permission to acquire 50 per 
cent of the shares of a finance and leasing company to be established 
in San Jose, Costa Rica, and also to acquire 40 per cent of the shares 
of a leasing company to be established in Caracas, Venezuela, plus an 
option to acquire an additional 10 per cent at book value. 
The staff recommended in a memorandum of December 9, 1969, 
that consent be granted to the acquisition of shares in the Costa 
Rican company subject to the conditions ordinarily applied in the case 
of majority ownership, including a condition that the Costa Rican com-
pany must confine its activities essentially to the leasing of property 
under leases under which the company would recover the full costs of 
acquisition and any other expenses expected to be incurred by it during 
the lease and that the company must not acquire property for leasing 
before the prospective lessee had executed the lease agreement. 
The staff proposed to advise the applicant that the same 
conditions would apply to the investment in the Venezuelan company upon 
exercise of the option to increase the percentage of shares owned to 
50 per cent. 
Question was raised by Governor Robertson whether applicant 
might not be tempted to avoid imposition of the aforementioned 

12/11/69 
-3-
conditlons by refraining from increasing its share of ownership of 
the Venezuelan company to more than slightly under 50 per cent. Even 
if it did so refrain, he pointed out, it presumably could exercise 
effective control over the affairs of the company. 
After some discussion of that point, agreement was expressed 
with Governor Robertson's suggestion that the same conditions be 
imposed in connection with both of the proposed investments. 
Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation in the form attached as Item 
No. 1. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Hardy Banking Company, 
North Baltimore, Ohio, into First National Bank, Bowling Green, Ohio, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion reading as follows: 
There is little, if any, competition now existing 
between The Hardy Banking Company, North Baltimore, and 
First National Bank, Bowling Green. Potential for 
greater competition between them is believed to be 
minimal. 
The proposed merger would have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Port Washington Savings and Loan Association, Port Washington, 
New York, into The Roslyn Savings Bank, Roslyn, New York, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion, the conclusion reading as follows: 

3700 
12/11/69 
-4-
Consummation of the proposed merger of Port 
Washington Savings and Loan Association, Port Washington, 
into The Roslyn Savings Bank, Roslyn, New York, would 
eliminate little existing or potential competition, and 
in view of the, substantial number and variety of financial 
institutions offering convenient facilities, the proposal 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Prosser, Prosser, Washington, into Bank of Yakima, 
Yakima, Washington, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the conclusion reading as 
follows: 
Consummation of the merger of Bank of Yakima, Yakima, 
Washington, and Bank of Prosser, Prosser, Washington, would 
eliminate virtually no present or potential competition, 
hence would have no adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of Painted Post, Painted Post, New York, into Marine 
Midland Trust Company of Rochester, Rochester, New York, was held over 
for further study in view of differences that were noted between the 
analyses of the relevant market by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
and by the Board's staff. 
United California Bank. Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on December 1, 1969, of the application of United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, to merge with El Dorado 
State Bank, Napa, California, was authorized. 

370:1 
12/11/69 
-5-
A concurring statement by Governor Brimmer also had been 
prepared, and Governor Robertson now stated that he would like to 
place on record that he joined in the concurring statement. 
No 
objection was indicated. 
Copies of the order, statement, and concurring statement, as 
issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 
Changes in call report instructions. 
In a memorandum of 
December 10, 1969, Messrs. Veenstra (Division of Data Processing) and 
Sigel recommended changes in, or clarification of, call report 
instructions and treatment in three areas, as follows: bank reporting 
of real estate mortgages purchased or sold under resale/repurchase 
transactions; bank reporting of purchases and sales of participations . 
in pools of loans; and bank reporting of amounts due to and due from 
foreign branches. 
The recommendations had been agreed upon by an 
interagency staff committee and were being presented to the principals 
of all three of the Federal bank supervisory agencies. 
If approved, 
the changes would be covered in the letters to banks transmitting 
condition report forms for the year-end call date. 
Except for the foreign branch reporting requirement, the 
recommended changes would also be applied to statistical reports 
other than the call report in which the affected items appeared or 
were reflected. Notification to banks reporting in other statistical 
series would be made to such banks by the Federal Reserve Banks as 
soon as appropriate reporting procedures were worked out. 

KJ I 
12/11/69 
-6-
After a discussion devoted principally to clarification of 
certain questions of a technical nature that were raised by Governor 
Mitchell, the recommendations were approved unanimously subject to 
the understanding that similar recommendations also would be approved 
by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Supplements to call report. In connection with the forth-
coming year-end call for reports of condition of State member banks, 
Messrs. Veenstra and Sigel recommended in a memorandum of December 9, 
1969, that the Board approve the use of supplements to provide informa 
tion on bank credit cards and on bank subsidiaries and affiliates. 
The proposal had been agreed upon by an interagency staff committee, 
and similar recommendations were being made to the principals of the 
other Federal bank supervisory agencies. 
It was not felt that either 
of the supplements needed to be cleared with the Bureau of the Budget. 
After discussion, the use of the two supplements in connection 
with the year-end call on State member banks was approved unanimously 
subject to the understanding that similar supplements would be used 
by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Conference on pending legislation. Governor Brimmer, who had 
left the room briefly, reported that Under Secretary of the Treasury 
Walker had advised him of a meeting to be held this afternoon in an 

3703 
12/11/69 
-7-
effort to develop an Administration position on proposed credit card 
legislation and had invited the Board to be represented at the meeting. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that it would be appropriate for 
the Board to be represented in order to provide the benefit of its 
experience. 
He suggested that Messrs. Smith and Shay be designated 
to accompany him to the meeting, and ii£ oblection was indicated. 
Disclosure of call report information. 
In the past, reports 
of condition that the Federal Reserve and the Comptroller of the 
Currency required individual banks to publish in newspapers had con-
tained the same information as appeared on the face of condition 
reports submitted to the agencies. 
That had permitted release from 
agency files of information from the face of call reports of individual 
banks without raising any question about the confidentiality of the 
information. 
(As State nonmember banks were similarly required to 
publish information from the face of the call reports under State laws, 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation also had been able to 
release information on the same basis.) The agencies had not released 
individual bank call report information not covered by newspaper pub-
lication requirements; release of such information, where made, had 
been on an aggregative basis to prevent identification of data for 
individual banks. 
However, this year's revision of call report procedures had 
provided that the report required to be published by individual banks 

» » 
O -
12/11/69 
-8-
must be a statement that included consolidated information for the 
domestic bank and its domestic subsidiaries and also for its foreign 
branches, Edge subsidiaries, and other significant foreign sub-
sidiaries. But the report of condition submitted to the supervisory 
agencies was required to be a consolidated statement covering domestic 
operations only. Therefore, release of official call report data for 
individual banks would disclose, through comparison with the published 
reports, information on foreign operations that the banks were not 
required to publish. Only some 50 or 60 banks were affected, but in 
the aggregate they accounted for roughly one-third of total commercial 
bank assets, so their elimination from the group for which information 
on domestic operations could be released would have adverse effects 
on the value of the information for many analytic uses. There was 
known to be sensitivity among the banks with respect to disclosure of 
data on their foreign operations; the problem was perhaps most acute 
for those banks with a single foreign branch or Edge corporation, for 
the accounts of a single unit would be disclosed. 
As brought out in a memorandum from Messrs. Veenstra and Sigel 
dated December 9, 1969, there appeared to be latitude for decision 
pursuant to the terms of the Freedom of Information Act, since the Act 
did not appear to require that information of the kind under considera-
tion be made available to the public upon request. 
There -were reported 
to be differences of opinion within the staffs of the banking agencies, 

o> / 
12/11/69 
-9-
in the circumstances, as to the decision that should be made. 
One 
staff member of the Comptroller's Office was known to feel strongly 
that release of such information would be desirable in order to 
facilitate analysis of domestic banking operations by analysts not 
attached to the Federal banking agencies, but an opposite view had 
been expressed within the staff of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. Within the Board's staff there was also some division of 
opinion as to the factors that should be given greatest weight. 
The Veenstra-Sigel memorandum recommended that an informal 
survey be made of the affected banks to determine their sensitivity 
to potential disclosure of foreign operations and that the results of 
the survey (that is, the views recorded by the individual banks) be 
taken into account in handling requests for the disclosure of 
information. 
Comments by Board members during a discussion of the matter 
fell on the side of favoring release, upon request, of the information 
from the face of the call reports for individual banks, as filed with 
the respective supervisory agencies, even though that meant that by 
comparison information on the aggregate foreign operations of such 
banks could be obtained by the analyst through checking with the 
published reports. 
In response to a question, Board members also 
indicated that they would not be unduly concerned about the fact that 
in some cases such a comparison would reveal information pertaining 

3706 
12/11/69 
-10-
to the operations of a unit such as a single foreign branch or Edge 
corporation. 
It was the view, however, that the banks concerned 
should be alerted to the policy proposed to be followed in responding 
to requests so that they would be on notice. 
It was also understood 
that the Board members would favor continuing not to release so-called 
"unpublished" information from the call reports of individual banks, 
including the various schedules on the back of the call report and 
information from supplementary schedules attached to specific reports 
on an ad hoc basis. 
The policy favored by the Board in responding to requests 
for information thus having been established, it was understood that 
the Board's staff would confer further with the staffs of the other 
Federal bank supervisory agencies in an effort to arrive at a uniform 
policy position. 
In this connection, reference also was made by Board members 
to the policy applicable to the furnishing of information on domestic 
branch operations and the staff was requested to give further con-
sideration to the question. 
Request for expert testimony. 
In a memorandum of December 8, 
1969, the Board was advised that Mr. Shantz, who was serving as a 
consultant, on a full-time basis, to the securities credit regulation 
function of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, had been asked 
to appear as an expert witness on behalf of the defendants in the 

12/11/69 
-11-
matter of New Amsterdam Casualty Co. v. First Penna. Co. et al. 
It appeared that several years ago a registered representative 
of a certain brokerage, firm had forged the names of payees on checks 
drawn by the firm to the order of various of its customers. 
The 
present action had been brought by the firm's fidelity insurance 
carrier, which had to make good the loss, against banks that had paid 
the checks. While a bank ordinarily was liable if it paid a check on 
a forged endorsement, the defense in the present case was based on the 
concept that the internal management of the affairs of the brokerage 
firm was negligent and not in accord with normal operating procedures, 
and that the banks were led to pay the checks as a result of such 
negligence. Mr. Shantz would be offered as an expert witness to 
testify on normal back-office procedures in a brokerage firm. 
Members of the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission 
had suggested Mr. Shantz as an expert, and a member of the Commission 
reportedly was hopeful that Mr. Shantz would appear because in his 
view too many broker/dealers were relying on their bonding companies 
to pay losses incurred because of the failure of broker/dealers to 
supervise their employees properly. 
The Board consensus was that no objection should be inter-
posed to the appearance of Mr. Shantz as an expert witness. 
It was 
noted, in this connection, that the question of use of a consultant 
as an expert witness would not ordinarily be brought to the Board's 

3708 
12/11/69 
-12-
attention; in this instance, however, the person was serving as con-
sultant on a full-time basis. 
Reasons why it. was felt that no objection should be interposed 
included the interest in the matter reportedly taken by a member and 
by the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission and also the 
fact that the Board, by virtue of its statutory responsibilities, had 
a certain interest in the proper conduct of affairs of brokerage 
houses. The trial of the present case, it was thought, might shed 
some light on standards of management that should be required in 
such firms. 
Governor Robertson expressed a minority view, stating that he 
regarded the fact that Mr. Shantz was listed as a consultant (rather 
than as an employee) as reflecting an arrangement of convenience 
rather than a distinction of substance. In his (Governor Robertson's) 
view an employee of the Board should not be engaged in testifying as 
an expert witness in private litigation of the kind here involved 
irrespective of the views of any other Government agency. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed, with 
Governor Robertson dissenting from the decision, not to interpose 
objection to the appearance of Mr. Shantz as an expert witness on 
behalf of the defendants in the trial in question. 
Foreign credit restraint program. In connection with the 
current revision of the guidelines applicable to banks and to nonbank 

3 7 0 9 
12/11/69 
-13-
financial institutions under the Board's foreign credit restraint 
program, expected to be announced shortly along with other modifi-
cations in the U.S. balance of payments program, Governor Brimmer 
referred to a plan whereby under the guidelines for nonbank financial 
institutions the special treatment accorded to long-term investments 
in Japan would be terminated in view of that country's strong reserve 
and balance of payments position. Long-term loans and investments in 
Japan after January 1, 1970, would be counted against the reporting 
institution's ceiling under the guidelines, and each institution's 
ceiling would be revised to include any such loans and investments 
held on December 31, 1969. 
(Favorable treatment under the guidelines 
applicable to banks had previously been terminated.) 
The Vice Chairman indicated that he understood such an amend-
ment of the nonbank guidelines was favored by Chairman Martin and that 
there had been negotiations with Japanese representatives by the 
Treasury and State Departments at the Assistant Secretary level. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he and the staff would be willing to 
undertake further negotiations with the Japanese as necessary. 
Members of the Board then expressed themselves as favoring 
amendment of the nonbank guidelines in the manner described by 
Governor Brimmer. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 

3710 
12/11/69 
-14-
Boston building program. 
In February 1968 the Board had 
authorized the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston to secure a site for a 
new building. 
In June^ 1969 President Morris reviewed with the Board's 
Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans the Bank's 
efforts to obtain a site containing about 259,000 square feet in a 
redevelopment area known as Dewey Square Plaza, and an estimated cost 
of $50 per square foot had been mentioned. 
The Bank now reported that it had secured options on eight of 
the nine parcels that made up the proposed site and requested approval 
to purchase those eight parcels before the first option expired on 
December 15, 1969. 
The cost would be $9,853,000 for an area of 
approximately 241,000 square feet, or about $40 per square foot. 
Also, the Bank anticipated that the ninth parcel, containing about 
17,000 square feet, could be obtained for $1,000,000 or less, so that 
the total cost of the site would be well under the June estimate of 
$50 per square foot. 
It was understood that the Bank contemplated selling or 
leasing the part of the site that would be in excess of its needs, 
and the Bank believed that its present property should sell for a 
minimum of $200 per square foot, or about $15,600,000. 
In a memorandum of December 8, 1969, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations recommended approval of the Reserve Bank's 
request. 
It also recommended that the Bank be authorized to acquire 

O J 
12/11/69 
-15-
the ninth parcel of land included in the proposed new building site 
without further discussion with the Board, provided the price was 
not in excess of $1,000,000. 
After discussion, the recommendations of the Division were 
approved unanimously. A copy of the telegram sent to the Boston Bank 
pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 3. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, and 
Hart withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Officer salaries at San Francisco. 
The Board approved 
unanimously the payment of salaries to five officers of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of San Francisco (three newly-appointed and two promoted 
in rank) effective January 1, 1970, at the respective annual rates 
fixed by the Board of Directors. A copy of the letter sent to the 
Bank pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 4. 
Staff appointment. 
The appointment of Normand R. V. Bernard, 
currently Special Assistant in the Office of the Secretary, as Assis-
tant Secretary of the Board effective January 1, 1970, with annual 
salary at the rate of $24,000, was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHI NGTO.N, 
D. 
C. 20551 
3712 
Item No. 1 
12/11/69 
ADDRESS OrriCIAL CQRREE°CNOENCE 
TO THE DDARD 
December 11, 1969. 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 7, 1969, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") to purchase 
and hold 50 per cent of the shares of a Costa Rican finance and 
leasing company ("Costa Rican company") at a cost of approximately 
$110,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Costa Rican company by BOFC is granted subject to the 
following conditions: 
(1) That BOFC shall not. hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of Costa Rican company if Costa 
Ricar company at any time fails to restrict its ac-
tivities to those permissible to a corporation in 
which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent 
of the Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, 
or if Costa Rican company establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Costa Rica or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Costa Rican company as it may re-
quire from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Costa 
Rican company be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if Costa Rican com-
pany were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

3713 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation 
(4) That Costa Rican company will confine its activities 
essentially to the leasing of property under leases 
under which Costa Rican company will recover the full 
costs of acquisition and any other expenses expected 
to be incurred by Costa Rican company during the 
lease, and that Costa Rican company shall not acquire 
property for leasing before the prospective lessee has 
executed the lease agreement. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by Costa Rican company in 
Costa Rica in the currency of that country. 
As requested in your letter of October 14, 1969, the Board 
of Governors also grants consent for BOFC to purchase and hold 40 per 
cent of the shares of a Venezuelan leasing company ("Venezuelan com-
pany") at a cost of approximately $180,000, plus an option for an 
additional 10 per cent of the shares at book value, provided an in-
vestment oJ~. approximately $90,000 is mace within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the purchase and holding of shares 
of Venezuelan company is granted subject to the same conditions and 
suspensions set forth in paragraphs two and three above, with the 
substitution of Venezuelan company and Venezuela for Costa Rican 
company and Costa Rica. 
When the proposed acquisitions are made, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of the companies. 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding 
that the investments now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of The First National Bank of Boston and its subsidiaries, and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 19 
12/11/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D„C. 
In the Matter of the, Application of 
UNITED CALIFORNIA BANK 
for approval of merger with 
El Dorado State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by United 
California Bank, Los Angeles, California, a State member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger 
of that bank and El Dorado State Bank, Napa, California, under the 
charter and name of United California Bank. As an incident to the 
merger, the office of El Dorado State Bank uould become a branch of 
the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved 
by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light 
of the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by 

the Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D.C. this n t h day of December 196S. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors Maisel and Sherrill. 
/signed/ Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY UNITED CALIFORNIA BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
EL DORADO STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
United California Bank, Los Angeles, California ("United"), 
with total deposits of $3.6 billion, has applied, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval 
of the merger of that bank with El Dorado State Bank, Napa, 
California ("Napa Bank"), which has deposits of $8 m i l l i o n . T h e 
banks would merge under the charter and name of United, which is a 
member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, 
the sole office of Napa Bank would become a branch of United, 
increasing the number of its offices to 225. 
Competition. - United operates 224 banking offices in 
35 of California's 58 counties. Napa Bank operates its sole office 
in Napa (population 35,700), the largest city in Napa County 
(population 80,700), which is about 55 miles northeast of 
San Francisco. The nearest offices of United to Napa Bank are its 
branches at Vallejo, 16 miles south of Napa, and at Santa Rosa, 
miles to the northwest of Napa. Neither bank derives a meaningful 
amount of business from the area served by the other. 
1/ Figures are as of June 30, 1969. 

- 2 -
Napa Bank, with 8.2 per cent of area deposits, is the smallest 
of five banks that operate a total of six offices in the city of Napa. 
California's largest, third largest, and fourth largest banks operate a 
total of four offices in Napa; the other banking office in Napa is a 
branch of Redwood Bank (deposits $25 million), which is headquartered 
in San Rafael. California law permits State-wide de novo branching and 
United heretofore obtained authorization to establish a new branch in 
Napa, which it later abandoned. Thus, there is some potential for the 
development of competition between United and Napa Bank, which would be 
eliminated by the merger of the two banks. 
United, the fifth largest of 149 commercial banks in California, 
holds 8.2 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the State; the 
five largest banks hold 78 per cent of such deposits. Napa Bank, with 
•02 per cent of the State's commercial bank deposits, ranks 133rd in 
this respect. 
The effect of the proposed merger on competition would be 
slightly adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The banking 
factors with respect to United are reasonably satisfactory, as they would 
be with respect to the resulting bank. The banking factors with respect 
to Napa Bank are reasonably satisfactory except for a management succes-
sion problem. Napa Bank was organized in 1964 by a group with no banking 
experience. The organizers initially obtained the services of a retired 
bank executive to operate the bank, but he retired in 1968. Since that 

3718 
-3-
time the bank has encountered difficulty in obtaining the services of a 
chief executive officer on a permanent basis. Consummation of the 
proposed merger would immediately resolve this problem. 
Convenience and needs of the community. - The effect of the 
merger on banking convenience and needs would be limited to the area 
served by Napa Bank. 
Napa is presently served by offices of three large State-wide 
banks so that it appears that the banking needs of the community are 
being adequately met. Napa Bank has concentrated on making instalment 
loans for automobiles and other consumer goods; the bank has made no 
effort to offer a reasonable complement of commercial banking services. 
The replacement of Napa Bank by an office of United would provide an 
additional source of full banking services for the city of Napa. 
Summary and conclusion. - In the judgement of the Board, the 
merger would have only a slightly adverse effect on competition; at the 
same time, it would provide a ready solution for the management succes-
sion problem of Napa Bank and benefit the banking convenience and needs 
of the Napa community. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
be approved. 
December 11, 1969. 

3719 
CONCURRING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
IN WHICH GOVERNOR ROBERTSON JOINS 
I concur in the conclusion of my colleagues that the application 
in this case should be approved; I also agree with their characterization 
of the probable effect of the merger on competition as slightly adverse. 
However, I do not agree that there are probable benefits under the con-
venience and needs factor, per se, that ought to be treated as weighing 
in favor of approval. 
It is true that the replacement of Napa Bank by an office of 
United will provide an additional source of full banking services for the 
city of Napa, but the loss of Napa Bank to the community is not necessary 
to achieve that end. As my colleagues noted, California law permits State-
wide de novo branching. Yet, they did not stress a point to which I attach 
considerable weight: during the calendar year 1968 and to date in 1969, 
United received authorization to establish a total of 16 d£ novo branches, 
including six in northern California. 
More particularly, on February 27, 1968, the Board approved an 
application by United to establish a de novo branch in Napa, only two-
tenths of a mile from Napa Bank; the expiration date of the authority was 
set at February 27, 1969. The site for the proposed branch was acquired 
by United in March,1968. On February 12, 1969, United requested an ex-
tension of its authority to establish the branch, which was granted, and 
the new expiration date was set at August 27, 1969. However, by letter 
of June 25, 1969, United surrendered its authority to establish a branch 
in Napa, alleging as the reason for its action that a review of the 

o / 
-2-
banking market situation in Napa showed that the community would not 
support an additional banking office. The agreement between United and 
Napa Bank to merge is dated March 18, 1969. In the circumstances, I 
cannot accept the reason-proffered by United for abandoning its authority 
to establish a branch in Napa. 
In my judgment, the sole justification for approving the merger 
of United and Napa Bank lies in the desirability of a prompt resolution 
of the management succession problem of Napa Bank, a problem which I 
conclude the bank probably cannot resolve in the near future except 
through merger. 
It would be preferable from the standpoint of banking 
competition, of course, if Napa Bank merged with a bank other than one of 
the State's largest and, manifestly, one of the most likely entrants into 
the Napa market by the establishment of a de novo branch. Accordingly, 
I conclude that approval of the application in this case is warranted 
only by the slimmest margin. 
December 11, 1969. 

Item No. 3 
12/11/69 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D 
W I R E S E R V I C E 
0 
> r 
'» 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
December 11, 1969. 
Morris - Boston 
; i ' >•'• i .' i 
" . ; . „ . 
. 
• 
Reurlet December 3, Board approves expenditures of $9,853,000 for 
purpose cited therein. Board also authorizes acquisition of final 
item described in your letter, without further discussion with the 
Board, providing price does not exceed $1,000,000. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FORRESTAL 

b o a r d 
d f 
g o v e r n o r s 
• r 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
3722 
Item No. 4 
12/11/69 
ADDRTSS OFFICIAL C Q R R Z S F- • N D C N C E 
TO THE H OARD 
December 11, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (PR) 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco listed 
below for the calendar vear 1970: 
Name 
Donald V. Hasten 
Richard G. Lambert 
Warrea H. Kutchins 
Robert C. Johnsen 
Martin S. Pepper 
Title 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Cashier 
Assistant Vice President-
Examining Officer 
Annua 1 
Sa la ry 
— K -
$21,500 
17,500 
15,000 
19,000 
18,500 
These salaries are at the rates fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of November 8, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
