Minutes for July 25, 
'a : i 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 25, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
m 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
'Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, Sidman, and Lyon, 
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Heyde, Noble, Plotkin, Sanders, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Eisenbeis, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, Hill, Maguire, and 
Sanford of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 

281 
7/25/68 
-2-
Application of Bank of America (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association, San Francisco, California, amending the Board's 
letter of consent of February 29, 1968, relating to the acquisition 
°f shares of a new commercial bank in Morocco. A copy of the letter 
now approved is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
Posed merger of Central Carolina Bank and Trust Company, Durham, North 
Carolina, with Carolina Bank and Trust Company, Denton, North Carolina, 
W a s approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The 
conclusion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated 
July 
23, 1968, there had been distributed a draft of policy record 
entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on 
April 30, 1968. It was proposed to release the entry to the press on 
Monday, July 29, and the entry was now being submitted for final review 
by 
the Board. The draft had been approved by the Board on June 28 and 
subsequently distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents, from whom no 
further suggestions had been received. 
The release of the entry to the press on July 29 was approved 
Unanimously. 

7/25/68 
-3-
Application of Commerce Bancshares (Items 2 and 3). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's action on July 8, 1968, approving the application of Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, which owned more than 90 per 
cent of the voting shares of Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City, 
Missouri, to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Chariton County Exchange 
Bank, Brunswick, Missouri, Citizens Bank of Joplin, Joplin, Missouri, 
and The Citizens Bank, Springfield, Missouri. 
!>t». t-
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
c°pies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 2 and 3. 
Application of Otto Bremer Foundation. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated July 11, 1968, from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, with other pertinent papers, regarding 
t h e application of Otto Bremer Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota, to 
acquire additional shares of American National Bank and Trust Company, 
a l s o °f St. Paul. The Division recommended approval. 
Applicant, a charitable foundation, currently owned 1.26 per 
C e nt of American National Bank and Trust Company's outstanding shares. 
under the present proposal it would acquire an additional 11.63 per 
cent of the bank's shares in exchange for all of the shares (9.07 per 
cent) it now owned of the Jacob Schmidt Company. As a result of 

7/25/68 
- 4 -
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act, Otto Bremer Foundation 
became a bank holding company on July 1, 1966, and the proposed exchange 
°f stock had been chosen as a way in which the Foundation could divest 
itself of ownership in the Jacob Schmidt Company, which was neither a 
bank nor a bank holding company nor a company exempt under section 4(c) 
°f the Act. 
Staff comments were followed by a discussion during which cer-
iUfSIJ-
tain points regarding the holdings of Otto Bremer Foundation were 
clarified. The application was then approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Hearing under Bank Holding Company Act (Item No. 4). As 
noted in a memorandum dated July 22, 1968, from the Legal Division, 
°tto Bremer Company and its parent, Otto Bremer Foundation, St. Paul, 
Minnesota, both registered bank holding companies, had filed an appli-
St-
ation for a determination that the activities planned to be undertaken 
b y several proposed nonbanking subsidiaries were of the kind described 
section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act so as to make 
inappiicabie the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act, respecting the 
acquisition or retention of shares in nonbanking companies. Since the 
* 
''J'C'" 
A; • 
c t requires that such determinations be made on the basis of the 
record made at a hearing, tentative arrangements had been made for a 
hearing to be held on August 21, 1968, at the Federal Reserve Bank of 

O / 
1/25/68 
-5-
Mmneapolis. The Civil Service Commission had selected Leonard J. 
Ralston of the Small Business Administration as hearing examiner. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of hearing order. 
The issuance of the order was authorized. A copy of the 
°rder, in the form in which it was transmitted to the Federal Register 
for publication, is attached as Item No. 4. Roland D. Graham, General 
Counsel of the Minneapolis Reserve Bank, was designated as Board 
counsel for the proceeding. 
Report on Housing and Urban Development Act (Item No. 5). In 
3 mem°randum dated July 24, 1968, Mr. Cardon indicated that the Bureau 
the Budget had requested by telephone the Board's views on S. 3497, 
t h it 
e 
Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968." It was pointed out 
that the bill was complex and covered a variety of subjects. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter that would 
recommend approval of the bill by the President but express reserva-
t i 0 n s re§arding the provisions that would grant greater latitude to 
national banks in making real estate loans and greater flexibility to 
avings and loan associations in raising and investing funds. 
Governor Maisel said he believed it would be appropriate 
imPly to say, for the record, that the Board recommended that the 
esident approve the bill, while Governor Robertson expressed the 
hop^ 
. , 
nat the letter would not imply that the Board was necessarily 
l n accord with all of the bill's provisions. 

fy • * > ') 
7/25/68 
-6-
After agreement upon changes in the draft in light of the 
comments by Governors Robertson and Maisel, a letter was approved 
unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 5. 
Accounting practices relating to goodwill. The Board had 
asked the staff to look into questions of accounting that had arisen 
connection with acquisitions by Edge corporations and bank holding 
companies. The results of the study were set forth in two memoranda 
dated July 22, 1968, one a summary and the other in detail, from a 
group comprised of Messrs. Solomon, Hexter, Dahl, and Sidman. 
The broad question related to the acceptability of goodwill 
a s a continuing asset value in banking. The present Board practice 
followed also by the other Federal bank supervisory agencies) of not 
Permitting the cost of goodwill to be reflected among bank resources 
W a s reviewed in light of current developments. It was pointed out 
that generally accepted accounting principles applicable to nonbanks 
require recognition of the cost of goodwill in all cases where the 
c°nsideration given involves the payment of cash or cash equivalents. 
i 
' f 
••• « . - 
< „ ,• .<.->>-••-• 
- 
v-.-
IT 
Never, acquisitions of assets or investments in subsidiaries accom-
plished through an issuance of equity securities are accounted for as 
3 
| | 
^ 
Pooling of interests" and the fair value of assets transferred, 
deluding any related goodwill, is not recorded. 
The recommendation of the majority of the study group was to 
Coritinue the present Board practice. However, since the practice was 

281 
7/25/68 
-7-
at variance with generally accepted accounting principles applicable 
to nonbanks, and because the practice was common to other Federal bank 
supervisory agencies, the study group suggested that the Board might 
wish to have the question considered by the Coordinating Committee on 
Bank Regulation. 
The recommendation reflected the first of three alternatives 
set out in the detailed memorandum as follows: 
(A) Maintain present policy of requiring immediate 
write-off of the goodwill amount against the bank's capi-
tal accounts. This will result in carrying investments in 
subsidiaries at an amount no greater than the parent's 
proportionate share in the net assets of the subsidiaries. 
Bank assets would remain essentially tangible in nature. 
Bank balance sheets denominated on such a comparable stan-
dard would continue to be an important and meaningful 
measure of a bank's worth, since a great majority of bank 
resources revolve to realization over a relatively short 
period of time. This policy would not prevent recogni-
tion of the fair value of tangible assets purchased, e.g., 
bank premises. 
(B) Adopt the generally accepted accounting nonbank 
Practice of recognizing the cost of purchased goodwill as 
a continuing asset value, but require an amortization 
policy to write off the account within some specified rea-
sonable time. Elimination of goodwill value through sys-
tematic, but nevertheless arbitrary, charges against income 
is subject to some of the same questions that attach to the 
immediate write-off practice. If it seems inequitable to 
discount immediately part of the cost of assets acquired, 
it would also appear inconsistent to report a reduced rate 
earnings (after amortization) from assets purchased at 
a premium. 
(C) Follow generally accepted nonbank accounting prin-
ciples for purchased goodwill. Amortization, if adopted, 
would be within the discretion of bank management. Super-
visory appraisal of goodwill would be needed periodically 
after date of purchase to assure realistic carrying values, 
and it is not clear what standards would be applied in such 
appraisal. 

7/25/68 
-8-
Mr. Sidman summarized the rationale underlying the majority 
staff recommendation, after which Mr. Dahl explained why he dissented . 
and believed alternative (C) would be the better course. Mr. Solomon 
offered supplemental comments in support of the majority view. 
Governor Mitchell expressed agreement with Mr. Dahl's analysis. 
J 
He thought that integrity of accounts was accomplished only through 
ma 4 
maximum disclosure and that it was not appropriate to encourage con-
cealment of assets. He believed that more truth in reporting was 
needed, to provide adequate knowledge of what banks were earning and 
what their assets werp. worth, and that continuation of the present 
Practice would represent a retrogression. He could not see that any-
°ne would be injured by including on a bank's balance sheet a judg-
ment item labeled goodwill. Therefore, he had no doubt but that (C) 
W a s t h e best alternative. He thought (B) would create more problems 
than it solved and would rather turn to (A) or (C), but he much pre-
ferred (C). He had found the staff memorandum useful in setting forth 
t h e issues. 
Governor Maisel agreed that the memorandum was useful. How-
eVp Y j 
r> it appeared to assume, without explanation, that what was 
aPpropriate for banks was also appropriate for bank holding companies 
Edge corporations. He disagreed with the contention that certain 
arguments advanced for the current practice with respect to banks were 
q u a l ly valid with respect to bank holding companies. In particular, 

O f 
7/25/68 
-9-
he did not regard the liquidity argument as pertinent to either bank 
holding companies or Edge corporations. He suggested that it might 
be feasible to adopt alternative (C) with respect to bank holding 
companies and Edge corporations, and to shift away from alternative 
(A) for banks if agreement could be reached with the other supervisory 
agencies. 
Governor Sherrill said that, while the issue was finely bal-
anced, he did not believe different practices should be followed for 
holding companies and Edge corporations from those used for banks. 
TH 
e similarities were too great, and charges of preferential treatment 
from the banks would be invited. He suggested that the other super-
visory agencies be asked to review the several alternatives. In his 
° W n v i e w alternative (C) had some merit and should be laid before the 
other agencies, but the balance was close enough to make it important 
t o establish a common position. 
Governor Robertson agreed that neither bank holding companies 
n°r Edge corporations should be treated differently from banks. He 
did n°t think the practices with respect to banks should be changed 
Unless the change applied to all banks at the same time, and that 
necessitated seeking agreement among the several supervisory agencies. 
He 
Personally favored alternative (A) and would not want to adopt a 
Policy that would bring water into the accounting structures of any 
f the several types of institutions. Although the present policy 
W a s conservative, it worked. 

7/25/68 
-io-
Chairman Martin said that he was inclined to favor alternative 
(A) unless the other agencies were willing to adopt (C). He suggested 
that the present practices (embodied in alternative (A)) be continued 
temporarily and that the over-all question be referred to the Coordi-
nating Committee on Bank Regulation. 
The suggested procedure was approved. Governors Mitchell and 
Maisel dissenting. 
Cleveland computer purchase (Item No. 6). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated July 22, 1968, from the Division of 
federal Reserve Bank Operations regarding a request by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland for approval of the purchase of a Burroughs 
~3500 computer that had been rented by the Bank since February 1968. 
Board regulations did not require the submission of such proposals 
f o r approval, but the Bank had done so in recognition of the desire 
t 0 avoid nonessential outlays for the present, and specifically in 
l«ht of the Board's recent letter requesting budget reductions. 
The rental contract provided that if the purchase option on 
the 
computer should be exercised within 12 months, 70 per cent of 
s Paid during the first 6 months and 40 per cent of rentals 
during the second 6 months would apply to the purchase price. 
In order t-
maxiraize savings, a s calculated according to the expected 
Use£ul l i f A 
. , 
0 £ t h e equipment, the Bank would like to exercise the 
hase option prior to the 6-month deadline. However, the Division 

2f]2 Q 
7/25/68 
-11-
felt that deferral of the purchase until January 1969 would be in 
keeping with recent Board action on Reserve Bank and Board budgets. 
Attached was a draft of telegram that would state that the Board 
felt that the purchase should be delayed until January 1969. 
During discussion Governors Mitchell and Maisel expressed 
themselves in favor of authorizing the purchase, thus permitting the 
saving involved through the transfer payment, whereas the other Board 
members indicated that they would go along with the recommendation of 
the Divi sion, which was in line with the current general policy 
Posture with regard to deferrable expenditures. 
The telegram was thereupon approved, Governors Mitchell and 
Maisei dissenting. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
Atlanta staff changes; question re moving expenses (Items 7-9). 
There had been distributed a memorandum dated July 23, 1968, from the 
division of Personnel Administration recommending approval of salaries 
f°r certain officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta at the 
r a t e s fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
In addition, since three of the officer assignments involved 
transfers from one office of the Bank to another, the Bank had raised 
inf 
ormally the question whether the Board would object to reimburse-
6 n t t o the officers concerned for part of their moving expenses. In 
case the move was to be made at the request of the Bank. 
The memorandum noted that the same question had been raised 
f r 
time to time by a number of the other Reserve Banks. After study, 

KfT'^tCz) 
7/25/68 
-12-
the Division recommended that the Atlanta Reserve Bank be allowed to 
reimburse for certain expenses, as listed in the memorandum. 
It sug-
gested also that if the Board approved this recommendation the other 
Reserve Banks be notified accordingly and the Presidents' Conference 
he requested to study the question of reimbursement for relocation 
expenses in order to develop recommendations for a reasonable and 
. * V-" 
... 
consistent practice to be followed by all Reserve Banks. 
A * 
After discussion the recommendations were approved unanimously. 
Pursuant to this action letters were sent to the Federal Reserve Bank 
o f Atlanta 
in the form attached as Item No. 7, to the other Federal 
Reserve Banks in the form attached as Item No. 8, and to the Chairman 
the Conference of Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 9. 
Officer salary proposals from New York Bank (Item No. 10). 
Governor Mitchell referred to the suggestion at the Board meeting on 
J u ly 15, 1968, that he talk with President Hayes of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York about the fact that the Bank's requests for 
approval of officer salaries were frequently not received by the 
Board in time for action prior to the dates when the salaries were to 
become effective. Governor Mitchell described the tenor of his 
conversation with President Hayes, which had not resulted in a meeting 
the minds. Therefore he had had prepared a draft of letter to 
.resident Hayes, which he read to the other members of the Board. 
u V • v' "'.'' ' ' ' 
The sending of the letter was approved unanimously. A copy 
" • • i1 • > - • • 
l s attached as Item No. 10. 

7/25/68 
-13-
Th e meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: In the absence of 
Governor Sherrill, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board on 
July 24, 1968, the following items: 
C iu » 
Memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
July 23, 1968, recommending that Paul R. Moo of South Bend, Indiana, 
S. c. Patterson of Washington, D. C., be appointed as consultants 
connection with the preparation of a revised draft of truth in 
lending regulation, with compensation at the rate of $90 per day. 
Memorandum from the Division of Administrative Services recommend 
l n8 an increase in the basic annual salary of Vera V. Dulin, Telephone 
Operator in that Division, from $5,994 to $6,174, retroactive to 
J u ly 14, 1968. 
Governor Sherrill today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
-Salary increase 
Evelyn S. Reynolds, Graphic Illustrator, Division of Data Process 
lng> from $5,145 to $5,732 per annum, effective July 28, 1968. 
•^ceptance of resignation 
Clarence Jones, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business July 23, 1968. 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
^LJuly 24. 1968 
Bv u 
-^L^he Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Item No. 
Jitter to Camden Trust Company, Camden, 
11 
w Jersey, approving the establishment 
an in-town branch. 

2 8 3 1 
i n, 
7/25/68 
-14-
On,July 24, 1968 
Jty thg Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Item No. 
Letter to Bancorporation of Montana, Great 
12 
Falls, Montana, granting an extension of 
time within which to acquire shares of 
four banks in Montana. 
frLJuly 25, 1968 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
13 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, approving 
the establishment of a branch in Charlotte. 
ib^the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to First State Bank of Salina, Salina, 
14 
tah, waiving the requirement of six months' 
notice of withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
7/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 25, 1968. 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Savings Association, 
300 Montgomery Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentl emen: 
In response to the request contained in your letter 
of July 9, 1968, the Board of Governors amends the relevant 
portion of the first sentence of its letter of consent of 
February 29, 1968, relating to the acquisition of shares of 
a new commercial bank in Morocco to read: 11. . 
at a cost 
of approximately $400,000, . . ..» i n all other respects 
that letter of consent remains unaltered. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understand-
ing that the investment now being approved will be made within 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint 
effort now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and 
investment activities of your bank, Bank of America, New York, 
and Bamerical International Financial Corporation, and that 
ue consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Hh> 
m. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
" M M ^ l y a . J , 
•v 
- 
' ^ ' • 

Item No. 2 
7/25/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
^ 8 3 3 
In ^ e Matter of the Application of 
^MMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
*ansas City, Missouri, 
f o 
tj°^k
apPr°val of action to become a 
ac
n .^^ing company through the 
o f
q^ s i tion of 80 per cent or more 
Cou
 
v°ting shares of Chariton 
Mis
 
Exchar*ge Bank, Brunswick, 
J0pi?Ur1, Citizens Bank of Joplin, 
Ba , n' Missouri, and The Citizens 
K> Springfi eld, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
Secti 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
° n 3(a)(l) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
')(!)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CI 
Clt 
\ 12 cp^ jj 
222.3( a)), an application by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansai 
APPU 
Missouri, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
C 3 n t vould become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 P e r cent or more of the voting shares of the following three 
b*nks i n M Missouri: Chariton County Exchange Bank, Brunswick; Citizens 
B a n k of JoPlin, Joplin; and The Citizens Bank, Springfield. Applicant 
Pteseritl y owns more than 90 per cent of the voting shares of Commerce 
Trust C°rapany, Kansas City, Missouri. 

Zfi'S'l 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the . 
Commissioner of Finance for the State of Missouri of receipt of the appli-
° a t i o n a n d requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
recommended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
F e d e r a l Agister on February 10, 1968 (33 Federal Register 2873), which 
Pr°vided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
8 with respect to the proposed acquisition. A copy of the applica-
i 0 n w a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
n®ideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a U th 
nose received have been considered by the Board. 
It is hereby ordered, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
J J T A T 
e®ent of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than thr 
e months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
e d for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
fM «-
1ty pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 25th day of July, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action. Governors Mitchell, Maisel, 
Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

^835 
Item No. 2 
7/25/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, TO BECOME A 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
i 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
C°mpany Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
^ank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
the v°ting shares of Chariton County Exchange Bank, Brunswick ("Brunswick 
Bank")» Citizens Bank of Joplin, Joplin ("Joplin Bank"), and The Citizens 
Bank> Springfield ("Springfield Bank"), all in the State of Missouri. 
Applicant presently controls Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City, 
Mis 
ssouri ("Commerce Bank"), which had total deposits of $543.3 million as 
°f Member 30, 1967." 
Springfield Bank, with deposits of $55.9 million, 
S the largest of the proposed new subsidiaries; Joplin Bank and Brunswick 
have deposits of $9,7 million and $3.7 million, respectively. Each 
of t. 
n e banks has but one office, branch banking being prohibited in 
Hi 
Ss°uri; Commerce Bank and Joplin Bank, however, each operates the 
§ l e Umited -service facility which the law permits. 
A ll banking data are as of this date unless otherwise noted. 

-2-
£ 8 3 6 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the application was given 
toj and views and recommendation requested of, the Commissioner of Finance 
c r the State of Missouri. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPPlication. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
m<>nopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
m°nopoli2e or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part* £ 
the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisi-
*"0n the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substan-
*ally to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which 
a n y other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board 
n d s that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are 
U a r l y outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the 
n°action in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be 
served • In each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
the f < 
nancial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holdin 8 company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs 
of t. e community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The present proposal 
V°uld b 
°ring together, under Applicant's ownership, four banks located in 
graphically distinct and economically diverse areas of Missouri. 
The 
clo8est f 
°t the four are Joplin Bank and Springfield Bank, which are over 

2837 
-3-
^ wiles apart. Commerce Bank is over 160 miles from Joplin Bank, about 
170 wiles from Springfield Bank, and 90 miles from Brunswick Bank. 
Commerce Bank is the largest commercial bank in the Kansas City 
Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SMSA"), a growing, economically 
*v£rsifi.eci area comprised of four counties in Missouri and two counties 
11 K a n s as. 
Population of the area is presently over 1,2 million, and its 
°n0rnic b a s e has shifted over time from a concentration in agriculturally 
lated industries to a fairly even distribution among several major 
Ustries. Commerce Bank's deposits represent 10 per cent of the aggregate 
° t a l ^ePosits held by 123 banks in the SMSA and about 25 per cent of the 
* ^eP°sits held by 56 commercial banks in Jackson County, Commerce 
Bank,s , 
home office county and the core county of the SMSA. The second and 
tlUrd 1 
Aargest banks in the area hold 12 per cent and 11 per cent of SMSA 
^ePosit 
s and 16 per cent and 15 per cent of Jackson County deposits, respec-
tively 
nc i 
vt the 13 largest banks in the SMSA, 10 are located in Jackson 
C°unty. 
The City of Springfield, the primary service area of Springfield 
l s located in Greene County, and is a rapidly growing city with a 
of about 115,000. Springfield Bank is the second largest of 
banks i n Springfield; in addition, four smaller banks are located 
itl °ther 
Parts of the County. Springfield Bank accounts for about 26 per 
^iij^r 
the^ " p r i m a r y service area", as used herein, refers to the area from 
i n v°l v ed derives at least 75 per cent of its deposits of 
K A s e v
a 
partnerships, and corporations ("IPC deposits"). 
SifteSs
enth S p r i nSfield bank, First City Bank of Springfield, opened for 
0r* June 3, I960. 

2 G 3 8 
«4-
c e n t 
the total deposits in Springfield, and about 25 per cent of the 
total deposits held by the 10 commercial banks in Greene County. 
The City of Joplin, in Jasper County, appears to be on the verge 
o f 
Srowth after years of economic readjustment and population stability. A 
e c U n e of the area*s lead mining industry beginning in the postwar years 
utltil now been barely offset by the opening of several chemical and 
Manufacturing plants, and the area's population of about 40,000 ie but 
1 , 0 0 0 0 V e r the 1950 figure. The city presently has two urban renewal pro-
-ams underway inthe downtown area, however, and appears to have overcome 
110 Problems resulting from its declining mining industry. Joplin Bank 
th 
e second largest of 5 banks in Joplin, its primary service area, and 
fourth largest of 12 banks in Jasper County. It is about one-fifth 
as ia 
r£e as the First National Bank of Joplin, which is by far the largest 
bat^ i Joplin and Jasper County. 
Brunswick is a small (1,400 population) r u ral community, the 
0iny o f which is almost totally dependent on agriculture. Its population 
de 
e c U n e d about 15 per cent since 1950. Brunswick Bank is the only 
al bank located in the community and its primary service area, 
abends about 10 miles to the west, north, and south of Brunswick 
itl charif 
A Con County. Five other banks are located in the county outside the 
PXi
^y 
aer, « 
at-rvice area. Two of these, with aggregate deposits of $10 million, 
iaries 
a registered bank holding company and account for 49 
Per C e 
°f county deposits; Brunswick Bank holds 19 per cent of such 

Missouri's 10 largest banking organizations (uhich include 
0 n e °f the State's three registered bank holding companies) have aggre-
2ate deposits of $4.1 billion, about 41 per cent of the deposits held 
by 
656 insured commercial banks in the State. Upon consummation of its 
Proposal, Applicant would rank third among the State's banking organiza-
tions, the same position it now holds by virtue of its ownership of 
Commerce Bank, and would increase its control of the State's total commer-
bank deposits from 5.4 per cent to 6.1 per cent. The two largest 
banking organizations in the State, both of which are St. Louis banks, hold 
^ Per cent and 0.5 per cent, respectively. 
Analysis of concentration in Missouri, and particularly in the 
Fa 
sas City SI IS A, is complicated to some extent by the prevalence of chain 
atl^ingj i.e., common individual control of banks, in those areas, Appli-
a n t itself has large individual stockholders who also have large holdings 
other banks in the Kansas City area. In determining the competitive 
Plications of the present proposal, the Board has considered the effects 
of t. 
s e relationships, but has concluded that they are without compelling 
signift 
seance in the present case. Since Applicant already controls 
Co 
erce Bank, the only Kansas City bank involved in this case, neither 
rPorate nor individual ownership of banks in that area would be further 
"•rated by consummation of the proposal. Nor, giving similar consid-
erati0 n to these common holdings by individuals,would State-wide concentra-
tio 
n b e significantly affected by such consummation. 
Further^Applicant's 
oiders do not control banks in any of the areas served by the three 
PtoPosed subsidiary banks. 

-6-
Although Commerce Bank is an active State-wide competitor for 
^respondent balances and for the business of customers who require the 
services of a large banking institution, it derives only a negligible 
a m° U n t o f business from the three counties in which the proposed subsid-
i a r i e s a r e located. None of the latter banks derives any significant 
mount of business from outside its home office county. 
Consummation of 
PPUcant's proposal would not eliminate significant competition between 
Qtly 0f j., 
cne banks involved. Moreover, the distance between the banks, the 
legai 
u 
Prohibition against branching, and the differences in the size and 
e offerings of the four banks indicate little likelihood that 
Potential 
competition would be affected. 
The principal competitive effect foreseen as a probable result 
of 
summation of Applicant's proposal is a strengthening of the compet-
it:lve ai3ll . 
m t y and expansion of the services offered by the three proposed 
S U b sidi a r^ 
i e s» particularly Joplin Bank and Brunswick Bank. Since none 
°f the nr 
v oposed subsidiaries is a dominant institution in its service area, 
such an 
®ffect would appear likely to stimulate competition in the relevant 
hout undue adverse consequences on competing banks. 
the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that the 
PtoPosed t r n 
tansaction will not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 
combination, conspiracy, or attemnt to monopolize the business of 
n k H In any relevant area, and will not substantially lessen competition, 
nd to c create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section of the country. 
of 

2841 
-7-
Financial arid managerial resources and future prospects, -
Applicant was organized in 1966 and acquired its present subsidiary, 
Commerce Bank, in 1967. Its financial condition, reflecting the condi-
tion of Commerce Bank, is sound. Applicant's management, which is drawn 
Primarily from Commerce Bank, is experienced and the prospects of both 
a r e considered favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Springfield Bank 
a r e satisfactory and its prospects are considered favorable whether or 
n°t the present application is approved. However, the imminent retire-
ment of senior management and the absence of qualified successors at both 
^°plin Bank and Brunswick Bank present problems which affiliation with 
Applicant coi.'.d solve. New and expanded services proposed by Applicant 
should also enhance the future prospects of the latter two banks. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that consid-
ra^ions relating to this factor, as they pertain to Applicant, Commerce 
BQQL 
» and Springfield Bank, are consistent with approval of the applica-
As they relate to Joplin Bank and Brunswick Bank, such considera-
te 
s provide some weight in favor of approval. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The banking 
of 
o r the individuals and businesses located in the area served by 
Co 
^Grce Bank appear to be adequately served at present. It is unlikely 
that consummation of Applicant's proposal will lead to any significant 
additl 
ions to, or improvements upon, the services which Commerce Bank is now 
Qble ho 
c to provide. 

2842 
-8-
Vigorous competition among banks in the Springfield area has 
^PPlied the public i n t h a t a r e a „ i t h c o n v e n i e n t a n d r e a s o n a b l y 
c o m p l e t e 
b a n k l n g S e r v i c e s - 
^ 
t 0 the extent that acquisition by A p p l i c a n t 
W W enhance such competition and permit Springfield Bank to offer a 
Sweater depth of specialized services to a growing industrial and commer-
' l a l C O n m u n i t y ' the proposed transaction would have little effect upon 
t h e convenience or needs of that community. 
Joplin Bank appears to be serving the banking needs of its 
community to the extent that its limited size will permit. The competing 
N a t i o n a l B a n k Q f J o p U n > h o w e v c r > p r e s e [ ) t i y h a s ^ 
g e r i o u s 
^
^ 
t l 0« in providing trust services or in serving the larger corporate 
QcCOUnts In t-U 
the area. Consummation of the proposal would facilitate an 
®xPansion of the services offered by Joplin Bank, and would provide 
8 needed alternative source of banking services for larger businesses in 
trie are 
a, particularly for credit necessary to foster the economic resurgence 
1 the — 
area. 
f 
The Brunswick community is presently without the services of a 
- s ° m c e commercial bank. Brunswick Bank, the only bank in the 
0lt®unitv „ f t 
f e r s n 0 t i m e a n d s a v i n6* accounts, consumer instalment loans, 
resid 
has
 
C n 
° r C 0 , r m e r C i a l m o " S a g e loans. Its loans-to-deposits ratio 
th a n
a V C r a S C d °" l y " 
P 6 r C C n t ° V C r t h G P 3 S t £ e W y e a r S " c°ns"erably lower 
0 f 
° f ° t h C r b a " k S ° f S i m U a r d e P ° S i t S i Z G " 
a D d U S 
l e n d i n C 
H m i t 
t>eed
 
, 0 0° i S b 0 l i C V e d t o b e s o m e handicap in serving the farm credit 
( a
 
3 ° f t h ° c o ™u n i t y . Particularly in view of the trend toward larger 
^ 
units 
. ,. 
• Applicant has indicated its intention, in the event its 

aPplication is approved, to provide complete banking services to the 
community, and, as a subsidiary of Applicant, Brunswick Bank would be 
better able to meet aforementioned larger and more complicated credit 
requirements of the larger farm units in its area. 
Considerations bearing on the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served lend additional weight in favor of approval of 
the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record and in the light of the factors set forth in 
Section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board!s judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application 
8h°uld be approved. 
J u lV 25, 1968. 

284' 
Item No. 4 
7/25/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NOTICE OF REQUEST AND ORDER FOR HEARING 
PURSUANT TO SECTION 4(c)(0) OF THE 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT OF 1956 
Notice is hereby given that request has been made to the Board 
0 J 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to section 4(c)(3) 
0 f fche Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(3)) and 
S e C t i o n 222.4(a) of the Boardfs Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), by Otto 
reBler c°mpany and Otto Bremer Foundation, St. Paul, Minnesota, both 
£*stered bank holding companies, for a determination that the planned 
active 
Lies of their proposed non-banking subsidiaries, The State Agency 
of R e d 
o d Falls, Inc., The American State Insurance Agency, Inc., The 
8ahanka Insurance Agency, Inc., The Elk Valley Agency, Inc., and The 
Citi2e 
insurance Agency, Inc., are of the kind described in the afore-
0tled sections of the Act and the Regulation so as to make it unnec-
essary f 
ior the prohibitions of section 4 of the Act v;ith respect to the 
* C q u i s i t w or retention of shares in non-banking organizations to apply 
itl °*der 
carry out the purposes of the Act. 
Inasmuch as section 4(c)(8) of the Act requires that any deter-
lfclon F 
ati<j 
*ination Pursuant thereto be made by the Board after due notice and hearing 
the basis of the record made at such hearing, 

2845 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act and in accordance with section 222.4(a) and 
222.5(a) of the Board's Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a), 222.5(a)), pro-
mulgated under the Bank Holding Company Act, a hearing vith respect to 
this matter be held commencing on August 21, 1968, at 10:00 a.m., at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, before a 
^ea*ing examiner selected by the Civil Service Commission, pursuant to 
Section 3344 of Title 5 of the United States Code, such hearing to be 
c°nducted according to the Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings of the 
B°ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (12 CFR Part 263). The 
r*ght is reserved to the Board or such hearing examiner to designate any 
date or place for such hearing or any part thereof which may be 
etermined to be necessary or appropriate for the convenience of the 
part 4 
les« 
The Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings provide, in 
» that "All such hearings shall be private and shall be attended only 
P a r t ies and their representatives or counsel, representatives of the 
Boa^ 
> Witnesses, and other persons having an official interest in the 
Ceedings: provided, however, that, on written request by a party or 
t e n t a t i v e of the Board, or on the Board's own motion, the Board, 
uMes s 
he 
u M e S s Prohibited by law, may permit other persons to attend or may order 
ar*ng to be public." 
Any person desiring to give testimony in this proceeding should 
6 V i t h the Secretary of the Board, directly or through the Federal 

V 
V T,( ., _ 
' V 
' 
,
V
. 
»• 
•'» JU' 
2846 
-3-
*?ff*ve Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, on or before 
1 
August 16, 1963, a written request containing a statement of the nature 
^ 
'J • 
. 
the petitioner's interest in the proceeding and a summary of the 
Otters concerning uhich said petitioner \tfishes to give testimony. Such 
tequest will be presented to the designated hearing examiner for his 
e*mination. Persons submitting timely requests will be notified of 
tfle ^earing examiner's decision. 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 25th day of July, 1968. 
'! tj 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Jo,-, 
i v ; 
1 ' M^i'l 
.... ; 
J , 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
' 
* it. 
1
;
, 
. ' V-' 
V
'
. 
F K S » YT * 
'JV.'M 
*: 

2847 
LiC 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 5 
7/25/68 
O F F I C E 
O F 
T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
July 29, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
^reau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
>•'*•>• IT t 
D e a* Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for the Board's 
1968" ° n S' 3 4 9 7 ' t H e " H o u s i n 8 a n d U r b a n Development Act of 
• 
There is much in the bill that is outside the area 
^ 
t he Board's direct responsibilities, and we have some 
eservations about those provisions of the bill that relate 
directly to our responsibilities. 
bin 
More importantly, however, other provisions of the 
ho 
n e w a n d constructive approaches to meeting the 
using needs of low and moderate income families and effecting 
th 
m e n t S i n tlie s e c o n d a r y mortgage market. On balance, 
e Board recommends that the bill be approved. 
Sincerely, 

2 8 4 8 
T
E
L
E
G
R
A
M 
6 
LEASED WIRE SERVICE 
//ZD/DO 
• ii »t*">»'*»;, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
July 25, 1968. 
Attn,";. 
Ov; , .. >v-
HlCKMAN - CLEVELAND 
1968 u 
°> but feels that* in light of current economic situation, such 
S. 
c. ^ ... 
Purchase should be delayed until January 1969. 
br I 
t^'.., 
^ 
FI. 
V 
. 
'i- ' '"M: 
• Ca: : 
Board has noted without objection your Bank's intention to purchase 
: l a 
f 
' 
' 
Burroughs B-3500 computer, as outlined in your letter of July 11, 
Otfi, o 
io 
yi 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
FO FIRES TAL 
• 
... 
.iV';-.'.?0*' rolocal . 
p ? -i C , 
. U. 
CranysYr 
' 
v* 5 0 <K 
• ' • 
Alt*, 
u* li 

2 8 4 9 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
D ear Mr. Kimbrel: 
July 25, 1968 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries 
0 officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta as listed below, 
in accordance with your letter of July 18, 1968: 
Officer 
C. Rainey 
J' T. Harris 
B. H. Hargett 
G. C. Guynn 
B. Forbes 
G« H. Gaffney 
The 
Title 
Salary 
Effective 
V. P.-Jacksonville 
$23,000 
11/1 
V. P.-Birmingham 
20,000 
10/1 
V. P.-Atlanta 
20,000 
9/1 
Plan. Off.-Atlanta 
16,000 
9/1 
A. V. P.-Atlanta 
15,000 
9/1 
A. V. P.-Atlanta 
14,000 
9/1 
1968G r a t e S w o u l d b e effective on the dates shown through December 31, 
if 
The Board also indicated that it would be in agreement 
your Bank reimbursed the following costs to officers or employees 
— «««* icuuL/utocu cue iuiiuwiug tusLs lo oincers or empio^ 
. Relocating from one office to another in your District, pro-
I n8 the relocation was at the request of your Bank: 
Cost of appraisals. 
Broker's commission up to 6 per cent of the selling 
Price. 
Normal selling costs (such as attorney fees, realty 
transfer taxes, and survey charges). 
Mortgage prepayment penalty. 
Reasonable carrying charges for a limited period 
(dependent upon the period of time of the notice the 
Bank gives its employee) if the employee is required to 
vacate the house before it is sold, providing the employee 
has to relocate because of a reporting date set by the 
Bank. 
An amount not to exceed $250 to compensate for drapes, 
utility charges, etc., supported by an itemized list. 

2850 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
. 
•••' I' i'v 
' • • 1 
Monroe Kimbrel 
-2-
iif'iir' 
mm 
You might be interested in knowing that the Board approved 
e notification to other Reserve Banks of this action with regard 
reimbursement of moving costs. Also, a recommendation will be 
t u t V k t H e C o n f e r e n c e o f Presidents that further study be insti-
::Lea by 
Sys tem to provide for a reasonable and consistent 
movI° 
i n c o n n e c t i o n w i t h reimbursement of relocation costs for 
o f f
m e n t o f officers or employees of the Reserve Banks from one 
l C e t o another, when made at the request of the Reserve Bank. 
»• J .:. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
... • 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
* 
Assistant Secretary. 
• • . 
. 

w/ 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20S51 
Item No. 7 
7/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 26, 1968. 
in zwewc 
Dear Sir: 
, 
For your information, the following are excerpts from a 
etter from the Board of Governors to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta dated July 25, 1968: 
"The Board also indicated that it would be in agreement 
if your Bank reimbursed the following costs to officers 
employees for relocating from one office to another in 
your District, providing the relocation was at the request 
of your Bank: 
i 
:> * • 
Cost of appraisals. 
Broker's commission up to 6 per cent of the 
selling price. 
Normal selling costs (such as attorney fees, 
realty transfer taxes, and survey charges). 
Mortgage prepayment penalty. 
Reasonable carrying charges for a limited 
period (dependent upon the period of time of the 
notice the Bank gives its employee) if the employee 
is required to vacate the house before it is sold, 
providing the employee has to relocate because of 
a reporting date set by the Bank. 
An amount not to exceed $250 to compensate 
for drapes, utility charges, etc., supported by an 
itemized list. 
"You might be interested in knowing that the Board 
•Pproved the notification to other Reserve Banks of this 
action with regard to reimbursement of moving costs. 
Also, a recommendation will be made to the Conference 

„! £jiffe 
' v \*v 
» VI 
V 
ft *•»'>? 
- 2 -
Presidents that further study be instituted by the 
System to provide for a reasonable and consistent approach 
in connection with reimbursement of relocation costs for 
movement of officers or employees of the Reserve Banks 
from one office to another, when made at the request of 
the Reserve Bank." 
r . 
The Board, of course, would be in agreement if your Bank 
m b u r sed the costs shown above. 
Very truly yours, 
O 
/ 
_ _ 
L-y--
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
t 0 ^ E PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
7/25/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 31, 1968. 
1 V-Ift u , 
George H. Clay, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
a r Mr. Clay: 
64198 
In a letter dated July 25, 1968, to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, the Board indicated that it would not object if 
that Bank reimbursed the following costs to its officers and 
eiiiployees f o r relocating from one office to another in the 
istrict, provided that the relocation was at the request of the 
B*nk: 
Cost of appraisals. 
Broker1s commission up to 6 per cent of the 
selling price. 
Normal selling costs (such as attorney fees, 
realty transfer taxes, and survey charges). 
Mortgage prepayment penalty. 
Reasonable carrying charges for a limited 
period (dependent on the period of time of 
the notice the Bank gives its employee) if 
the employee is required to vacate the house 
before it is sold, provided the employee has 
to relocate because of a reporting date set 
by the Bank. 
An amount not to exceed $250 to compensate for 
drapes, utility charges, etc., supported by an 
itemized list. 

m 
2 8 5 4 
to. George H. Clay, Chairman 
-2-
The Board has also notified the other Reserve Banks of 
"is action with regard to the Atlanta Reserve Bank, and that it 
w°uld not object if they followed a similar procedure. 
Because the Atlanta Reserve Bank's request for an 
exPression of the Board's views on this question was of some 
^rgency, it was not possible to refer the subject to the 
Residents1 Conference in advance. However, in view of the 
J,mPortance of this matter for the officers and employees of the 
ystem, the Board would appreciate it if the Conference would 
U o w institute a study to recommend a reasonable and consistent 
aPproach in connection with reimbursement of relocation costs 
j-nvolved in the movement of officers and employees of the Reserve 
anks from one office to another, when made at the request of the 
serve Bank, and any other relevant considerations which the 
Re 
flterence deems appropriate. 
ipp*- >\ ! i 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
m 

<-fI<f 1>C 
isa&^y 
* J 
RVL> 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 7 
7/25/68 
G E O R G E 
W . 
M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R 
O F T H E 
B O A R D 
July 25, 1968 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York 
10045. 
Dear Ai: 
As I mentioned to you during our discussion of salary 
matters here last week, the Board feels that it would be desir-
able to have the opportunity of approving salary proposals for 
the officers of your Bank prior to any announcement of official 
changes and prior to their effective dates. We believe that 
two weeks would probably be a reasonable lead time to allow 
prompt staff processing of the majority of requests for 
approval of official salary adjustments at your Bank. 
The Board would very much appreciate it, therefore, 
if your Bank could submit proposed official salaries to the 
Board for approval approximately two weeks in advance of their 
effective date and any public announcement of the appointments. 
The Board believes that such a procedure would be quite helpful 
and would be generally in line with the practice followed by 
the other Reserve Banks. Of course, if situations of an urgent 
nature should occur, we would be prepared to review your re-
quest for approval immediately and to advise you of the Board's 
action by telephone or telegraph, if necessary. We would also 
continue to make every effort to process and consider routine 
requests for salary adjustments as quickly as possible. 
If this procedure should be inconvenient for the 
Bank or your directors, I and the other members of the Com-
mittee would, of course, be happy to discuss the matter with 
you again. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell, Chairman, 
Committee on Organization, 
Compensation and Building Plans. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 
1 9 1 0 1 
Item No. 11 
7/25/68 
July 2h, 1968 
Board of Directors 
Camden Trust Company 
Camden, New Jersey 
Dear Sirs: 
On behalf of the Board of G< 
Reserve System, acting under c 
Federal Reserve Back of Philac 
toent by Camden Trust Company, 
^ 
Jersey, of a branch at the south; 
and River Avenue, Camde*r7%amden Cl 
the branch is established wKhin 
letter. 
This acti 
and factors: 
the establish-
County , New 
of 3^th Street 
'Jew Jersey. provided 
from the date of this 
Coital orvrou' 
I^anaxement of\ 
following opinions 
k. XX regarded as adequate, 
bank is regarded as adequate. 
It iV beMeved the convenience and needs of the 
community/ will be better served if the proposed 
sJ)ranch 
established. 
-s believed the establishment of the proposed 
branch will nottend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation (either actual or potential) 
It is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earnings 
are adequate to sustain the operational losses 
of the proposed branch until it becomes profitable, 
Your bank's investment in bank premises after the 
expenditure for the proposed branch will "be 
reasonable. 

D E*AL R E S E R V E BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
PAQE NO 
2 
T o 
Board of Directors 
l/2k/6Q 
7. Counsel for this Reserve Rank considers that 
establishment of the branch would be in con-
formity with the provisions of section 208.8 
of Regulation H and section 5155 of the 
Revised Statutes. 
8. On July 2k, 1968 we were advised by phoneW 
Deputy roinmissioner Raymond Wesner of the WE 
Jersey Banking Department that the 
jB^artmbnt 
had approved this application. 

0*1 
2858 FORM A'I 
COPY 
Item No. 12 ' 
7/25/68 
July 24, 196c 
'r. Dean II. Albert 
vice I resident and Comptroller 
incorporation of Montana 
0,. Box 230S 
Great Falls, Montana 
59401 
Dear Mr. Albert: 
On behalf-of the Board of Governors, acting under dele-
Sated authority, this bank has approved your request for an 
additional six months, to February 13, 1969 in which Bar.cori-oration 
of Montana may consummate acquisition of Eastside Bank of Montana, 
J»reut Falls; rondera Bank of Montana, Conrad; Valier Bank of 
Montana, Valier; and The ireoples State Bans of Missoula, Missoula, 
Pursuant to the Board of Governors' orders dated May 13, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
L. G. Gable 
Vice President 
LGG:B 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND. V I R G I N I A 
23213 
July 25, 1968. 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia lank and Trust Company, 
Vlnston-Sslea, Morth Carolina 27102, 
Gentlemen: 
Tha Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, on behalf 
of and under autltorlty delegated by tha Board of Governors 
of tha Vadaral Reserve System, has approved the application 
of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salea, North 
Carolina, to establish a branch at 6230 Falrvlev Road, 
Charlotte, Vorth Carolina, providing tha branch Is estab-
lished within six Months from tha date of this letter. In 
reaching this decision, consideration has been given to 
the bank's capitalisation and management, the convenience 
*nd needs of the community, the cos^etltlve situation In 
the eras and the future proepects of the brench. 
Flease advise ns when a definite date for opening 
has been determined and tha exact title under which the 
brench will operate. 
Tours very truly, 
/S/ Robert P. Black 
Item No. 7 
7/25/68 
Robert F. Black, 
First ?lca Fresldent. 

_ 
2860 
* E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
9 4 1 2 0 
Item No. 14 
7/25/68 
July 25, 1968 
of such 
Govprfiors of the 
relegated authority, 
Mr. Angus H. Be11iston, President, 
First State Bank of Salina, 
Sallna, Utah 84654. 
toar Mr. Belliston: 
> 
This will acknowledge receipt of your letters d 
July 11, 1968, and July 18, 1968, signifying your intent 
to withdraw from membership in the Federal Reserve System 
•nd requesting waiver of the six 
withdrawal. 
On behalf of the Board oJ 
««d§ral Reserve Sysj^toTlicTsUig undei 
t-his Bank waives jtha requirement of six months' notice of 
withdrawal. I)nd6r the provisions of Section 208.10(c) of 
he Board's Relation H, your |institution may accomplish 
®raination of iVs membership dt any time within ei^ht 
otitha from the d\te that notice of intention to withdraw 
^ o m membership was given. Jtfpon surrender to the Federal 
Atstrve Bank of San Francisco of the Federal Reserve stock 
: ««ued to your institution, such stock will be cancelled 
nd appropriate refund will be made thereon. We will 
^Predate advice from you as to the manner in which such 
Payment Is t6 be effected. 
At the same time, please deliver to us, for 
cancellation, the certificate which was issued to First 
o «te Bank of Salina representing membership in the Federal 
deserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
