MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 4, 1968 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Wednesday, December 4, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Reserve Bank salaries and salary ranges. In material distrib-
uted under date of December 3, 1968, on behalf of the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, Governor Mitchell set 
forth proposed salary ranges for the positions of President and First 
Vice President at the respective Federal Reserve Banks as follows: 
First Vice 
President 
President 
New York 
$60,000-90,000 
$42,500-60,000 
Chicago and San Francisco 
50,000-75,000 
35,000-45,000 
Other nine Banks 
42,500-60,000 
32,500-42,500 
Also set forth were proposed salary ranges for certain other 
Positions, as follows: 
Senior 
Vice President 
"B" Vice President 
New York 
$32,000-46,000 
$28,000-40,000 
Other eleven Banks 
24,000-37,500 
18,000-32,000 
i/ Withdrew at point indicated in m i n u t e s . 

421 
12/4/68 
-2-
At New York there would be a special maximum for the position 
of Senior Vice President of $50,000. 
In addition, the memorandum listed tentative 1969 salaries 
for the Presidents and First Vice Presidents of ten of the Reserve 
Banks, as follows: 
First Vice 
President 
President 
Boston 
$47,500 
$37,500 
New York 
85,000 
55,000 
Cleveland 
50,000 
33,000 
Richmond 
45,000 
37,500 
Chicago 
67,500 
37,000 
St. Louis 
50,000 
37,500 
Minneapolis 
50,000 
37,500 
Kansas City 
50,000 
34,500 
Dallas 
50,000 
33,000 
San Francisco 
60,000 
37,000 
In some instances the tentative salaries reflected actions 
taken by the directors of the respective Banks, or at least conversa-
tions with the Chairmen of the respective Banks, but in other cases, 
like New York, there had as yet been no discussion with representatives 
the Banks concerned. 
Members of the Board expressed general agreement with the 
Proposed revised salary ranges. Likewise, the tentative salaries 
listed for the respective Presidents for 1969 were regarded as satis-
factory except in two situations, mentioned below, where the incum-
bents had been serving for only relatively short periods of time, 
the case of Boston there was sentiment against moving as high as 

12/4/68 
-3-
the proposed $47,500 salary at present, and in the case of Dallas 
there was an inclination to feel that a level of $45,000 would be 
appropriate at this juncture. 
With respect to the tentative salaries listed for First Vice 
Presidents, it was suggested that it might not be inappropriate to 
move up to $57,500 at New York and to $37,500 at Chicago and San 
Francisco. 
With respect to the two Banks not included on the list, 
Governor Mitchell said he anticipated requests for approval of 
$50,000 for the President at Philadelphia and $45,000 for the 
President at Atlanta, and it was not indicated that such levels 
would present problems for the Board. 
The principal discussion had to do with the proposals for the 
Presidents and First Vice Presidents in relation to the status of the 
Executive Pay Bill for Federal Government positions, on which the 
Congress would have to act by February 15, 1969, if the provisions 
thereof were not to go into effect. The uncertainty with regard to 
the fate of the pay bill led some Board members to raise the question 
A e t h e r it would not be prudent to wait until the result was clear 
before moving ahead on the Reserve Bank Presidents and First Vice 
Presidents. It was suggested by one Board member that in most cases 
a Problem technically did not exist since the proposed salaries 
could be paid within the limits of the existing salary ranges. 

4215 
12/4/68 
-4-
However, the view was expressed that there were interrelationships 
involved of such a nature that it would be difficult to approve 
parts of the package and not others. 
The question therefore came down to whether it would be 
desirable to defer action on the proposed salary ranges and the 
Payment of salaries thereunder. Some members of the Board, including 
Governors Robertson and Maisel, were inclined to feel that deferment 
would be the wiser course, particularly since the Federal Reserve 
System was involved, and at one stage of the discussion a suggestion 
was made that the problem might be laid before the Chairmen and 
Deputy Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks at their meeting begin-
ni-ng tomorrow in order to obtain their reactions. 
Other members of the Board believed that the stronger arguments 
were in favor of proceeding to act on the revised salary ranges and 
°n the proposed salary rates effective January 1, 1969. They pointed 
0 u t , among other things, that the proposed increases reflected, in 
some measure at least, cost-of-living increases that had already 
occurred, that deferral of salary adjustments for Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents, but not for others, might create salary admini-
stration problems at some Banks, and that a decision to delay might 
only 
result in further complications in relation to the Executive 
P a y Bill. 

43X6 
12/4/68 
-5-
This view eventually prevailed and the proposed revised 
salary ranges were approved. As to the tentative salaries of 
Presidents and First Vice Presidents, it was understood that the 
modifications suggested at this meeting would be taken into account 
and that negotiations would continue with the Reserve Banks concerned 
in those cases where directors' actions had not already been sub-
mitted to the Board as well as in cases where actions submitted 
seemed to raise some question. 
Economic information. Mr. Brill reported various pieces of 
information on economic developments and prospects, including confi-
dential information on business plant and equipment expenditure plans 
for the first half of 1969 as disclosed by the survey soon to be 
released by the Commerce Department. 
Management development. In a memorandum of December 3, 1968, 
Governor Sherrill proposed undertaking a broader and more vigorous 
management development program for the Board's staff. To direct the 
Program, he suggested the establishment of a Management Development 
Committee consisting, at least initially, of himself as Chairman and 
Messrs. Holland, Brill, Farrell, Solomon (Supervision and Regulation), 
and Johnson. He contemplated that the Division of Personnel Admin-
istration would handle the administration of the program under the 
Policy guidance of the Committee, and for expert advice he requested 
authority to contract for consultant services from academics or 

r o i? 
Ji. • 
12/4/68 
-6-
management specialists. Also, he proposed to request the Conference 
of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks to establish a qualified 
committee to advise the Board group in this field. Additionally, it 
was believed that an exchange of views about management training 
Programs with the Federal Reserve Banks would be useful, looking 
toward whatever degree of cooperative endeavor might prove mutually 
desirable. 
In discussing the proposed program, Governor Sherrill empha-
sized that it would be the intent to use the Director of Personnel as 
administrator when policies were fixed, while the Management Develop-
ment Committee would shape and guide the program. In response to a 
suggestion, he agreed to the addition of the Director of the Division 
°f International Finance to the Committee. 
The activation of the proposed Management Development Com-
mittee was then approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
Committee was authorized to proceed with the construction of a 
Program along the lines suggested in Governor Sherrill
1s memorandum. 
It was noted in this connection that a discussion of management 
development appeared on the agenda of the forthcoming meeting of the 
Conference of Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Division of Data Processing. Governor Sherrill recommended 
approval of certain organizational and personnel changes in the 
division of Data Processing as described in a memorandum from the 

12/4/68 
-7-
Division dated November 19, 1968, and attachments thereto (copies of 
which have been placed in the Board's files). The organizational 
modifications consisted primarily of the formation of a new branch 
with two new sections (Statistical Production and Data Management) 
formed from the combined positions and personnel of the Financial 
Statistics Section and the Data Management and Production Section. 
In addition, the Economic Graphics Section was being assigned to the 
Operations Branch of the Division. 
After comments by Governor Sherrill on the purpose of the 
changes and an indication by him that additional adjustments were 
likely to be proposed later, the organizational and related personnel 
changes recommended in the memorandum were approved unanimously 
effective December 1, 1968. 
Division of International Finance. Governor Sherrill called 
t o the attention of the Board the announcement being made with respect 
to certain appointments and organizational changes in the Division of 
International Finance, as previously approved by the Board. 
Conference of Chairmen. Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board, 
entered the room at this point and briefed the Board on plans that 
had been made for the meeting, beginning tomorrow, of the Conference 
o f Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks, including a few last-minute 
changes that had proved to be necessary. 

% ' > 
12/4/68 
-8-
Additional members of the staff, as follows, joined the 
meeting at this point, while Messrs. Sherman and Johnson withdrew: 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal Division 
Miss Wickstead and Mr. Lawrence of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Ponczka of the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
International Banking Corporation. Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to International Banking Corporation, New York, 
New Y o r k , g r a n t i n g c o n s e n t to the a c q u i s i t i o n of a d d i t i o n a l shares of 
Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique Occidentale, Paris, France. A 
C o P y is attached as Item No. 1. 
Regulatory treatment of foreign subsidiaries. Prior to 1966 
a m e m b e r b a n k could a c q u i r e a c o n t r o l l i n g i n t e r e s t in a f o r e i g n b a n k 
°
nly through the utilization of an Edge or agreement corporation. 
that year, however, section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act was 

4220 
12/4/68 
-9-
amended to permit direct acquisition of foreign banks by member banks; 
and thereafter, beginning in 1967, the Board approved a series of such 
applications. In doing so, the Board imposed in each instance a con-
dition to the effect that activities of the foreign subsidiary bank 
must be restricted to those permissible for a foreign branch of a 
member bank. This was with the understanding (within the Board) that 
the condition was being prescribed temporarily pending further study 
°f the matter. 
The inclusion of the aforementioned condition meant that the 
foreign subsidiary bank could exercise only very limited underwriting 
functions because of the statutory restriction against underwriting 
by 
foreign branches of member banks. (Under a 1962 amendment to 
section 25 the Board was empowered to authorize foreign branches, by 
regulation, to exercise such additional powers as were usual in the 
banking business in the countries in which they operated. That amend-
ment provided, however, that "except to such limited extent as the 
Board may deem to be necessary with respect to securities issued by 
a n y 'foreign state
1 as defined in section 25(b) of this Act,...such 
r egulations (shall not) authorize a foreign branch to engage or 
Participate, directly or indirectly, in the business of underwriting, 
selling, or distributing securities.") 
The underwriting powers of foreign subsidiaries of Edge 
c°rporations "engaged in banking" were similarly circumscribed, by 

12/4/68 
-io-
Board regulation. However, an Edge corporation "not engaged in 
banking" had power generally to underwrite debt securities abroad, 
and the Board had held recently that such corporations could, with 
Prior Board consent, underwrite equity securities as well. Such 
Powers therefore were also available to a foreign bank subsidiary of 
an Edge corporation "not engaged in banking." 1/ 
First National City Bank, New York, New York, had now applied 
permission to acquire the ownership interests in a number of 
foreign banks presently held through International Banking Corpora-
tion, a wholly-owned Edge corporation, and in that connection the 
s taff had presented views on the broader question of the conditions 
that should be attached generally to direct acquisitions of foreign 
hanks by member banks. Such views were set forth in memoranda from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and from the Legal Division, 
e a c h memorandum being dated November 20, 1968. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended, in 
S ubstance, that a directly-owned foreign bank be permitted to engage 
l n any activity that would be permissible to such bank if it was a 
i/ As indicated in written material distributed prior to today's 
m eeting and in comments at the meeting, the legal staff (Messrs. Shay 
and Doyle) continued to believe that the statutory language should be 
terpreted to mean that Edge corporations had authority to engage 
Ly in the underwriting of debt (and not equity) securities. There 
W a s 
n°thing in today's discussion, however, to suggest that Board 
Members were persuaded to change the position taken by the Board in 
C e r t a i n recent decisions. 

12/4/68 
-11-
subsidiary of an Edge corporation "not engaged in banking." 
The 
Division also recommended that the eight consents granted to date in 
approving direct acquisitions be amended accordingly. 
In the Legal Division's memorandum, Mr. Shay expressed the 
view that a member bank was not barred by statute from having a 
directly-owned foreign bank subsidiary that engaged in both commercial 
and investment banking. In his opinion it was therefore a question of 
Policy whether the Board, as a regulatory matter, wanted to apply the 
same restrictions on underwriting as were applicable by statute in 
the case of foreign branches. 
Mr. Doyle agreed that such a construction of the statutes 
would be legally sustainable. He believed, however, that it might be 
more in accord with the intent of section 25, as amended in 1962 (when 
the powers of foreign branches were allowed to be broadened), and with 
the theory underlying the traditional separation of commercial and 
^vestment banking in the U.S. if the underwriting powers of all 
foreign bank subsidiaries of member banks (whether control was held 
directly or through an Edge corporation) were limited to the types of 
securities that foreign branches were permitted to underwrite. More-
°ver, unless there were good policy reasons for granting wider powers 
to "t 
incorporated foreign branches" and other controlled foreign bank 
S ubsidiaries than to foreign branches, he felt that it might be prefer-
able for the Board generally to restrict the activities of foreign bank 

' l ^ i J 
12/4/68 
-12-
subsidiaries (whether held directly or through Edge corporations) to 
what was permissible for foreign branches under Regulation M, Foreign 
Activities of National Banks. As he pointed out, the Board could 
amend Regulation M to authorize such broader powers as might seem 
appropriate in order to allow foreign branches (and likewise foreign 
°ank subsidiar ies) to compete effectively abroad. 
In the underwriting 
area, of course, equal treatment of foreign branches and foreign bank 
subsidiaries would necessarily mean that the subsidiary banks would be 
limited to underwriting the types of securities that foreign branches 
were permitted by statute to underwrite. 
On the other hand, if the Board nevertheless should prefer to 
equate the powers of foreign bank subsidiaries with those of Edge 
corporations "not engaged in banking" rather than with those of foreign 
branches, Mr. Doyle concluded that it would be legally sustainable to 
interpret the statutory underwriting restriction so as to limit its 
aPplication to activities of direct foreign branches. 
During the rather wide-ranging discussion that occurred at 
today's meeting after presentation of staff views, comments by most 
the Board members present reflected a general attitude that where 
statutory provisions were not controlling, and to the extent that con-
siderations of the public interest did not clearly dictate otherwise, 
r egulatory policies should be geared in the direction of liberalizing 

4 2 2 4 
12/4/68 
-13-
the arrangements under which U.S. banks were permitted to conduct 
business abroad.-^ 
As to the specific issue under consideration, it was 
understood by the Board members from the comments of the legal staff 
that no legal barrier existed such as to preclude the Board from 
following the course of action recommended by the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation. Some apprehension was expressed with regard 
t o the extent of liability that might accrue to a U.S. bank as the 
result of operations of a directly-owned foreign bank, particularly 
If such operations included underwriting. As noted during the 
discussion, whereas a member bank was restricted by statute from 
investing more than 10 per cent of its capital and surplus in Edge 
and agreement corporations, no such statutory limitation applied in 
the 
case of investment in directly-owned foreign bank subsidiaries. 
However, the Board had by regulation imposed a limitation of 25 per 
cent of capital and surplus in connection with such investments, and 
i t : W a s brought out that additional regulatory options could be 
exercised by the Board if and when that should seem advisable in the 
U 8 h t of developments. 
Accordingly, most Board members concluded that U.S. banks 
hould not be forced into a particular organizational pattern 
of ^ °
V e r n o r Mitchell, who withdrew from the meeting during the course 
e discussion, expressed before leaving his agreement with this 
general philosophy. 

a o o t r 
12/4/68 
-14-
(involving the utilization of Edge corporations) in order to 
accomplish their objectives in terms of overseas operations and that 
such banks desiring to conduct operations abroad through direct con-
trol of foreign banks should have approximately the same degree of 
latitude to compete with banks in the host countries as would be 
the case if they interposed Edge corporations. 
The way in which such a Board verdict would be translated 
Into action in connection with the First National City Bank application 
had been indicated in a draft of letter to the bank that was attached 
a memorandum on the case submitted by the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation under date of November 20, 1968, as amended in a 
subsequent memorandum to correct certain drafting deficiencies, and 
the amended letter was now approved, Governor Robertson dissenting. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
In dissenting, Governor Robertson indicated that he was not 
Prepared to acquiesce in an action of the kind being taken in the 
absence of a more thorough study of the regulatory implications. He 
recalled that the Board, after due deliberation, had written into its 
r egulations certain distinctions between Edge corporations "engaged in 
banking" and those "not engaged in banking," including a distinction 
a s to the extent to which such corporations would be permitted to 
' J1-V? ,\ 
I ;, t z 
> I 
. j 
, , J, • . y , \ I 
\ 
• 
; ' 
l i i J . 
,,'.•« i / . A 
> j ! 
\ 
' ' 
e r igag e i n underwriting. 
If the Board was now going to permit directly-
°wned foreign subsidiary banks to engage in underwriting to the same 

4226 
12/4/68 
-15-
extent as Edge corporations "not engaged in banking" (and their foreign 
bank subsidiaries), it seemed to him that perhaps Edge corporations 
engaged in banking" should be given the same authority, but he was not 
Prepared at this stage to propose such a change in the regulations. 
Furthermore, if directly-held foreign subsidiary banks were to be 
allowed to engage in underwriting to a significant extent, it appeared 
to h ' 
0 him that it might be well to consider limiting (beyond the present 
25 per cent of capital and surplus) the investment of member banks in 
S u c b subsidiaries. 
Meanwhile, Governor Robertson pointed out, member banks 
W e r e not estopped from having foreign bank subsidiaries that engaged 
i n u n d erwriting; they would simply have to interpose an Edge corpora-
tion "not engaged in banking." 
Also on the agenda for consideration at today's meeting 
W e r e the following applications: 
t 
Application of Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, New York, New York, for 
approval of an increase in its authorized capital 
stock and an amendment to its articles of associa-
tion. 
Application of Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to 
acquire shares of Manufacturers Hanover Limited, 
London, England. 
Applications of Wells Fargo International Corpora-
tion, New York, New York, and Security First 
International Corporation, Los Angeles, California, 
to acquire additional shares of Western American Bank 
(Europe) Limited, London, England. 

12/4/68 
-16-
Application of National Bank of Detroit, Detroit, 
Michigan, to acquire shares of Western American 
Bank (Europe) Limited, London, England, from a 
subsidiary (International Bank of Detroit) and 
also to acquire certain additional shares of the 
London bank. 
Application of United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, New York, New York, 
for permission to continue to hold the stock of 
a subsidiary (United States Trust International 
Advisory Company) following acquisition by the 
latter of the stock of Capital Bank A.G., Zurich, 
Switzerland. 
The foregoing applications were approved, Governor Robertson 
voting "no". Copies of the letters sent to the respective applicants 
a r e attached as Items 3 through 8. 
(Note: As previously indicated, in approving eight applica-
tions, beginning in 1967, for acquisition of direct controlling 
interests in foreign banks, the Board had imposed a condition that in 
effect limited the activities of the foreign bank to those permissible 
f o r a foreign branch of a member bank. Today's action by the Board 
c arried with it an understanding that the condition imposed in those 
C a s e s would be appropriately amended. Letters reflecting the 
amendment were sent subsequently to the parties at interest.) 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
f the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
c°nsolidation of First National Bank of Meadville, Meadville, 
Pe 
n nsylvania, into The First National Bank of Erie, Erie, Pennsylvania, 

4 2 2 8 
12/4/68 
; •• '•• I i;.'.. 
w a s approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
There is no existing competition between First 
National Bank of Meadville and The First National Bank 
of Erie; however, there is considerable potential for 
competition between them through de novo branching. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed consoli-
dation would be adverse. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum from Mr. Broida 
dated December 3, 1968, there had been distributed a draft of policy 
ecord entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
°
n S e P
t e m b e r 10, 1968. It was proposed to release the entry to the 
Press on Monday, December 9, and the entry was now being submitted for 
f l n a l 
r e v i e w by the Board. The draft had been approved by the Board 
"
1 i> 
a November 13, and no further suggestions had been received. 
The release of the entry was approved unanimously. 
A 
4 « 
4 /'» • 
The meeting then adjourned. 
i.i ' 
i 
Deputy Secretary 
' 
' 
' " 
" ' 

A 0 9 a 
••'mrnk 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item N o . 1 
12/4/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4 , 1968 
International Banking Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
York, New York. 
10022 
G e n t l e m e n : 
As stated in the Board
rs press release of February 8, 1968, it 
n°t the Board's present policy to approve equity investments in developed 
countries of continental Western Europe except in unusual circumstances. 
Q 
# 
However, due to the fact that Banque Internationale pour l'Afrique 
ccidentale ("BIAO"), Paris, France, the shares of which you propose to 
chase, derives a major portion (in excess of 80 per cent) of its profits 
outside continental Western Europe (specifically western and central 
m e ^
c a ) > the subject investment could be construed to be an equity invest-
in a lesser developed country. Consequently, in accordance with the 
equest contained in your letter of August 16, 1968, the Board of Governors 
s h
a n t s 
c°nsent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 98,000 additional 
t h ^
r e s 
o f the stock of BIAO at a cost of approximately $1,960,000, provided 
this
S l l a r e S 3 r e 
a c cl
u : i-
r e d within one year from the date of this letter. In 
of R T
C o n n e c t i o n , the Board also approves the purchase and holding of shares 
<1
 B X A 0 by your Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set 
Res
 
l n 
t h e P
r o v i s i o n s 
o f Section 25(a)(12U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal 
6 r v e A°t and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
li f
S t t n e n t now being approved will be made within the guidelines estab-
a 
, 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they 
Fir ^
 t 0 
t*
1 6 f o r e i 8
n lending and investment activities of your Corporation, 
t i Q
S t N a t i o n a l City Bank, First National City Overseas Investment Corpora-
tion'
 
F i r s t National City Bank (International), and that due considera-
n 
i s being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
. t c'a o ., j b ,
- 
c <j $ a'; u a/ . ac c I vi p . o c. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4230 
Item No. 2 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
12/4/68 
. ' ^ ^ C O ^ . , 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
o 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1968. 
First National City Bank, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of August 15, 1967, and November 15, 
the Board of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of 
the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M , for First National City Bank 
'
 fNCB")J New York, New York, to acquire from International Banking Corpo-
ration ("IBC"), New York, New York, its wholly-owned subsidiary, and hold 
stock and to exercise outstanding consents granted IBC to acquire stock 
l n the following foreign organizations: 
, 
Approximate 
Ownership 
The Bank of Monrovia, Monrovia, Liberia 
100 
irst National City Trust Company (Bahamas) Ltd., 
Nassau, Bahamas 
100 
he First National City Bank of New York (South Africa), 
Ltd., Johannesburg, South Africa 
100 
international Trust Company, Montreal, Canada 
100 
N
 
e Mercantile Bank of Canada, Montreal, Canada 
, 99 
fi
GW 
Y o r k London Trustee Co., Ltd., London, England 
75 
^anco de Honduras, S.A., Tegucigalpa, Honduras 
53 
•C.B. Trust Ltd., London, England 
67 
ational City Nominees Ltd., London, England 
50 
0£ 
The Board's consent to the proposed direct acquisition and holding 
t h e
S ^
a r e S °
f e a c h
 o f 
the above subsidiaries by FNCB is granted subject to 
appli c abi e provisions of Section 25 and Regulation M and to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares shall be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if the subsidiary shall in any manner engage in any activity or 
take any action whatsoever that would not be permissible if the 
subsidiary were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 

4 2 3 1 
pirst National City Bank 
-2-
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCB will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activi-
ties of the subsidiary as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by the subsidiary 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if the subsidiary were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FNCB shall not carry on its books the shares of the 
subsidiary at a net amount in excess of its proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of the subsidiary, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
U ntil further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
Preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
S e t forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
In reference to N.C.B. Trust Ltd., National City Nominees Ltd. 
and New York London Trustee Co. Ltd., the above consent is granted with 
understanding that the activities of these companies will remain those 
P
r°viding trustee, nominee, and related services as integral parts of 
e banking business of your branches. 
R 
The Board also grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 and 
e8ul ation M , for FNCB to acquire from IBC and hold stock and to exercise 
0 u tstanding consents granted IBC to acquire stock in the following foreign 
O r8anizations: 
N 
Approximate 
^ ^ 
Ownership 
g que Internationale pour I'Afrique Occidentale, Paris, France 
49 
a n c o 
d e Financiacion Industrial, Madrid, Spain 
10 
; 
-" 
, \ , f 
V ' 
.. . 
' 1',," 
' • , ij.,-
r 
Regulation M provides that FNCB will furnish the Board with such 
Ports regarding the activities of the organization whose shares are ac-
e d > as the Board may require from time to time. 
1967
 
T h e 
r e m a i n i n g organizations listed in your letter of August 15, 
g 
't do not appear to qualify as "foreign banks" within the meaning of 
*
C t i o n 25 and Regulation M . Accordingly, the Board is unable to grant 
^ m i s s i o n for FNCB to acquire and hold directly stock in FNCB-Waltons 
d e
rP°
r a tion Limited ("Waltons"), Sydney, Australia, and Sociedad de Financiacion 
e n t a s a Credito S.A. ("SOFIVAC"), Madrid, Spain. 

Fi-rst National City Bank 
-3-
However, the Board interposes no objection to the acquisition 
bY FNCB of the stock currently held by IBC in Waltons and SOFIVAC, pro-
vided that FNCB shall promptly sell or donate such stock to one or both 
its wholly-owned subsidiaries, First National City Overseas Investment 
Corporation ("FNCOIC") and First National City Bank (International)("FNCBI"), 
In this connection, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
NG°IC and/or FNCBI to acquire and hold the shares of Waltons and SOFIVAC 
currently held by IBC, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
om the date of this letter. The Board also approves the purchase and 
-j? ing
 o f shares of Waltons by FNCOIC or FNCBI in excess of the applicable 
imitations set forth in Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal 
eserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
o f 
The Board's consent to the acquisition and holding of the shares 
Waltons by FNCOIC or FNCBI is granted subject to the same conditions 
^escribed in the second paragraph of this letter, except for the substitu-
tion of FNCOIC or FNCBI for FNCB, and Waltons for "the subsidiary." 
Subject 
n o t - °
n t i n U l n g 
o b s e r v a t i °
n 
a n d review, the Board suspends, until further 
advi '
 t h e s e conditions with the understanding that FNCOIC or FNCBI will 
S e the Board of any change in the control of Waltons. 
c 
. 
Furthermore, the Board of Governors approves an increase in the 
IBC
 
s t o c k 
o f FNCOIC and/or FNCBI up to an amount equal to the cost to 
s u c h stock of Waltons and SOFIVAC as is sold or transferred to FNC 
/ 
— 
u j- w a. a. u u ii a anu jucivao cio j-o ouj-u «j±. <_ 1. cm o ^ . ^ 
FNCOIC 
°r Fnp
 F N C B -
t # 
is understood that the shares to be issued by FNCOIC and/ 
sha
 
W H 1 be purchased by FNCB for cash or in return for the transfer of 
r e s of Waltons and SOFIVAC. 
ment 
The Board of Governors accordingly also approves the relevant amend-
pleas°
f A r t i c l e SEVENTH of the Articles of Association of FNCOIC and/or FNCBI. 
F e d
 S e forward certified copies of such amendments to the Board through the 
r a l Reserve Bank of New York. 
r e q u . 
should be noted that Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
With*
 e s .
t ^
a t the increase in issued and outstanding stock be fully paid in 
n n inety days after the date of this letter. 
£ e r s 
!t is noted that the approved transactions will be effected by trans-
under
 
w i H have no effect upon the position of FNCB and its subsidiaries 
r the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

4233 
B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
• F THE 
12/4/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1968 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, 
^ Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
, 
, . v . 
. , 
Gentlemen: 
i 
o f 
As requested in your letter of August 19, 1968, the Board 
0 
Governors approves an increase in the authorized capital stock of 
your Corporation ("MHIFC") from $2,000,000 to $5,000,000 through the 
issuance of 30,000 additional shares (par value $100 each). It is 
understood that these shares will be fully subscribed to by Manufac-
urers Hanover Trust Company ("MHTC"), but that MHTC proposes to fully 
pay for only 24,000 of them in the near future, neither of which ac-
require Board approval. 
The Board of Governors accordingly also approves the amend-
ent of Article SEVENTH of your Corporation's Articles of Association. 
. 
^ e Board of Governors consents that the remainder of the 
^apital stock of MHIFC may be paid in upon call from the Board of 
s h
r ^
t o r s of the Corporation, provided that the Board of Governors 
a 
have approved each such increase in paid-in capital not more 
an ninety days prior to the date on which the increase is paid in. 
R 
.
 
F o r your information, the proviso in the preceding para-
with
 
1 S p r e s c r i b e d 
i n order to bring the situation into conformity 
of t h
t h e 
s e c o n d sentence of the twelfth paragraph of Section 25(a) 
the 
federal Reserve Act, which seems to embody the principle that 
sin
 a p p r oP
r : J-
ateness of each increase in paid-in capital shall be con-
ered by the Board of Governors shortly before the increase actually 
takes place. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
4234 
Item No. 4 
12/4/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1968 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
Finance Corporation, 
4 4 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
o f August 19, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold up to 80 per cent of the shares of 
Manufacturers Hanover Limited ("MHL"), London, England, at a cost of 
approximately $3,000,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
t w o years from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board 
also approves the purchase and holding of shares of MHL by your Corpo-
ration in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the pro-
visions of Section 25(a) (12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal Reserve 
A c t and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of MHL by your Corporation ("MHIFC") is granted subject to 
h e following conditions: 
(1) That MHIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in MHL if MHL at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a corpo-
ration in which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if MHL 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in England or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible to 
MHIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MHIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of MHL as it may require from time to time; 
and 

4235 
Manufacturers Hanover International 
-2-
Finance Corporation 
* 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by MHL be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if MHL were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions on loans granted by MHL in England in the currency of 
that country. 
The Board of Governors also grants its consent for MHIFC to 
continue to hold the stock of MHL (1) after MHL purchases and holds at 
a nominal cost the stock of a nominee company in England, the activities 
0 
which will be solely that of acting as nominee for MHL in the serv-
icing of MHL's customers; and (2) when MHL acquires stocks, or rights 
° acquire stocks, arising out of underwriting operations, provided 
such stocks are disposed of within a reasonable time. 
Ail < • ,. , 
. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
e g
e 
i n v e s t m e n t now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
®
t ahlished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
rporation and Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, and that due con-
eration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
I) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item NO*'^*' 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
12/4/68 
^ G O v ^ . . 
D F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
^LRESfX 
...... 
Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation, 
Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1968. 
0£ 
accordance with the request contained in your letter 
Co
 
U 
' 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
^rporation ("WFBIC") to purchase and hold additional shares of 
a t
s t e r n American Bank (Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, 
a c
 a .
C o s t of approximately $1,020,000, provided the shares are 
C o
q u i r e f
 within one year from the date of this letter. In this 
nection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of 
res of WAB in excess of 15 per cent of your Corporation's 
C apital and surplus. 
i 
of j,. 
Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
f^ii
 
n a l shares of WAB by WFBIC is granted subject to the 
r°llowing conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if WAB shall in any manner engage in any activity or take 
any action whatsoever that would not be permissible if 
WAB were a corporation organized under Section 2 5(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking;" 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, WFBIC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of WAB as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WAB be re-
ported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the same 
manner as if WAB were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

4237 
Wells Fargo Bank International Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) , and 
t
c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
e investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
^fltablished under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and Wells Fargo Bank and that due consideration is 
e i n g given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
* 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
w i. 
s 

4238 
Item No. 6 
12/4/68 
J O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
B O A R D 
Security First International Corporation, 
5 6 1 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90054 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
J u l y 26, 1968, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpo-
ration ("SFIC") to purchase and hold additional shares of Western 
American Bank (Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, at a cost 
of approximately $1,020,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
°ne year from the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board 
so approves the purchase and holding of shares of WAB in excess of 
per cent of your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
a dditional shares of WAB by SFIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if WAB shall in any manner engage in any activity or take 
any action whatsoever that would not be permissible if 
WAB were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking;" 
i 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, SFIC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of WAB as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WAB be re-
ported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the same 
manner as if WAB were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 

4239 
Security First International Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate 
to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation and Security Pacific National Bank and that due 
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
|sigr ed) Robert P. Forrestai 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No.. 1 
12/4/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1968, 
National Bank of Detroit, 
Woodward at Fort Street, 
Detroit 32, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 8, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Regulation M, for National Bank of Detroit ("NBD"), 
Detroit, Michigan, to acquire from International Bank of Detroit, its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, and hold 720,000 shares of Western American 
Bank (Europe) Limited ("WAB"), London, England, and to purchase and 
hold an additional 360,000 shares of WAB at a cost of approximately 
$',020,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
the date of this letter. 
< 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
of WAB by NBD is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as practicable 
if WAB shall in any manner engage in any activity or take 
any action whatsoever that would not be permissible; if WAB 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking;" 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, NBD will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activi-
ties of WAB as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by WAB be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K. in the 
same manner as if WAB wore a corporation organized under 
Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

National Bank of Detroit 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) , and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now btdng approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your institution and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 8 
4242 
12/4/68 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 4, 1968 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, 
45 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
°f July 19, 1968, the Board of Governors grants its consent for 
your Corporation ("USTCIC") to continue to hold the stock of United 
States Trust International Advisory Company ("Advisory Company"), 
Luxembourg, after Advisory Company acquires all of the stock of 
Capital Bank A.G., ("CB"), Zurich, Switzerland, at a direct cost to 
Advisory Company of approximately $150,000, provided that 46 per cent 
°f the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of CB by USTCIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That USTCIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CB if CB at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could,( 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if CB establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in Switzerland or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to USTCIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, USTCIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CB as it may require from time to 
t ime; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CB be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if CB were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

0/2 rt 
424 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-2-
(4) That USTCIC shall not carry on its books, directly 
or indirectly, the shares of CB at a net amount in 
excess of its proportionate share of the book capi-
tal accounts of CB, after giving effect to the 
elimination of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends the conditions in the preceding paragraph until such time 
of 1
 
I C '
 directly or indirectly, obtains the majority of the stock 
of pr °
r o t h e r w i s e ^ercises effective control over the operations 
t CB. This suspension is granted on the understanding that USTCIC 
ill advise the Board immediately upon any change in its holding of 
cock of CB, or of any change in the control of CB's operations. 
Your attention is drawn to the provision of the guidelines 
or banks under the foreign credit restraint program which requests 
nat no new nonexport credits be made to developed countries of con-
inental Western Europe. In accordance with that provision, the Board 
o f t t
 
r e 5
a r d 
t h e 
U S G °
f t h e 
c a P
i t a l 
f u n d s > including retained earnings, 
Che Advisory Company, or other funds obtained by the Advisory Com-
pany from residents of the United States for the purpose of making 
°ans and investments in developed countries of continental Western 
rope as not being consistent yith the guidelines. The above con-
nt is therefore granted on the condition that funds for the pro-
posed investment be obtained by the Advisory Company from sources 
outside of the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
