Minutes for 
May 29, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Off ice of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

m 
129 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 29, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Approved items. The following letters, copies of which are 
attached to these minutes under the respective item numbers indicated, 
Were approved unanimously after consideration of background information 
that had been made available to the members of the Board: 
Item No. 
^tter to Central Trust Company Rochester 
1 
Y., Rochester, New York, approving the 
establishment of a branch in the Town of 
Pitt sford, Monroe County, and commenting 
° n the bank's capital and liquidity posi-
tions . 

21 30 
5/29/67 
-2-
Item No. 
Letter to Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, 
2 
Rochester, New York, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in the Town of Pittsford, 
Monroe County. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International 
3 
Finance Corporation, New York, New York, 
rescinding a condition imposed by the 
Board in consenting to the acquisition of 
shares of Morgan & Cie. S.A., Paris, France, 
namely, that the latter would not engage in 
deposit or acceptance operations, but impos-
ing certain other conditions usually included 
in cases involving acquisition of controlling 
interests in foreign financial institutions 
by Edge corporations. 
With respect to Item No. 3, Mr. Shay stated that the staff would 
study whether any question appeared to arise under section 32 of the 
Banking Act of 1933 by virtue of the involvement of Morgan, Stanley & 
Co. (a securities company) in the reorganization of Morgan & Cie. S.A., 
and that if necessary a memorandum would be presented to the Board. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The Mutual 
National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, into La Salle National 
Bank, also of Chicago. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Mutual 
National Bank of Chicago into La Salle National Bank, 
Chicago, would eliminate a unit bank and the small 
amount of competition existing between them. However, 
the Chicago area is served by a large number of banks, 
some of which are many times as large as the continuing 
bank. The overall effect of the merger on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 

5/29/67 
-3-
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of The Second National Bank of Phillipsburg, 
Phillipsburg, New Jersey, into The Phillipsburg National Bank and Trust 
Company, also of Phillipsburg. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Phillips-
burg National Bank and Trust Company and The Second National 
Bank of Phillipsburg would eliminate a significant degree 
of existing and potential competition. While three banking 
alternatives are readily available to Phillipsburg residents 
in Easton, Pennsylvania, banking alternatives in Phillipsburg 
would be reduced from three to two by combining the now two 
largest banks in Phillipsburg. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposed transac-
tion would be substantially adverse. 
Proposed real estate purchase by Cleveland Reserve Bank (Item 
No. 4). The Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland had requested authoriza-
tion to exercise its option to purchase certain property adjoining the 
head office building at a price of $775,000 plus incidental expenses. 
The Bank had in mind obtaining, by this means, additional security 
court space, space for storing emergency coin supplies, space for future 
offices if needed, and space for employee parking. A land area of 13,134 
square feet was involved, making the cost $59 per square foot. However, 
the Reserve Bank would otherwise have no possibility for future expan-
sion of its building, and it was believed that this might be the Bank's 
last opportunity to acquire the property. 
In a distributed memorandum dated May 25, 1967, the Division of 
Bank Operations recommended that the Board interpose no objection. 

2132 
5/29/67 
-4-
In discussion, Governor Brimmer said that he had attended the 
meeting of the Cleveland Board of Directors on May 18, 1967, at which 
the proposal was debated, that the relatively high cost of the property 
was considered, but that after full discussion the directors concluded 
that the property should be acquired. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank interposing no objection to the acquisition of the property. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
Kiting operation. Mr. Solomon reported having received advice 
this morning from the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency that 
the First National Bank of New Holland, New Holland, Ohio, had fallen 
victim to a kiting operation that apparently would result in a substan-
tial loss to the bank over and above the amount recoverable under its 
blanket bond. It appeared that application might be made for the acqui-
sition of the bank by a holding company, in which case expeditious action 
°n the part of the Board no doubt would be requested. 
Mr. Solomon's report was merely to alert the Board to the advice 
that had been received, and it was understood that the Division of Exam-
inations would keep in touch with developments in the matter. 
Participation by banks in sale of lottery tickets. The Vice 
Chairman advised the Board that Friday afternoon a request had been 
received for testimony before the House Banking and Currency Committee 
this Friday with respect to bill H.R. 9892, introduced by Congressman 
Patman, "to prohibit certain financial institutions from participating 

2133 
5/29/67 
-5-
in gambling activities." It was understood that one of the principal 
purposes of the bill was to prohibit insured banks from selling tickets 
in lotteries to be conducted by the State of New York. 
Governor Robertson said that a preliminary draft of statement 
had been prepared with respect to the bill. This relatively brief state-
ment would take the position, in general, that participation by banks in 
the sale of tickets in a lottery authorized by the citizenry of a par-
ticular State would not appear to involve an unsafe or unsound banking 
Practice. He anticipated, however, that it might be difficult at the 
hearing to avoid questions of a more general character with respect to 
the desirability of lotteries and participation in them by banks. He 
outlined certain views that he might, if necessary, express on a per-
sonal basis, and he then requested any preliminary reactions of the 
other members of the Board. 
Governor Daane recalled that the Treasury had frequently received 
letters suggesting that lotteries be conducted to raise funds for gov-
ernmental purposes. He believed that it might be helpful to obtain a 
copy of the letter used by the Treasury in replying to such suggestions. 
Governor Robertson said he had talked with Under Secretary Barr 
and that the Treasury had not, as of last Friday, received a request to 
testify. He would talk further with Mr. Barr after the latter returned 
to his office on Wednesday to make sure that there was a satisfactory 
e*change of views. 

2VM 
5/29/61 
-6-
Governor Daane then said he shared the general views that had 
been expressed by Governor Robertson against the use of lotteries. The 
question appeared to be how far the Board wanted to go in that direction 
and whether an argument should be made on the ground that the lottery 
was a regressive type of taxation, against the interest of most of the 
People. 
Governor Maisel indicated that although he likewise had a feel-
ing against the use of lotteries, he doubted whether a sound argument 
could be made on the ground that a regressive tax was involved. He 
noted the satisfaction enjoyed by many people in taking a risk and sug-
gested that the question was really whether the country would be better 
off if it avoided the spread of a type of gambling (State lotteries) 
even if there was an inclination on the part of many people to want to 
gamble. 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the staff review the debates 
that had occurred in the New Hampshire and New York legislatures. He 
expressed doubt whether Governor Robertson, in testifying, could succeed 
in distinguishing between personal views and those expressed on behalf 
of the Board. Aside from that, he thought it was doubtful that a lottery 
could be regarded as a tax, particularly if it was conducted on a volun-
tary basis. As to his own views, he was not strongly opposed to the 
conducting of a lottery under certain conditions. However, this was 
SeParate from the question whether banks should be engaged in the sale 

2185 
5/29/67 
-7-
of lottery tickets. He suggested that the testimony be restricted prin-
cipally to the latter point. 
Governor Robertson then read the preliminary draft of statement 
and said that a revised draft would be prepared. He had not yet had an 
opportunity to ascertain the views of the Comptroller of the Currency 
or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, but a check would be made 
with them before any statement was presented. He understood that the 
Comptroller had taken the position in correspondence with Congressman 
Patman that there was nothing in the National Bank Act that would enable 
him to prevent national banks from engaging in the sale of lottery tick-
ets. On the other hand, he understood that the Home Loan Bank Board was 
taking the position that this was not an incidental power of Federal 
savings and loan associations. 
Subcommittee on the Monetary Mechanism. Mr. Brill reported 
briefly on the meetings held at the Board's building last week to review 
the research carried out during the past year under the auspices of the 
Social Science Research Council's Subcommittee on the Monetary Mechanism 
He also noted certain problems that had arisen from the standpoint of 
carrying this work forward and said that plans would be formulated for 
Presentation to the Board, probably in connection with consideration of 
the 1968 budget. 
It,? 
<* 
Meeting with academic consultants. Mr. Brill's reference during 
his report to views on monetary policy expressed by one of the academi-
cians who participated in last week's meetings brought up the point that 

5/29/67 
-8-
the person concerned was one of the academic consultants who would meet 
with the Board on June 21, 1967. In response to a question by Governor 
Daane, who noted that he would of necessity be out of the country on 
June 21, Mr. Sherman explained the process by which the date had been 
fixed, which included a check with Board members' offices several weeks 
ago, and the reasons why the particular date had been chosen. Governor 
Daane then expressed the view that in the future it would seem desirable 
to consider the question at a meeting of the Board so that as many of 
the members as possible would be able to participate in the meetings 
with the academic consultants. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond (copy attached as 
-Item No. 5) approving the designation of Franklin D. Thompson, Jr., as 
special assistant examiner. 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
May 29, 1967, recommending that John Petersen of the University of 
Pennsylvania be engaged on a temporary contractual basis, with compen-
sation at the rate of $45 per day, to participate in a meeting of the 
Subcommittee on State and Local Government Financing of the System 
Research Advisory Committee to be held at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland on June 1, 1967, with the understanding that transportation 
expenses and per diem would be paid in accordance with the Board's 
travel regulations. 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
22, 1967, recommending that the Board pay the cost of transporting 
the household effects of Jan W. Karcz, Economist in the Division of 
International Finance, from Chapel Hill, North Carolina, to Washington, 
C. 

•i 
I 
2±:V7 
5/29/67 
-9-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Re-employment following maternity leave 
Grace Anne Burnes, Stenographer, Division of Examinations, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,936, effective May 29, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Alma Selvidge, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, effective the 
close of business June 9, 1967. 
iini 

2 1 3 8 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R H E S P D N D C N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D D A R D 
May 29, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Central Trust Company Rochester N. Y., 
Rochester, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Central Trust Company 
Rochester N. Y., Rochester, New York, of a branch at 3280 
Monroe Avenue, Town of Pittsford (Unincorporated Area), 
Monroe County, New York, provided the branch is established 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board trusts continuing attention is being 
given to your bank's capital and liquidity positions. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 

m.fy: 
o -f. ^ q 
D D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
5/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Lincoln Rochester Trust Company, 
Rochester, New York. 
Ci . 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Lincoln Rochester 
Trust Company, Rochester, New York, of a branch in the 
Pittsford Flaza Shopping Center at 3349 Monroe Avenue, 
Town of Pittsford (Unincorporated Area), Monroe County, 
New York, provided the branch is established within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(The letter to the Reserve Bank stated that the 
Board also had approved a six-month extension 
of the period allowed to establish the branch; 
and that if an extension should be requested, 
the procedure prescribed in the Board's letter 
of November 9, 1962 (S-1846), should be followed.) 
y 

>0t COi 
mf-mk 
ii^iffi'i-w^ 
IN-
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
5/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P G N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 29, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 11, 1967, referring 
to the Board's letter of September 27, 1962, which granted consent for 
your Corporation Lo purchase and hold shares of Morgan & Cie. S. A., 
Paris, France. The Board's consent prescribed certain conditions 
including a provision that Morgan & Cie. S. A. "will not engage in 
deposit or acceptance operations. . . . " 
As requested in your letter 
°f April 11, 1967, the restrictions in the provision as quoted are 
hereby rescinded. 
The Board of Governors grants consent to Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation ("MGIFC") to continue to hold the 
shares of Morgan & Cie. subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Morgan & Cie. if Morgan & Cie. 
at any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Morgan & Cie. estab-
lishes any branch or agency or takes any action or 
undertakes any operation in France or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to MGIFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MGIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Morgan & Cie. as it may require 
from time to time; and, 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2141 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
• -2-
(3) That any share acquisitions, or dispositions by 
Morgan & Cie. be reported under Section 211.8(d) 
of Regulation K in the same manner as if 
Morgan & Cie. were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends until further notice the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
second paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
on loans granted by Morgan & Cie. in France in the currency of that 
country. 
Very truly yours, 
. .(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
OF 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
5/29/67 
May 29, 1967 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44141 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to your letter of May 19, 1967, 
requesting approval of the acquisition by the Cleveland 
Reserve Bank of property adjoining the Bank!s head office 
building. 
The Board will interpose no objection to the 
acquisition of the proposed property and authorizes its 
purchase at a price of $775,000, plus incidental expenses 
appropriate to the acquisition, as stated in your letter. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman 
Secretary. 

m, • 
^oVcovV;-. 
•f^LRt^:-*' 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2143 
Item No. 5 
5/29/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R B C S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 31, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of May 25, 1967, the Board approves the 
designation of Franklin D. Thompson, Jr. as a special 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
