Minutes for June 8, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2KV7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, June 8, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Messrs. Forrestal and Sanders of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Fisher and Keir of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Examinations 
Approved items. The following letters were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to members of the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
... 
1 • ;. , 
o •. 
• i ! M: 
item numbers indicated. 

6/8/67 
-2-
Item No, 
Letter to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
1 
New York, New York, granting an extension of 
time within which to establish a branch at 
866 Third Avenue, Borough of Manhattan. 
Letter to State-Planters Bank of Commerce and 
2 
Trus ts, Richmond, Virginia, granting an exten-
sion of time to establish a branch at Chippenham 
Parkway and Forest Hill Avenue in Chesterfield 
County. 
Letters to Irving Trust Company, New York, New 
3-4 
York, and The First National Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois, granting permission for 
each of those banks to acquire shares of Inter-
national Commercial Bank, London, England, plus 
a proportionate share of long-term subordinated 
debt. 
- X i 
; 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
5 
City authorizing it to waive the assessment 
of a penalty incurred by Farmers National 
Bank, Stafford, Kansas, because of a defi-
ciency in its required reserves. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
6 
interposing no objection to plans for the con-
struction of a penthouse and installation of 
a new incinerator at the Detroit Branch. 
In connection with Items 3 and 4, Mr. Shay commented that the 
staff was aware of and would be studying the potential antitrust ques-
tions, which he felt might become of increasing consequence, incident 
to joint ownership of foreign financial institutions by groups comprised 
or including domestic banking institutions. 
Real estate loans by national banks. Chairman Sparkman of the 
Senate Banking and Currency Committee had requested the Board's views 

23tt9 
6/8/67 
-3-
on S. 1117, a bill to amend section 24 of the Federal Reserve Act 
relating to real estate loans by national banks. The bill was designed 
to relax certain statutory restrictions on real estate lending activi-
ties of national banks and, in several respects, to codify rulings by 
the Comptroller of the Currency. 
There was reported to be no pressure from the Committee for a 
report on the bill. However, the Legal Division had submitted a draft 
of report with a memorandum dated June 7, 1967, principally in the 
thought that Governor Maisel might be questioned with respect to S. 1117 
when he testified next week before the Subcommittee on Housing and Urban 
Affa irs of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee in connection with 
the Subcommittee's hearings on mortgage credit. 
In light of circumstances described by Mr. Cardon, which included 
an indication that the staff of the Committee had no current interest in 
raising questions with respect to S. 1117, the Board concluded that no 
report on the bill should be transmitted at this time. However, there 
was a general discussion of the provisions of the bill, and of the draft 
report, with a view to assisting the staff in preparing a revised draft 
should the bill become active and a report thereon be needed. 
In response to a question by Governor Daane, members of the 
staff reviewed the extent of relaxation of standards relating to real 
estate loans by national banks that had occurred in recent years, both 
by reason of statutory amendments and rulings of the Comptroller of the 

6/8/67 
-4-
Currency. The staff also reviewed the extent of further relaxation 
that would be accomplished by enactment of S. 1117. 
In reply to a question by Governor Brimmer, Mr. Hexter verified 
that the amendments embodied in S. 1117 were those that had been urged 
by representatives of the American Bankers Association in visits with 
Governor Brimmer and members of the Board's staff last year. He also 
confirmed that thus far the Board had taken no position with respect to 
such proposals. 
Governor Maisel referred to a provision of the bill that would 
Permit a national bank to make a loan in an amount up to 80 per cent of 
the appraised value of the real estate security with amortization on a 
25-year basis even if the term of the loan was for less than 25 years, 
so that a substantial portion of the loan might not be repayable until 
final maturity. Such a "balloon" payment was presently permissible in 
connection with 66-2/3 per cent loans. The draft letter would question 
the desirability of liberalizing the existing authority. The view 
would be expressed that "balloon" payments could lead to problems in 
refina 
ncing that would not otherwise arise and, accordingly, that they 
should not be encouraged further by Federal law or policy. Governor 
Maisel inquired as to the reasons why it was felt that a negative posi-
tion 
should be adopted. 
Governor Brimmer asked, in this regard, whether the staff would 
recommend that the Board object to "balloon" payments even in connection 
with 66-2/3 per cent loans. 

2841 
6/8/67 
-5-
Mr. Fisher commented that one of the problems in connection 
with "balloon" payments related to forecasting the state of credit con-
ditions at the end of a certain number of years. The language of the 
draft letter reflected consideration of the position of the borrower 
as well as the lender. Also, he believed that the enactment of liber-
alizing legislation might lead Federally-chartered savings and loan 
associations to seek a similar authority. He did not know whether the 
Practice had become widespread on the part of banks and therefore would 
not be prepared to recommend objecting to the present terms of the law. 
Mr. Solomon (Examinations) observed that the evils of "balloon" 
Payments had been amply demonstrated in the 1920's and said he believed 
it would be unwise to support a liberalization of the practice, which 
would run counter to the advances that had been made over the years 
toward writing real estate loans on a fully amortized basis. Whether 
the Board should recommend rolling back the present provisions of the 
law was another question. He did not believe that mortgages with 
'ball oon" payments were being written by banks to any great extent, 
and the problems involved were less serious when the owner's equity in 
the property was larger. He noted that an authorization that allowed 
real estate loans to fall due on a date when they were not yet amortized 
Would go much further than an authorization to bargain on terms at the 
end of a certain period. 
Governor Maisel then referred to a statement in the draft letter 
that although the Board had no objection to extending the permissible 

6/8/67 
-6-
maturity of construction loans to three years it believed that some con-
sideration should be given to maintaining the present dichotomy between 
real estate loans—which are not presently eligible for discount by a 
Federal Reserve Bank--and construction loans—which are eligible for 
discount as commercial paper. He noted that if the pending "eligible 
paper" bill should be passed this statement would not be relevant. 
Governor Maisel turned next to the portion of the draft letter 
dealing with the provisions of the bill under which a national bank 
would be authorized to make loans on residential buildings and on farm 
and ranch property in an amount up to 80 per cent of the appraised value 
of the real estate security for a term up to 30 years if instalment pay-
ments were sufficient to amortize the loan within 30 years from its date 
and "if the loan is being made for resale to another lender." The draft 
letter would point out that although the aggregate of such loans held by 
a bank could not exceed 10 per cent of its capital and surplus the effect 
°f such authorizations would be to relax from 25 years to 30 years the 
maturity requirements applicable to a conventional loan of the type 
l.cl 
described because any loan could be "made for resale to another lender." 
•t ... 
Governor Maisel said that he would rephrase the last part of 
the pertinent sentence to read "because any loan might be labeled as 
being made for resale to another lender and the administrative problem 
°f differentiating among these loans would be extremely difficult, if 
n°t impossible." 

2343 
6/8/67 
-7-
Other members of the Board indicated that they would accept the 
revised language, which staff members said reflected the intent of the 
draft. However, Governor Maisel then inquired whether, if the revised 
language reflected the true intent, it was a proper policy stance for 
the Board to adopt. 
Governor Maisel also referred to the policy question involved 
in the proposal to amend the last paragraph of section 24 to read as 
follows: 
Loans made to any borrower (i) where the [national 
banking] association looks for repayment by relying pri-
marily on the borrower's general credit standing and 
forecast of income, with or without other security, or 
(ii) where the association relies on other security as 
collateral for the loans (including but not limited to 
a guaranty of a third party), and where, in either case 
described in clause (i) or (ii) above, the association 
wishes to take a mortgage, deed of trust, or other 
instrument upon real estate (whether or not constitut-
ing a first lien) as a precaution against contingencies, 
such loans shall not be considered as real estate loans 
within the meaning of this section but shall be classed 
as ordinary non-real-estate loans. 
The draft letter would express the belief that such a provision 
ye -
Would make ineffectual the limitations of section 24 on real estate 
loans by national banks and should be enacted only if the Congress 
determined that real estate lending by national banks should be subject 
°nly to the 10 per cent of capital and surplus limitation on loans to 
i 
one person imposed by section 5200 of the Revised Statutes. Thus, it 
appeared that the main question raised by the bill was whether there 
e-. • i; 
should be qualitative restrictions on real estate loans by national 

2344 
6/8/67 
-8-
banks. Accordingly, in considering S. 1117 the Committee might want 
to examine the broad policy question of the appropriateness of qualita-
tive statutory restrictions on real estate loans made by Federally-
chartered institutions, including savings and loan associations as well 
as national banks, and the desirability of achieving greater uniformity 
in such restrictions among these institutions. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the provisions of the bill to 
which he had referred seemed to raise the whole question of honesty in 
lending practices. For example, if a bank made a loan to a corporation 
owning one property as its sole asset, obviously the bank would be 
looking to the property for repayment. It would be difficult to say 
that that was not a real estate loan. On the other hand, a bank might 
make a loan to a large department store in reliance primarily on the 
borrower's general credit standing and forecast of income even though 
it took a mortgage upon real estate as a precaution against contingen-
cies. The proposed amendments to the law appeared to Governor Maisel 
to present an opportunity for abuse on the part of lenders. 
Mr. Hexter observed that the last paragraph of section 24, as 
amended in 1959, states that loans made to manufacturers and industrial 
businesses where the bank looks for repayment out of the operations of 
the borrower's business but wishes to take a mortgage on the borrower's 
real estate as a precaution against contingencies, shall be classed as 
ordinary commercial loans. He noted that that provision had appeared 
to be a legitimate exemption when enacted in 1959. 

6/8/67 
-9-
Governor Maisel then suggested that if the Board reported on 
S. 1117 it should point out that there appeared to be no reason to go 
beyond the present provisions of the last paragraph of section 24. 
Other members agreed that this point might well be spelled out if a 
report should be made on the bill. 
Mr. Solomon reverted to the discussion of the provision that 
would extend from 25 years to 30 years the maturity requirement appli-
cable to a loan "if the loan is being made for resale to another lender. 
He agreed that Governor Maisel's restatement of the quoted language was 
Preferable. However, he felt that there was a question whether the 
Board should oppose such a liberalization strongly, since the limita-
tion of the aggregate of such loans to 10 per cent of a bank's capital 
and surplus seemed to provide a reasonable safeguard. In reply to a 
question, he pointed out that State member banks were subject to no 
U m i tation of Federal law in this regard and that, while State laws 
varied, national banks were at a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis 
State member banks in many States. 
Mr. Hexter agreed that the 10 per cent limitation was a strong 
A, 
safety factor. 
After some further discussion of the nature of the proposed 
authorization, including its limitations, several members of the Board 
e*pressed themselves as not particularly concerned about the proposal. 
There followed discussion of the implications of a statement 
lue •:. 
(as contained in the draft letter) that the Banking and Currency 

2846 
6/8/67 
-10-
Committee might wish to examine the broad policy question of the appro-
priateness of "any" qualitative statutory restrictions on real estate 
loans made by Federally-chartered institutions, and there was agreement 
that it would be desirable to avoid language that could be read to imply 
any prejudging of the question. 
Testimony before House Subcommittee. There had been distributed 
a draft of testimony to be presented by Governor Maisel before the Sub-
.• -ttl 
. ! 
committee on Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate Banking and Currency 
Committee on June 12, 1967, with respect to the mortgage market. 
The draft was regarded as generally satisfactory, but several 
changes of an editorial character for purposes of clarification were 
Proposed for Governor Maisel's consideration. 
It was understood that 
r 
• 
these suggestions would be borne in mind and that the testimony would 
be presented in a final form satisfactory to Governor Maisel. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments, effective the respective 
dates of entrance upon duty 
Division of Personnel Administration 
WUf x 
. !• : 
Name and title 
Basic annual salary 
Betty A. Franklin, Clerk-Typist 
$3,925 
Janet Gloria Gaskins, Stenographer 
4,936 
Darlene Malinda Grant, Stenographer 
4,776 
Lucille Marie Hawkins, Stenographer 
4,776 

23 
6/8/67 
7 
- 1 1 -
Appointments, effective the respective 
_dates of entrance upon duty 
Division of Personnel Administration 
Name and title 
Virginia P. Hoffman, Stenographer 
Joy Gail Hunter, Clerk-Typist 
Lindy Kay Morey, Clerk-Typist 
Florence Lola Newell, Clerk-Typist 
Maggie Kathaleen Nickens, Stenographer 
Linda Joy Seidman, Stenographer 
Delia Marie Whitt, Clerk-Typist 
Adjustment of entrance salary 
Basic annual salary 
$5,096 
3,925 
3,925 
3,925 
4,413 
4,269 
3,925 
Roger Craine, Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, basic annual salary at the rate of $6,664 rather than the 
rate previously approved, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Richard Ristow, Summer Research Assistant, Division of Research 
and Statistics, basic annual salary at the rate of $6,451 rather than 
the rate previously approved, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Lula B. Bierly, Clerk, Division of International Finance, effective 
the close of business June 9, 1967. 
Sandra 0. Hale, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statis-
tics, effective the close of business June 9, 1967. 
Mildred C. Harris, Charwoman, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective June 30, 1967. 
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Charles L. Camp, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, to 
Work as a porter on a part-time basis. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
o o 
Item No. 1 
6/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System extends to June 22, 1968, the time 
within which Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, 
New York, New York, may establish a branch at 866 
Third Avenue, Borough of Manhattan, New York, New 
York. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl' E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2849 
BC3ARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
• F THE 
6/8/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 8, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
State-Planters Bank of Commerce 
and Trusts, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23214 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System extends to December 23, 1967, the 
time within which State-Planters Bank of Commerce 
and Trusts, Richmond, Virginia, may establish a 
branch in Chesterfield County, Virginia, at the 
southeast corner of Chippenham Parkway and Forest 
Hill Avenue. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
2 3 5 n 
Item No. 3 
6/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 8, 1967. 
1 
Mi 
Irving Trust Company, 
°ne Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentl emen: 
i'^K 
As requested in your letters of May 2 and 19, 1967, the 
oard of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Sections 9 and 25 
t the Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Irving Trust Company, 
ew York, New York, to purchase and hold approximately 22.2 per cent 
* the shares of International Commercial Bank ("ICB"), London, 
W a n d , at a cost of approximately US$1,960,000, provided such shares 
e acquired within one year from the date of this letter. It is 
nderstood that ICB will also issue 20-year debentures and that the 
oportionate share for your bank will be US$3,640,000 for an aggregate 
lI*vestment of US$5,600,000. 
t
 
T h e foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
vestment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans and 
vestments of Irving Trust Company and Irving International Financing 
rPoration, will not cause the total of such loans and investments to 
^ ceed the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
straint effort now in effect, and that due consideration is being 
n to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 
11 
MlSft-

' 
o J 
® 
a:,. 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
6/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 8, 1967. 
The First National Bank of Chicago, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
»• < 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of May 2 and 19, 1967 the 
aoard of Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 2s'of the 
federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for The First National Bank 
t Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, to purchase and hold approximately 
L
P
C
r 
C G n t ° f t h G s h a r e s o f International Commercial Bank ("ICB") 
ondon England, at a cost of approximately US$1,960,000, provided 
' 
such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
At is understood that ICB will also issue 20-year debentures and that 
»e proportionate share for your bank will be US$3,640,000 for an 
aggregate investment of US$5,600,000. 
tho 4 
T h e f o r e8° i nS consent is given with the understanding that 
ne investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
the r r T
t
S ° f
1
T h e F i r s t N a t i ™a l Bank of Chicago, will not cause 
° f s u c h l o a n s a n d investments to exceed the guidelines 
stablished under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort now 
Conh < 
j a? 
t h a t d U e c o n s i d«ation is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Karl E. Bakke 
Karl E. Bakke, 
Assistant Secretary. 

M : ••• 
9 ' K O 
i'l' 
)0?COv 
BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
6/8/67 
• • K r ^ V 
I 
V \ v 
; 
• 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 8, 1967 
Mr. John T. Boysen, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Federal Reserve Station, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Boysen: 
This refers to your letter of May 22 regarding a 
penalty of $44„38 incurred by the Farmers National Bank, 
Stafford, Kansas, on a deficiency of $270,000 for the 
reserve computation period ended May 10, 1967. 
It is noted that the deficiency resulted when 
funds the member bank intended to have transferred to 
its reserve account to avoid a deficiency were through 
an inadvertence not transferred, that the bank has not 
had a deficiency in reserves during the past four years, 
and that the penalty in question cannot be waived under 
the authority given in the Board's letter of October 10, 1949. 
In the circumstances, the Board authorizes your 
Bank to waive assessment of the penalty of $44.38 due for the 
reserve computation period ended May 10, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

235: ? 
&
M
; 
BOARD n F G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m No> 
6 
D r T H E 
6/8/67 ' 
FEDERAL R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C 1 K R E B P Q N U E K E E 
T O 
T H E 
El O A R D 
June 8, 1967 
ill 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
P.O. Box 834, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
TV'.' 
iiv 
WiM{ 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
This refers to your letter of May 19 requesting approval 
'to proceed with plans for the construction of a penthouse and 
installation of a new incinerator at the Detroit Branch. 
The Board has reviewed the information submitted with 
your letter and has noted that (a) the present incinerator is 
air eady being operated beyond safe capacity, (b) continuing 
increases are expected in the volume of unfit currency, food 
coupons, and old records requiring incineration, and (c) the 
Proposed installation of an additional 1,000-pound capacity 
incinerator appears to offer the best solution. 
Accordingly, 
the Board will interpose no objection to your proceeding with 
this project and authorizes an expenditure of approximately 
$135 ,700 for the work, including architects' fees and contingencies, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
