Minutes for June 17, 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

o'>er * 
m ^ I J JL 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 17, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Par tee, Gramley, Williams, Sigel, 
Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Weiner, Ettin, Fisher, 
Gehman, Kichline, Peret, Thompson, Trueblood, 
and Zeisel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
t; ! t, 
'l i c • " 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, Katz, 
Wood, Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Karcz, Kohn, 
Maroni, and Roxon of the Division of Inter-
national Finance 
_Economic review. The Division of International Finance 
rePorted on international financial developments, following which the 
Division of Research and Statistics discussed domestic economic and 
redit conditions. The reports were based to some extent on material 
prePared for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee, 

1. 
o o r o 
6/17/68 
-2-
and copies of the relevant documents have been placed in the Committee's 
files. 
Members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, 
and Reynolds then withdrew and the following entered the room: 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mes srs. Shull and Lawrence of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
o f Commercial State Bank, Laurinburg, North Carolina, and First State 
Bank & Trust Company, Bessemer City, North Carolina, into First Union 
National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, was approved 
unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
There is little existing competition between First 
Union National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, and 
Commercial State Bank, Laurinburg, and potential for 
increased competition is somewhat limited. While the 
Proposal would not result in any particular change in 
banking resources within the two areas involved in this 
proposal, it would slightly increase the concentration 
°f banking resources in the State. The overall effect 
°f the proposed merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Four offices of First Union National Bank of North 
Carolina, Charlotte, are within about 7 miles of First 
State Bank & Trust Company, Bessemer City, and the pro-
posed merger would eliminate the existing competition 
between them. The proposal would also geographically 
e*pand First Union's operations in the Gaston County 
area, eliminate an alternative source of banking ser-
vices, increase the concentration of commercial bank 

O * " * » 
6/17/68 
-3-
deposits in the Gaston County area and to a slight extent 
in North Carolina. The overall competitive effect of the 
proposed merger would be adverse. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum dated June 14, 1968, 
from Mr. Broida there was submitted a draft of policy record entry 
covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on 
April 2, 1968. The draft entry took account of comments received from 
Committee members and staff following distribution of a preliminary 
draft. The entry was now presented for approval by the Board. 
After discussion, the entry was approved unanimously. It was 
understood that it would now be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presi-
dents, primarily for information but with an indication of the date by 
which any further comments should be received. It was contemplated 
that the entry would be released to the press about July 1, 1968, after 
f l n a l review by the Board. 
Request of Senator Proxmire (Item No. 1). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from Governor Mitchell dated June 13, 1968, 
n°ting that when he testified before the Joint Economic Committee on 
M a y 15> Chairman Proxmire had pressed vigorously for some procedure 
c 
r eliciting more debate and discussion, and therefore more under-
standing> of monetary policy. The Senator at one point had requested 
a regular quarterly hearing, at least whenever there was a departure 
in t? 
Federal Reserve policy, so that the Congress "will be in a position 
t o be enlightened." Governor Mitchell believed it desirable for the 
B° a r d to respond affirmatively but reasonably to the request. 
'Mi'* '••.. 

« > ry, 
6/17/68 
-4-
A draft reply to Senator Proxmire, attached to Governor 
Mitchell's memorandum, pointed out that the annual hearings held by 
the Joint Economic Committee on the Economic Report of the President 
had become an important occasion for reviewing the prospects for the 
economy, particularly as they were envisaged in the formulation of the 
Proposed budget program. It was suggested that it might be useful for 
fche Committee to explore at that time, in more detail than heretofore, 
the implication of the economic prospects for financial markets and 
flows of funds, and for monetary policy generally. With this bench-
mark in hand, subsequent meetings might be called during the year 
whenever, in the judgment of the Committee, the economy appeared to 
he deviating significantly from the course outlined in the Economic 
Report, with particular emphasis on changes in financial flows and 
markets arising from new developments. The letter would suggest, how-
ever, that the timing of follow-up meetings be fixed on an ad hoc basis. 
Governor Mitchell described the tenor of the discussion during 
which Senator Proxmire had made his request and stated why he thought 
the type of compliance envisaged in the draft reply might be considered 
Satisfactory. 
It seemed clear, he said, that a staff presentation alone 
would not suffice; therefore, it was his suggestion that the letter 
state that designated Board members would meet with the Committee. 
Governor Daane observed that it was traditional for the Chair-
m a n of the Board to testify during the Committee's hearings on the 

*" >. ry 
<— 
6/17/68 
-5-
Economic Report. He wondered whether the addition of a presentation 
by the Board's staff at that time might not run the risk of divulging 
diffe rences from the projection of the Council of Economic Advisers, 
with resultant complications. 
Governor Mitchell replied that the thought was not to make a 
complete independent projection, which might differ to some extent 
from the Council's model, but merely to elaborate on the implications 
°f the Council's projection in terms of monetary problems. 
In further discussion of this point Governor Daane reiterated 
his misgivings about a presentation by the Board's staff, even if it 
were restricted, and suggested that a delay of at least a calendar 
quarter be considered. 
The staff pointed out, however, that the Council did not ordi-
narily present interim projections. Therefore, the only recourse would 
to offer an independent projection by the Board's staff, which also 
Would involve problems. 
This led to consideration of what type of presentation the 
^°ard might be expected to make to the Committee periodically. There 
was general agreement that it would be unwise to offer to present 
regularly the staff's continuing economic projections and the Board's 
assessment of them. On the other hand, it was the consensus that if, 
during the course of the year, there should be developments in the 
ec°nomy differing significantly from the projection presented at the 

n o 
' » 
6/17/68 
-6-
beginning of the year, some formula should be devised for alerting the 
Committee, after which the Board, or designated members thereof, would 
necessarily be on call for discussion if the Committee so desired. 
In further regard to the procedure envisaged at the beginning 
°f the year, the staff confirmed Governor Mitchell's view that the 
Council's model should be accepted as a basic assumption, within which 
the Board's staff would describe the monetary conditions that might be 
expected to prevail if the model proved valid. This would avoid prob-
lems that might arise in preparing and making public a separate projec-
tion. it was noted that customarily the Board's staff had worked 
closely with the staff of the Council in formulating the latter's 
model, which minimized the risk of significantly different views being 
Presented. 
After further comments were exchanged on this point, Governor 
^ a a n e agreed that perhaps the use of the Council's projection as a 
Point of departure would present the fewest difficulties. 
Nevertheless, 
he was concerned that the Board could thus find itself in the position 
°f appearing to subscribe to an analysis with which it might not neces-
Sar*ly agree. 
t r: t •,, _ 
. 
Staff observed that it was necessary to base any projection on 
assumptions. The Federal Open Market Committee, in receiving staff 
Pr°jections, understood that they did not establish monetary policy 
f 
r the ensuing year. The members of the Joint Economic Committee 

«r»r>£r> 
6/17/68 
-7-
presumably would also be aware that the assumptions going into a pro-
jection in February should not be regarded as setting an inflexible 
course for the year ahead. 
After agreement had been reached on certain changes in the 
draft in light of the foregoing discussion, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to Chairman Proxmire in the form attached as Item 
N o ^ l , 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: There was sent today, 
with the approval of Vice Chairman Robertson, 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
(copy attached as Item No. 2) regarding inspec-
tions of the operations of persons registered 
with the Bank under Regulation G. 
Governor Sherrill today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
^ointments 
Paula J. Bischoff as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
ration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective the 
a t e of entrance upon duty. 
^ 
Betty Jean Gehrett as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, w i t h basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective 
e date of entrance upon duty. 
Melissa Anne Tegge as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
ation, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective the 
a t e of entrance upon duty. 
Donata Price as Graphic Illustrator (Trainee), Division of Data 
^ocessing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective 
e date of entrance upon duty. 
„ 
Minnie L. Hill as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Administrative 
ervices, with annual salary at the rate of $2,014 (4-hour day), 
Active June 18, 1968. 

6/17/68 
-8-
Appointments under Youth Opportunity Program 
Appointment of the following persons as Summer Trainees, with 
compensation at the rate of $1.60 per hour, effective the respective 
dates of entrance upon duty, with the understanding that they would 
be assigned to various divisions of the Board's staff but that, for 
budgetary and payroll purposes, they would be carried in the Special 
Project-Youth Opportunity Program in the Division of Administrative 
Services: 
James R. Craven 
Vincent Jerome Price 
James Lindsay, Jr. 
Michael T. Thomas 
Kenneth C. Lyles 
Sandra Harrietta Walker 
Beverly E. Murray 
Wendelin Watts 
Jerome Perry 
George A. Yates 
Lucille E. Hoft, from the position of Secretary in the Office 
the Secretary to the position of Secretary in the Division of 
Examinations, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
^ >565, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Rose Noonan, from the position of Secretary in the Office of 
e Secretary to the position of Special Assistant Federal Reserve 
Xaminer in the Division of Examinations, with no change in basic 
annual salary at the rate of $6,547, effective July 7, 1968. 
oyment following maternity leave 
Jo Ann L. Innocente, General Assistant, Division of Data 
yocessing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $8,534, effec-
V e ^ n e 17, 1968. 
^£ggtance of resignations 
James T. Clark, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
Active the close of business July 5, 1968. 
Ann Marie G. Petro, Secretary, Division of Research and Statis-
Cs> effective the close of business June 20, 1968. 
Pro 
J ° y c e T- Plummer, Statistical Assistant, Division of Data 
Cessing, effective the close of business June 28, 1968. 

• 
6/17/68 
-9-
: ... 
On June 17, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
3 
approving the appointment of Robert Paul Beck as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
4 
aPproving the appointment of David Clark Swanson 
a s assistant examiner. 
•(>'V " . 
^L-the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Mid-Wis Bankshares, Inc., Madison, 
5 
Wisconsin, granting an extension of time within 
which to become a bank holding company through 
he acquisition of shares of two banks in Madison. 
.. S v C 
V'.? 
; < Q. • .* 
i "C.J 
<.'V: w 
.'h-ii, 
\ , 
ai . ; 
' • - . ft. 
II > C: 
4 ?<k, 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m 
N q 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
6 / 1 7 / 6 8 
_„ 
WASHINGTON 
G E O R G E W. M I T C H E L L 
member of the board 
i:» . . •:'•,>••" i 
• >, 
June 17, 
1968 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
Chairman, Joint Economic Committee, 
New Senate Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
Dear Senator Proxmire: 
. 
At the hearings on monetary guidelines last month, you 
a desire for more frequent discussion between the Joint 
a ^ n o m i c Committee and the Board on current economic developments 
their reflection in various financial indicators, including the 
cha^ 
The Board welcomes the opportunity for further inter-
dev^ 6 
v*"ews o n these matters, and will be happy to cooperate in 
eveloping arrangements to achieve this end. 
g , 
There is one benchmark occasion each year when a regularly 
by 
e d consultation might be desirable. The annual hearings held 
pr
 t*le 
Economic Committee on the Economic Report of the 
ldent have become an important occasion for reviewing the 
env.£ 
C t s for the economy, particularly as these prospects are 
mi uSa®ec* 
the formulation of the proposed budget program. It 
<iet 
u s e f u l for the Committee to explore at this time, in more 
than has been the case heretofore, the implication of these 
for ° m i C p r o sP e cts for financial markets and flows of funds, and 
prea^°netary policy generally. This could be done by a formal staff 
membe n t a t i 0 n' c o u P l e d wi-th such questioning of designated Board 
r s as the Committee might desire. 
caii , 
With this benchmark in hand, subsequent meetings might be 
the 6 
d u r i n 8 the year whenever, in the judgment of the Committee, 
o u ti? C O n o my appears to be deviating significantly from the course 
in tji
ned i n the Economic Report, with particular emphasis on changes 
metlt
 6 financial flows and markets arising from these new develop-
be f ' 
seems to me that the timing of follow-up meetings should 
deter
X^d ° n a n a d hoc basis. Such meetings held on a fixed, pre-
ened schedule for the purpose of discussing economic and policy 

The Honorable William Proxmire 
-2-
developments can too easily become routine and redundant. It 
would serve no useful purpose to hold hearings merely to recount 
information already provided to the Congress and the public 
through the continuing publication of the texts of the policy 
records of Federal Open Market Committee meetings--which are 
n^de available with approximately a one-quarter lag--and through 
the reviews of economic developments appearing in our Federal 
eserve Bulletin, particularly the semi-annual surveys of banking 
and monetary policy developments. The occasions for direct inter-
change of views during the year would probably best be reserved 
such times as major new developments in the economy and/or 
l n m°netary policy indicate the need for discussion. 
I am confident that some arrangements along these lines 
^ould be mutually helpful and informative. After some experience, 
e format and scheduling could be modified to make them even more 
useful, but I agree that a start in this direction should be made. 
w H l be most interested in your reaction to these proposals. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) George Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell 
r 
•f' yt.'SA 
V. ^CH-f, \ 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
6/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 17, 1968. 
Mr. George Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
30 Pearl Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02106 
°ear Mr. Ellis: 
This is to advise you that, in accordance with arrangements 
roade between members of the Board's staff and Mr. Laurence Stone of 
your Bank, Messrs. Bruce D. Shuter, Warren Shantz, John F. Burke, 
Robert B. Higgins, Edward F. Kipfstuhal and Daniel F. Sheehy have 
been authorized, on behalf of the Board of Governors and under the 
direction of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, to make an in-
spection of the business operations of persons registered with your 
Bank under 5207.1(a) of Regulation G, pursuant to section 17(b) of 
fche Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The purpose of these in-
spections is to enable the Board to perform its functions under that 
Act. 
These inspections are to be completed within the period 
o f June 18 to June 28, 1968, although the Board may authorize 
additional time if necessary. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/17/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T Q 
T H E 
B D A R D 
June 18, 1968 
Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 12, 1968, the Acting Director 
* of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Robert Paul Beck as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. 
" Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
" Assistant Secretary. 

2 2 6 4 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m No< 
4 
T H E 
6/17/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
> ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 18, 1968 
I M i , 
" , * 
J »Hi5v 
Mr. L. G. Gable, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Gable: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in Mr. Strothman's letter of June 12, 1968, the 
Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of David Clark 
Swanson as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, effective June 18, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

m 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
(,.., HA 7-21.0 
J u n e 
1 7 , 
1 9 6 8 
OO 
i ~* * 
Item No. 5 
6/17/68 
Mr. Collins H. Ferris, President 
Mid-Wls Bankshares, Inc. 
23 West Main Street 
Madison, Wisconsin 53701 
Dear Mr. Ferris: 
' • '»! J • • V . • •! : (' 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank grants an extension of time of 
thirty days from June 20, 1968, within which Mid-Wis Bank shares, 
Inc., may becorae a bank holding canpany through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Madison Bank and 
Trust Company and The West gate Bonk, both of Madison, Wisconsin. 
CO' j. 
cu 
Very truly yours, 
"A Ui i c / ' 
Lei and Ross 
Vice President 
.> L'. 
E0F:rk 
c c - Board of Governors 
'93 
C
O
P
Y 
