FR 609 
Minutes for 
October 2, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 2, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Heyde, Lynch, Mertz, and Via of 
the Legal Division 
Messrs. Fisher, Lawrence, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Messrs. Burton, Goodfellow, and Kline of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available 
members of the Board at the meeting held on Friday, September 27, 
1968, as recorded in the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by 
unanimous vote. 

10/2/68 
-2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the item 
numbers indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
1 
New York, New York, granting consent to purchase 
additional shares of Societe Generale de Banques 
en Cote d'lvoire, Abidjan, Ivory Coast. 
Letter to Wachovia International Investment 
2 
Corporation, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
requiring the disposition of stock of Cayman 
Reef Development Company, Ltd., Cayman Islands. 
Letter to Republic International Company, Dallas, 
3 
Texas, granting consent to purchase shares of 
Adela Investment Company, S.A., Luxembourg. 
Letter to Citizens State Bank of Corpus Christi, 
4 
Corpus Christi, Texas, approving its application 
for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
5 
noting its proposal to retain an accounting firm 
at a cost of between $25,000 and $30,000 to review 
the Audit Department of the Bank. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
6 
approving the payment of salaries to John T. 
Keane as Assistant Vice President and Ronald B. 
Gray as Acting Cashier at the Buffalo Branch at 
the rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
7 
approving the appointment of James R. Morrison 
as Vice President in charge of the bank examina-
tions function and the payment of salaries to 
five officers at rates fixed by the Bank's Board 
of Directors. 

3578 
10/2/68 
-3-
Investment in bank premises. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated September 26, 1968, from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation recommending approval of the application of Security 
First Bank & Trust Co., Grand Haven, Michigan, for permission to invest 
$1.3 million in bank premises. The bank's capital position in December 
1967 was computed at 65 per cent of requirement according to the ABC 
form. Although the bank expected to sell an additional $600,000 in 
capital notes, the proposed investment would lower its capital position 
to about 60 per cent, based on the ABC form. The Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago considered the bank's asset condition satisfactory, manage-
ment competent, and capital position not alarming. However, since the 
building proposal would accentuate the capital inadequacy, the Reserve 
Bank did not feel that a favorable recommendation was warranted. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation cited as support 
for its favorable recommendation the bank's willingness to provide an 
additional $600,000 of capital and the evident need for larger quarters. 
The bank's capital position was not considered a matter of serious 
concern in view of the bank's good asset condition and satisfactory 
management. In addition, the bank's capital position compared favor-
ably with the average of insured commercial banks in Michigan. Vice 
President Ross of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago had indicated 
that he would not be seriously concerned if the Board approved the 
application. 

3573 
10/2/68 
-4-
Governor Brimmer inquired why the Reserve Bank had been willing 
to retreat from its position, which appeared to have been well reasoned. 
He observed that it was not customary for the Board's staff to use 
State averages as criteria. The ABC form was available, and until a 
more precise measure was developed it would seem appropriate to use 
the form as a basis for reaching conclusions. As a minimum, he believed 
the member bank should be informed pf the capital position that would 
be considered adequate and expected to work toward it. 
Mr. Eger tson noted that the Division was recommending that the 
$600,000 capital addition contemplated by the bank be made a require-
ment. He noted also that State averages had been used as a measurement 
in this case principally because they had been cited by the president 
of the member bank in support of his contention that the bank's capital 
was not inadequate. 
Governor Robertson indicated a disposition to vote against 
approving the request, as did Governor Brimmer, who added that he did 
not think approval would be appropriate until the member bank had done 
more than it apparently intended to do to improve its capital position. 
Governor Maisel observed that although computations according 
to the ABC form provided a warning they did not necessarily mean that 
supervisory action was required. In the present case, given the type 
of operation of the particular member bank and its proposal to increase 
capital by $600,000, there did not appear to be a cause for alarm. He 
preferred to have decisions based on that type of analysis. 

10/2/68 
-5-
Governor Mitchell pointed out that the capital inadequacy, to 
the extent it existed, had persisted for some time, not having been 
corrected in the ordinary course of supervision. The situation simply 
had been highlighted by the pending request. If pressure was now 
brought to bear upon this particular institution, consistency would 
seem to require that pressure likewise be brought to bear on other 
State member banks similarly situated. 
Governor Robertson agreed that the ABC form did not provide 
final answers. As in the present case, however, when a proposed trans-
action would reduce a capital ratio that was already low, it would not 
be desirable, in his opinion, to ignore computations according to the 
form. Also, he did not believe it wise to go against the Reserve 
Bank's judgment. 
After further discussion, it was agreed to defer a decision on 
the application until additional members of the Board could participate 
Testimony on problems of urban rehabilitation. There had been 
distributed a draft of statement on financial problems of urban rehabil 
itation to be presented by Governor Maisel on October 4, 1968, before 
the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate Committee on 
Banking and Currency. 
Members of the Board having indicated that they had no sugges-
» . 
tions, it was understood that the statement would be, presented in a 
final form satisfactory to Governor Maisel. 

10/2/68 
-6-
Reports on competitive factors. There had been distributed a 
draft of report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of York Savings 
and Loan Association, Biddeford, Maine, with Biddeford Savings Bank, 
also of Biddeford. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the Banking Markets Section 
had emphasized the small size of the institutions involved. He would 
be inclined to view the competitive effect of the proposed merger as 
slightly adverse rather than adverse. Governor Maisel noted that 
several other institutions in the area also were specialized, so that 
in effect only a combination of several of them would be equivalent 
to one commercial bank. Governor Mitchell spoke in favor of retaining 
the present conclusion because there appeared to be a considerable 
amount of potential competition in the area that was subdued because 
of interlocking directorates. 
The report was then approved for transmittal to the Corporation, 
Governor Brimmer's reservation being noted. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
The proposed merger of York Savings and Loan 
Association, Biddeford, and Biddeford Savings Bank, 
Biddeford, would eliminate a significant amount of 
competition and further increase the concentration 
of IPC time and savings deposits and mortgage loans 
in the Biddeford-Saco-Old Orchard Beach area. While 
several alternatives for time and savings accounts 
and mortgage loans, including the fourth largest bank 
in the State, would remain in the area, the competi-
tive effect of the proposed merger would be adverse. 

10/2/68 
-7-
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The County Bank, N.A., 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, and The Everett National Bank, Everett, 
Massachusetts, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comp-
troller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The County 
Bank, N.A., Cambridge, and The Everett National Bank, 
Everett, both subsidiaries of-Shawmut Association, Inc., 
Boston, Massachusetts, a registered bank holding company, 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Unanimous approval was given to a report, for transmittal to 
the Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of Northampton County Trust Bank, Cape Charles, 
Virginia, into Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia. The conclu-
sion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of the 
West, Bellevue, Washington, with Bank of Kent, Kent, Washington, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclu-
sion stated that consummation of the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
Application of Kingston Trust Company (Items 8 and 9). There 
had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's action on September 16, 1968, approving the application of 

U i ) 
10/2/68 
-8-
Kingston Trust Company, Kingston, New York, to merge The Kerhonkson 
National Bank, Kerhonkson, New York. 
After discussion during which agreement was reached on several 
changes in the draft statement, the issuance of the order and statement 
was authorized. Copies of the documents, in the form in which they 
were issued, are attached as Items 8 and 9. 
Request by Senator Proxmire- regarding discount proposals (Item 
No. 10). In a letter of September 20, 1968, Senator Proxmire referred 
to recent testimony by Governor Mitchell before the Joint Economic 
Committee regarding proposals emanating from the study of the discount 
mechanism. Senator Proxmire spoke of the desirability of having the 
Banking and Currency Committees review the proposals, which review 
probably would not be feasible until sometime during the next Congress, 
and requested that the Board delay implementation of changes in the 
discount mechanism until hearings could be scheduled. A draft of 
reply to Senator Proxmire had been distributed that referred to the 
procedures, and the time required, to issue a revision of Regulation A, 
Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks. 
Governor Brimmer mentioned reasons why he felt that the time 
table for implementation of the proposals should be made as definite 
as possible. Among other things, he had been asked whether the Board 
doubted its authority to effectuate the proposals. • 
There ensued a discussion during which the view was expressed 
that a revision of Regulation A could hardly be published for comment 

10/2/68 
-9-
before the end of January 1969 at the earliest. Comments also were 
made on the possibility that hearings might be held on a modification 
of the so-called eligible paper bill, and on the bearing that such 
hearings might have on a revision of Regulation A. The thought was 
expressed that, while it was not feasible to commit the Board to a 
specific t ime table, neither was it necessary to give the impression 
that the holding of hearings must be hastened to preclude untimely 
implementat ion of the discount proposals. 
At the conclusion of the discussion a reply to Senator Proxmire 
in the form attached as Item No. 10 was approved unanimously. 
Application of Tennessee Financial Corporation (Item No. 11). 
Mr. O'Connell referred to the pending application of Tennessee Finan-
cial Corporation, Kingsport, Tennessee, for approval of the formation 
of a bank holding company, regarding which the Board had ordered an 
oral presentation to be held on October 9, 1968. Six opposing banks 
had now retained counsel, who had requested that the oral presentation 
be deferred for two weeks, or at least ten days, to provide an oppor-
tunity to prepare data. It was understood that the banks had authorized 
their counsel and an economist to present their case. 
Mr. O'Connell pointed out that any change in date should be 
announced in the Federal Register, as the original date had been. He 
» > 
suggested that as an alternative the Board might consider holding the 
oral presentation as scheduled, but allowing the protesting banks an 

358-5 
10/2/68 
-10-
additional period, perhaps ten days, to submit documentation, with 
the assurance that it would be given consideration. 
interested primarily in hearing the bankers concerned rather than 
their counsel. Governor Brimmer added that he had agreed to the oral 
presentation principally for public relations reasons, that the appli-
cant apparently had endeavored to meet the time schedule, and that he 
believed the oral presentation should be held as scheduled, with an 
opportunity for the protesting banks to submit documentation there-
after if they so desired. Other members of the Board also expressed 
the view that it would be desirable to make known to the protesting 
bankers that they should be available and prepared to respond to 
questions at the oral presentation. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to counsel for 
the protesting banks in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer commented that they would be 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3586 
Item No. 1 
10/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
16 Wall Street, 
New York, New York 0 
10015 
Gentlemen; 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 13, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
an additional 6,000 shares of the stock of Societe Generale 
de Banques en Cote d'lvoire, Abidjan, Ivory Coast, at an 
approximate cost of $120,000, provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter,, 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation and Bankers Trust Company, and that due con-
sideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary„ 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
o ^ N < 
Item No. 2 
10/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968. 
Wachovia International Investment Corporation, 
Wachovia Building, 
Third and Main Streets, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina. 
27102 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of April 18, July 9, 
and August 26, 1968, regarding the acquisition by your Corporation 
("WIIC") of 1,000 shares of Cayman Reef Development Company, Ltd. 
("CRDC"), Cayman Islands, for $100,000, without the required prior 
approval of the Board of Governors. 
The Board cannot condone acquisitions of stock by Corpo-
rations chartered under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
("Edge Corporations") without prior approval when such approval is 
required. Furthermore, it would appear that the activities which 
resulted in and are incidental to the present holding of the stock 
of CRDC by WIIC are outside the statutory purposes of Edge Corpora-
tions. It is the Board's interpretation of the first sentence of 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act that Corporations chartered 
thereunder are to restrict their activities, whether direct or 
through the agency, ownership or control of other institutions, 
to that of international banking and financing operations. The 
corollary to this interpretation is that management or operating 
activities other than in this area normally are inappropriate and 
ultra vires for Edge Corporations. 
According to the information available to the Board, WIIC 
committed itself to make an investment in the stock of a land holding 
company in the Cayman Islands and, on the basis of that, a further 
commitment was made for the purchase of land on Grand Cayman Island. 
It is understood that the commitment by WIIC was made in the belief 
that it was within the then effective General Consent provisions of 
Regulation K, namely that the acquisition of the stock would be 
"likely to further the development of United States foreign commerce." 

Wachovia International 
Investment Corporation 
- 2 -
Subsequently, WIIC was apparently released from its commitment to 
acquire the stock, but still felt that it "had a legal, as well as 
a moral, obligation to take up the purchase of the land." To ac-
complish the latter, CRDC was formed and WIIC acquired 1,000 of its 
then 1,350 outstanding shares. Since then other shares of CRDC 
have been sold so that WIIC now holds slightly under 50 per cent. 
However, there is nothing in the record to show that, since the 
formation of CRDC at your instigation, there has been any relinquish-
ment by WIIC of CRDC's management and operating activities, which 
are simply the holding and possible future development of real es-
tate. Since such activities are of neither a banking or financing 
nature they are outside the purposes of Edge Corporations. 
The 
Board, therefore, advises Wachovia International Investment Corpora-
tion, in accordance with Section 211.8(b)(l)(ii) of Regulation K that 
the continued holding of stock in Cayman Reef Development Company, 
Ltd., Cayman Islands, is inappropriate under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation K. 
It is requested that you keep the Board informed, through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, as to the disposition of the 
stock of CRDC, which in any event should be completed within three 
months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
( B ^ 
Q 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3589 
B D A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R B 
D F T H E 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/2/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968. 
Republic International Company, 
P. 0 o Box 5961, 
Dallas, Texas„ 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 23, 1968, the Board of Governors 
grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 
20 shares of stock of Adela Investment Company S.A., 
Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $200,000, pro-
vided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also 
approves the purchase and holding of the above shares in 
excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital and 
surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation and Republic National Bank of Dallas. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Of GOw-. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
10/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Citizens State Bank of 
Corpus Christi, 
Corpus Christi, Texas. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Citizens State Bank of Corpus Christi, 
Corpus Christi, Texas, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Dall as, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of its 
depositors, and, except with the permission of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such bank 
shall not cause or permit any change to be made in the 
general character of its business or in the scope of the 
corporate powers exercised by it at the time of admission 
to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
It appears that the bank possesses certain powers which are 
not being exercised and which are not necessarily required in the 
conduct of a banking and trust business; these are certain trust 
powers and the authority to issue, sell and negotiate notes, bonds, 
evidences of indebtedness, and investment certificates. Attention is 
invited to the fact that, should the bank desire to exercise any 

3591 
Citizens State Bank of Corpus Christi 
2. 
powers not actually exercised at the time of admission to membership, 
it will be necessary under condition of membership numbered 1 to 
obtain the permission of the Board of Governors before exercising 
them. In this connection, the Board understands that there has been 
no change in the scope of the corporate powers exercised by the bank 
since the date of its application for membership. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank
fs 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be 
determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's status 
as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
of Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Enclosure. 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R 5 
• F T H E 
Item No. 5 
10/2/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
•f^LRES^ 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
October 2, 1968. 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
This is to acknowledge receipt of your letter 
of September 20, 1968, advising that your Board of 
Directors has approved the hiring of the firm of Peat, 
Marwick, Mitchell, & Co. to make another review of the 
Audit Department of your Bank. The Board of Governors 
has noted the cost of this review and the reasons for 
taking this step at the present time and appreciates 
your advice of this decision. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
10/2/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . William F . Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear M r . Treiber: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salaries to M r . Keane as Assistant Vice President at the Head 
Office and M r . Gray as Acting Cashier at the Branch at their 
current rates of $20,000 and $18,000, respectively, for the 
period September 23, 1968, through December 31, 1968. These 
are the rates fixed by your board of directors as reported in 
your letter of September 20, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3594 
BOARD DF GDVERNDRS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
10/2/68 
• • f ^ n ^ - v 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P H N O E N P t 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
M r . Charles J . Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear M r . Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors has approved the appointment of 
James R. Morrison as Vice President in charge of the Bank Examina 
tion Department, and the payment of salaries to officers of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago listed below for the period 
December 1 through December 31, 1968. 
Name 
Ward J. Larson 
William H . Gram 
James R. Morrison 
Elbert 0 . Fults 
Harris C. Buell 
Title 
Vice President, General 
Counsel and Secretary 
Asst. Counsel and 
Assistant Secretary 
Vice President 
Vice President 
Chief Examiner 
Annual 
Salary 
$25,000 
14,000 
25,000 
22,000 
19,000 
The above rates were fixed by your Board of Directors, 
as reported in your letter of September 19,1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
4 

Item No. 8 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
10/2/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
the Hatter of the Application of 
' 
KINGSTON TRUST COMPANY
 
1 • 
for approval of merger uith
 
1 
The Kerhonkson National Bank
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Kingston Trust 
Company, Kingston, New York, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve 
Sys tem, for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and 
The Kerhonlcson National Bank, Kerhonkson, New York, under the charter and 
title of Kingston Trust Company. As an incident to the merger, the three 
offices of The Kerhonkson National Bank would become branches of the 
resulting bank. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the 
Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 

3 5 3 6 
- 2 -
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 3rd day of October, 1960. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Ilartin, and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, llaisel, 
and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Brimmer. 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

3 5 9 7 
Item No. 10 
10/2/68 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY KINGSTON TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE KERHONKSON NATIONAL BANK 
STATEMENT 
Kingston Trust Company, Kingston, New York ("Kingston Bank"), 
with total deposits of $37 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of the 
merger of that bank with The Kerhonkson National Bank, Kerhonkson, 
New York ("Kerhonkson Bank"), which has total deposits of $7 million.^ 
The banks would merge under the charter and name of Kingston Bank, 
which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the 
merger, the three offices of Kerhonkson Bank would become branches of 
Kingston Bank, increasing the number of its offices to nine* 
Competition* - Kingston Bank operates its head office and 
two of its five branches in Kingston (population 20,300); the bank also 
operates branches at Ulster, Phoenicia, and Marlboro, which are, 
respectively, one mile north, 25 miles northwest, and 25 miles south 
of Kingston, Kerhonkson Bank is headquartered in Kerhonkson 
(population 1,200), about 18 miles southwest of Kingston; the bank 
1/ Deposit figures are as of December 30, 1967. 

3 5 9 8 
- 2 -
operates two branches, one at Stone Ridge and one at Hurley, 10 and 
two miles, respectively, southwest of Kingston. 
All offices of the tuo banks are in Ulster County, which is 
on the west side of the Hudson River, about midway between Albany and 
Hew York City. The county
fs 1966 population of 137,000 represents an 
increase of 15 per cent since 1960, and a 47 per cent increase since 
1550, VJithin the last decade many industrial firms have established 
facilities in Ulster County; about 240 such firms, most of which are 
located in the Kingston area, employ more than 15,000 persons. 
Ten banks operate 29 offices in Ulster County, excluding one 
office in Uallkill, which is near the county's southern border and 
20 miles or more from an office of either Kingston Bank or Kerhonkson 
Bank. Kingston Bank holds 22 per cent of the deposits held by the 29 
offices in this area. The second and third largest banks in terms of 
area deposits hold 21 per cent and 19 per cent, respectively; the total 
deposits of the second ranking bank exceed those of Kingston Bank by 
5 0 per cent and the bank is a subsidiary of Bankers Trust New York 
Corporation, a registered bank holding company and the sixth largest 
banking organization in the State. In terms of total deposits, 
Kerhonkson Bank is the smallest of the 10 banks operating in Ulster 
County; i n terms of area deposits, it ranks ninth, with 4 per cent. 
Kerhonkson serves as a trade center for a farming and resort 
area that contains about 6,000 persons. Residents of Kerhonkson and 
its environs who commute to work go either to Ellenville, seven miles 

3 5 3 1 3 
-3-
to the southwest, or to Kingston. Stone Ridge and Hurley are 
residential communities, the residents of which are largely dependent 
upon Kingston for employment and shopping facilities. 
The nearest competitors to Kerhonkson Bank's main office are 
the two banks in Ellenville, which have deposits of $9 million and 
$15 million, respectively; the nearest competitor to its Stone Ridge 
office is the branch at Rosendale (six- miles to the east) of a Goshen-
headquartered bank that has deposits of $18 million; the nearest competi-
tors to its Hurley branch are the offices of three banks in Kingston, 
including, of course, Kingston Bank. 
It appears that Kerhonkson Bank has not been a very effective 
competitor. Thus, during the period 1960-66, population growth in the 
area from which it derives the bulk of its business represented 13 per 
cent of the population growth in the whole of Ulster County; yet the 
bank's share of the increase in bank deposits in the county was only 
7 per cent. 
More particularly, the volume of deposits and loans 
generated by Kerhonkson Bank's Hurley branch (established in 1964), 
its nearest office to Kingston, is far below what could reasonably be 
expected for the sole banking office in a community with a 1966 popula-
tion of 6,100, representing a 35 per cent increase since 1960. Further, 
during recent months Kerhonkson Bank has experienced a decline in 
deposits. 
The merger of Kerhonkson Bank and Kingston Bank would eliminate 
such competition as exists between them, as well as the potential for 
the development of additional competition, and enhance slightly the 

. 3€1>(? 
-4-
position of Kingston Bank. Kerhonkson Bank, however, has not been a 
vigorous competitor, and the merger would remove home-office-protection 
from Kerhonkson, thus opening the community to de novo branching by 
other banks. 
The effect of the proposed merger on competition would be 
adverse, but not substantially adverse. 
Convenience and needs of the Communities. - The replacement 
of Kerhonkson Bank by offices of Kingston Bank would make a broader 
range of banking services more conveniently available in the communities 
Presently served by Kerhonkson Bank, although this would not be particu-
larly significant in Hurley which is only two miles from Kingston. The 
merger would, of course, eliminate Kerhonkson Bank as an alternative 
source of banking services. However, it is in the interests of the 
communities served by Kerhonkson Bank that the bank's problems be 
resolved fairly promptly; the proposed merger would achieve that end. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors are satisfactory with respect to Kingston Bank, as 
they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
In early 1967, Kerhonkson Bank's president, who had served 
the bank for 20 years, became ill, and in September of that year he 
died. The directors have made a reasonable effort to deal with the 
management problem, but have not succeeded. The problem is complicated 
by the fact that the bank has only recently sustained an accelerated 
l oss in deposits. During 1967 deposits declined 3 per cent;.during 

o o i i l 
I 
-5-
the period January 1 to June 17, 1968, deposits declined 6 per cent, or 
at an annual rate of about 12 per cent. 
The directors of ICerhonkson Bank initiated discussions 
regarding a possible merger with five banks, including Kingston Bank; 
three other banks expressed an interest in merging with Kerhonlcson 
Bank, in the Board's judgment, the effect on competition of the merger 
°f Kerhonkson Bank uith any one of these seven other banks would not 
differ so significantly from that of its merger with Kingston Bank as to 
*end much weight to approval or disapproval. 
Summary and conclusion. - The merger would provide a ready and 
conclusive solution for the problems of Kerhonkson Bank, which is in the 
interests of the communities the bank serves. While the directors of 
Kerhonkson Bank, given more time, might be able to find an adequate 
solution for these problems that would be somewhat less inimical to the 
preservation of banking competition and, thus, more consonant with the 
interests of the communities than the proposed transaction, the Board 
believes that further delay and uncertainty would be injurious to the 
bank. The Board concludes, therefore, that the application should be 
aPproved, even though it regards the case as a close one. 
October 3, 1968. 

B O A R D QF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 10 
10/2/68 
G E O R G E W. M I T C H E L L 
M E M B E R 
O F THE 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968. 
The Honorable William Proxmire, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your letter of September 20 
regarding the proposed revisions in the discount window. There 
is no possibility of the Board putting these changes into effect 
until well after the beginning of the new Congress. 
As I mentioned in response to inquiries from reporters 
at the time the study was first released, we have been working 
toward publication of a proposed revision of Regulation A 
("Advances and Discounts by Federal Reserve Banks") around the 
end of the year. It is contemplated that not less than 30 days 
will be allowed for interested persons to submit comments fol-
lowing publication of the proposed draft in the Federal Register. 
And of course some time after that will be needed for analysis 
and consideration of the comments received, before any revised 
regulation can become effective. 
I appreciate the interest you and other Members of the 
Joint Economic Committee have shown in this proposal. 
Publication 
of a new draft regulation should help in putting the issues 
involved into sharper focus, and assist the Congress as well as 
the public in evaluating the changes that may be proposed. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) George W. Mitchell 
George W. Mitchell. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
10/2/68 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 2, 1968 
Wilson, Worley, Gamble & Dodson, 
230 Commerce Street, 
Kingsport, Tennessee. 
37662 
Attention Joe W . Worley, Esq. 
Re: Tennessee Financial Corporation, Kingsport, 
Tennessee - application for prior approval 
for formation of bank holding company 
Dear M r . Worley: 
This confirms advice given you today by M r . O'Connell, 
the Board's Deputy General Counsel, as to the Board's denial of 
the request contained in your letter of September 28, 1968, for 
a postponement of the oral presentation on the above application 
scheduled for October 9, 1968. Written advice of the Board's 
action has also been sent to M r . James F. Bell, counsel associated 
with your firm in this matter. 
In its determination of your request, the Board indicated 
it will allow a reasonable period of time subsequent to oral pre-
sentation within which you may submit on behalf of the opposing 
banks such documentation in support of oral presentation as you 
believe necessary or desirable. The Board has further indicated 
that, while the form of presentation on October 9 is a matter for 
decision by you and your clients, the presence of a representative 
group of officers or directors of the banks represented should be 
encouraged. Their presence will afford Board members an opportunity 
to elicit from them any fact or opinion desired. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P.Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
