Minutes for June 22, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary-
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 
Disapproval of proposed discount rate 
increase at Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1560 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 22, 1971. The Board met in the Special 
Library at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropirate staff members also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the application 
of Central Bancompany, Jefferson City, Missouri, to become a bank holding 
company through acquisition of the voting shares, other than directors' 
qualifying shares, of the successor by merger to The Central Trust 
Bank, Jefferson City, and, as an incident to the merger, indirect 
control of the voting shares, other than directors' qualifying shares, 
of Jefferson Bank of Missouri, Jefferson City. The Board authorized 
the issuance of an order (copy attached as Item No. 1) reflecting this 
action. 

1561 
6/22/71 
-2-
The Board approved unanimously an order (copy attached as 
Item No. 2) granting to all bank holding companies required by section 
5(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended, to register with the 
Board by June 29, 1971, an extension of time to accomplish such regis-
tration until August 31, 1971, or 180 days after the company became a 
bank holding company, whichever date might be later. The Board also 
approved a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) advising of this action and instructing them that additional 
extensions of time under delegated authority should be granted only under 
unusual circumstances. 
Discounting of export financing paper. After several suggestions 
had been made and certain changes agreed upon, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter in the form attached as Item No. 4 to Congressman 
Widnall in response to his request for the Board's views on a possible 
proposal to amend a pending bill (H.R. 8181) so as to give the Export-
Import Bank the right to discount export financing paper with the Federal 
Reserve Banks under certain conditions. 
Illegal bank holding company formations. Since the enactment of 
amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act on December 30, 1970, it had 
been unlawful for any company to acquire 25 per cent or more of the shares 
of a bank without prior approval of the Board. Several cases had been 
reported by the Federal Reserve Banks where companies had violated that 

1562 
6/22/71 
-3-
provision, apparently unaware that the law had been changed. 
In a memo-
randum dated June 17, 1971, the Legal Division presented three possible 
alternatives. 
It recommended, from among those alternatives, that the 
Board permit the filing of applications by companies that had unwittingly 
violated the law, allowing retention of the shares acquired if the appli-
cation was approved but requiring divestiture if the application should 
be denied. 
Mr. O'Connell now recommended that if the Board took the recom-
mended action companies be allowed until August 31, 1971, to file appli-
cations, with the Federal Reserve Banks given delegated authority to 
extend the time, if necessary, upon showing of good cause. 
In response to comments by Governor Mitchell in which he expressed 
the view that the mere publication of an order in the Federal Register 
would not be sufficient to deal with the problem, it was stated that a 
press release could be issued by the Board and that a letter could be 
sent to the Federal Reserve Banks instructing them to communicate with 
each bank in their respective districts. 
In addition, Mr. O'Connell 
described certain changes in language that could be made in the proposed 
order. 
The Board then approved unanimously the issuance of the proposed 
order, in form reflecting the changes agreed upon, with the understanding 
that an appropriate press release would be issued and that a letter to 
the Federal Reserve Banks of the type discussed would be sent. 
It was 
understood that the Board would consider further, in connection with its 

1563 
6/22/71 
-4-
consideration of staff recommendations to implement the "control" 
provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act, what steps the Reserve 
Banks might be asked to take to discover additional situations involving 
possible violations of the Act. 
Attached under Item No. 5 are copies of the press release and 
order reflecting the action taken today by the Board, along with a copy 
of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia had acted on June 17, 1971, subject to review and determina-
tion by the Board, to establish a discount rate of 5 per cent (rather 
than 4-3/4 per cent). The reasons were summarized in a letter from 
President Eastburn dated June 17. 
The Board was advised at this meeting that President Eastburn 
had recommended against a change in the rate at this time, in view of 
the imminent Treasury financing operation, but that the directors were 
concerned about the persistence of inflationary pressures and, despite 
the timing problem, concluded that they should discharge their responsi-
bility, as they saw it, by proposing a change in the discount rate. As 
indicated in Mr. Eastburn's letter, the directors recognized that the 
Board might have considerations in mind that would cause it not to want 
to approve the proposed increase, and apparently the directors therefore 

1564 
6/22/71 
-5-
would not be particularly surprised or offended if an adverse action 
were taken. 
The Board considered whether, in the circumstances, the more 
appropriate move would be to hold the matter in abeyance or to take 
negative action, with an explanatory letter to the Philadelphia Bank. 
The latter was concluded to be the preferable move for several reasons. 
It would clear the air and afford an opportunity to explain to the 
directors why the Board did not believe that an increase in the discount 
rate at this particular time was warranted. It would also avoid the 
possible risk of discount rate rumors emerging in an already sensitive 
market in the midst of a Treasury financing operation. 
Accordingly, the Board decided by unanimous vote not to approve 
the proposed discount rate increase, with the understanding that a letter 
setting forth the reasons for the Board's decision would be sent to the 
Philadelphia Bank. 
A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Bank is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston on June 14 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Minneapolis, 
and San Francisco on June 17, 1971, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

1565 
Item No. 1 
6/22/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
CENTRAL BANCOMPANY, 
Jefferson City, Missouri, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) 
of the successor by merger to The 
Central Trust Bank, Jefferson City, 
Missouri, and as an incident to the 
merger and acquisition, indirect 
ox-;nership of 100 per cent of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of Jefferson Bank of Missouri, 
Jefferson City, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Central Bancompany, Jefferson 
city, Missouri ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
Qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The Central Trust 
Sank, Jefferson City, Missouri ("Bank"), and as an incident to the 

1566 
-2-
merger and acquisition, indirect ownership of 100 per cent of the 
voting shares of The Central Trust Bank's subsidiary, Jefferson 
Bank of Missouri, Jefferson City, Missouri ("Jefferson Bank"). 
The merger is a means to facilitate the acquisition of shares of 
Bank and has no other significance; the proposal is therefore 
treated herein, insofar as Bank is concerned, as one to acquire 
shares of Bank directly, (Bank, a trust company, although the 
owner of Jefferson Bank, has heretofore not been considered a 
bank holding company by virtue of section 2(a)(5)(F) of the Act.) 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Missouri 
Commissioner of Finance, and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 1, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8273), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served, and finds that: 

Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
purpose of acquiring Bank ($117.6 million deposits) and its subsid-
iary bank, Jefferson Bank ($6.7 million deposits). 
(All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect bank holding company 
applications approved by the Board to May 31, 1971.) Upon consum-
mation of the proposal,, Applicant will assume Bank's present posi-
tion as the State's 10th largest banking organization ($124.2 million 
deposits) with 1.1 per cent of total deposits in the State. As Appli-
cant has no present operations or subsidiaries, consummation of 
the proposal would eliminate neither existing nor potential com-
petition. Neither does it appear that there would be adverse 
effects on any bank in the area. Inasmuch as Bank organized 
Jefferson Bank in 1965 and retains ownership, there is no actual 
and little potential for future competition between the two banks. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects 
of Bank and Jefferson Bank are generally satisfactory, as would 
be those of Applicant upon approval. Consummation of the proposal 
would have no immediate effect on the convenience and needs of the 
community involved. Considerations under these factors are consis-
tent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
°f the proposal would be in the public interest and that the appli-
cation should be approved. 

I 
I j 
I' I
15GS 
- 4 -
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
i 
thirtieth calendar day follov;ing the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 22, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson, Daane, 
and Ilaisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A- Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1569 
Item No. 2 
6/22/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
ORDER PURSUANT TO SECTION 5(a) OF 
THE BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
By virtue of amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act 
enacted on December 31, 1970, companies which controlled one bank on 
that date are required to register with the Board by June 29, 1971. 
Scction 5(a) (12 U.S.C. 1844(a)) of the Act authorizes the Board to 
extend the time for filing in its discretion. 
It appears that such 
extension is in the public interest, in the light of the relatively 
short period permitted for compliance with the requirement. 
It is hereby ordered. That the time set forth in Section 5(a) 
of the Act for registration with the Board be and hereby is extended 
until August 31,"1971, or 180 days after a company becomes a bank 
holding company, whichever is later. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 22, 1971. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1570 
•f^i. lif.'^'. 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
6/22/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L , tl D H P £ 3 P D N D C H C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 22. 1971 
Pursuant to Section A(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
of 1956, as amended, the Board has extended the time within which 
any hank holding company shall register with the Beard under such 
Act until not later than August 31, 1971, or 180 days after a 
Company becomes a bank holding company, whichever is later, Addi-
tional extensions beyond August 31, 1971, should be granted only 
under unusual circumstances. 
A notice regarding the extension of time for registration 
will be published in the Federal Register within the next few days. 
A copy of the Order and press release relating to this action is 
enclosed. 
Very truly yours, 
Reference should have been 
to Section 5(a). 
Enclosures 
(Banks and branches) 
Kenneth A, Kenyort 
Deputy Secretary 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
AND VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE'OF BRANCHES 

1571 
Item No. 4 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
6/22/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
June 25, 1971 
The Honorable William B. Widnall 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Widnall: 
I a m writing in reply to your letter of June 14, regarding discounting 
of export financing paper at the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The Federal Reserve Banks n o w extend credit to m e m b e r banks 
through the discount window to enable the borrowing banks to adjust 
their reserve positions and help meet weekly average reserve 
requirements. The window is not designed to finance any lasting 
expansion in bank lending; the borrowing privilege is provided only 
so long as a bank uses it to meet temporary liquidity or seasonal 
lending needs. 
The a m e n d m e n t you enclosed with your letter proposes to m a k e the 
Federal Reserve's discount window available to the Export-Import 
Bank if necessary to enable the Bank to provide financing for exports 
"on terms and conditions which are competitive with the Government-
supported rates and terms and other conditions available for the 
financing of exports from the principal countries whose exporters 
compete with United States exporters. " Proponents of using the 
discount window for this purpose have cited low-rate financing 
available in other countries, such as 4 percent in Japan, and have 
urged that financing be provided at subsidized rates for U. S. 
exports to meet this competition. It has been suggested that the 
Federal Reserve could provide preferential credit for the "modest 
amount" of export paper involved ($7 billion) without causing an 
inflationary expansion of the domestic m o n e y supply (see page 7 
of the Task Force Report, "Competitive Export Financing for 
the Seventies", C h a m b e r of C o m m e r c e of the United States, 
reproduced in Senate hearings on S. 581). 

157Z 
O 
f^a) 
The Honorable William B. Widnall 
- 2 -
Extensions of Federal Reserve credit--whether by advances through 
the discount window, or by purchases of Government securities in 
the open market for the System's a c c o u n t — a d d to the reserves of 
m e m b e r banks, laying the base for an expansion of m o n e y and 
credit of several times the amount of the added reserves. In the 
past ten years, total reserves of m e m b e r banks have grown by 
about $1 billion a year, on average. 
If w e are to avoid an inflationary surge of bank reserves, increases 
must be kept in that general order of magnitude, allowing for s o m e 
acceleration as the economy grows, and for shorter-term variations 
of reserve growth in response to economic conditions. This m e a n s 
that the Federal Reserve cannot be relied on to meet all of the needs 
for credit that Congress might consider meritorious, including the 
need to finance exports. Even if ways could be found to subsidize 
exports through the System's discount window without increasing 
bank reserves excessively, it seems clear that others having 
equally compelling credit needs would be encouraged to seek equal 
treatment. For example, proposals have already been put forward 
in Congress to use Federal Reserve credit to finance housing, small 
business, farmers, State and local governments, and development 
of areas of the country suffering from high unemployment or low 
income. 
If the Federal Reserve System were to attempt to meet all these 
needs, there would be great danger that the resulting increase in 
the supply of m o n e y and credit would be so large as to induce m o r e 
inflation. The Board of Governors has, therefore, consistently 
opposed such proposals. It would strongly r e c o m m e n d against 
enactment of the a m e n d m e n t you enclosed with your letter, or any 
similar proposal to subsidize particular sectors of the economy 
through extensions of Federal Reserve credit. 
Sincerely yours 
Arthur F. Burns 

Item No. 5 
6/22/71 
For immediate release 
June 22, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today that it will permit companies that have acquired an 
interest in a bank during the period from December 31, 1970, to the 
date of the attached Board Order--without obtaining requisite Board 
approval and apparently without knowledge that such approval was re-
quired by the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments of 1970--to apply 
to the Board for a determination that such acquisition is in the public 
interest. 
Amendments-t o the Bank Ho Id inf. Company Act which became 
effect ive December 31, 1970 made it unlawful for a company to acquire 
25 per cent or more of the shares of a bank except with the prior 
approval of the Federal Reserve Board. Before the 1970 Amendments 
were enacted there was no such constraint upon the acquisition by a 
company of the shares of a bank, and it was common for companies to 
acquire single, small banks. 
The Board has been advised that in several instances com-
panies have acquired a controlling interest in a brnlc apparently 
without knowledge of the changes in the law requiring prior Board 
approval. The Board ordered that in cases of unintended violation of 
the law by companies that acquired a controlling interest in a bank 
between December 31, 1970 and the date of the Board's Order: 
1. The companies must apply to the Board for a determination 
that such acquisition was in the public interest. 

-2-
1574 
2. Applications should be filed in the form ordinarily 
required for requesting prior approval, and will be determined by 
the Board in the light of its usual standards for bank acquisitions. 
These include a finding of net public benefit in the transaction, 
sound financial structure, and other considerations. 
3. Where the law requires that bank holding companies take 
any action within a specified time, the time specified will run from 
the date on which the company became a bank holding company by acquir-
'' controlling interest in a bank, and not from the date of the 
board's later action approving the transaction. 
4. Applications must be filed with appropriate Federal 
Reserve Banks by August 31, 1971, unless time for filing is extended 
f°r good cause. 
5. If the Board denies an application, the company must take 
action forthwith- to divest its unlawful holding. 
A copy of the Board's Order is attached. 
-0-
Attachment 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BOARD OF COVERrlORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D 0 C # 
ORDER PURSUANT TO SECTION 5(b) 
OF THE BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
By virtue of amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act 
("the Act") enacted on December 31, 1970, the acquisition by any 
c°ttpany of control over a bank is unlawful, except when done pursuant 
to prior approval of the Board. 
There have come to the Board's attention several instances 
Which a company, apparently without knowledge of the changes in the. 
has consummated an acquisition of an interest in a bank in vio-
of the provisions of the Act, Despite the fact that: 5^uch 
vl-0lations of the law were apparently not willful, it would not be 
consistent with the provisions of the Act to permit continuation of 
c°ntrol of 
a bank by such a company without a determination by the 
koard that the standards set forth in section 3 of the Act are met. 
A requirement that such an interest be divested may in some 
8ituations 
cause irreparable injury to the company, the bank, and the 
C0[r.munities involved. The Board finds that the imposition of such a 
ecluirement would not be in the public interest, unless necessary 
effectuate the purposes of the Act. 

1576. 
- 2 -
For the foregoing reasons, and in order to enable the Board 
to administer and carry out the purposes of the Act without undue 
hardship to persons affected thereby, It is hereby ordered, pursuant 
to section 5(b) of the Act, that: 
1, Any company which, between'December 31, 1970 and the 
date of this Order, acquired an interest in a bank requiring prior 
aPproval of the Board by virtue of the Bank Holding Company Act 
Amendments of 1970, without knowledge of that requirement and without 
having obtained such approval, may apply to the Board for a determination 
that such acquisition is in the public interest. 
2, Any such application should be filed in the form 
aPpropria te._for requesting prior approval of the transaction involved 
under section 3 of the Act, and will be determined by the Board in 
the light of the criteria established by the Act with respect to an 
application for such prior approval, 
3, With regard to any provision of the Act which requires 
a hank holding company to take any action within a specified period 
time after the date on which it becomes a bank holding company, 
sUch period shall commence on the date of the transaction by which 
became a bank holding company, and not on the date of the Board's 
•^ater approval of such transaction. 
4, Any application involving the circumstances set forth 
herein shall be filed with the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank by 
August 31, 1971, un/lecs such time sh'all be extended for good cause. 

157? 
- 3 -
5, In the event that such an application is denied by 
the Board, the company involved shall take all appropriate action 
to forthwith divest the interest unlawfully held. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 22, 1971. 
(Signed)Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. ICenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL3 

1578 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R L B S 
o r F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
H O A R D 
July 2, 1971 
We would appreciate your writing to each commercial bank 
in your district as follows: 
"The Board of Governors has expressed concern with the 
number of companies that have acquired banks in apparent 
ignorance of the requirements of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, ac amended (12 U.S.C0 1341 et seq). 
"Essentially, the Act requires that a company obtain 
the prior approval of the Board for any transaction where-
by the company (including corporations, partnerships, or 
business associations) \ 7 i l l become a bank holding company 
by obtaining control of one bank, or, in the. case or a 
company which already controls one bank, before it acquires 
ownership or control of more than 5 per cent of the voting 
shares of an additional bank. Holding companies are re-
quired to register with the Board by August 31, 1971 or 
180 days after becoming a holding company, whichever is 
later0 
The Act imposes certain limitations on the acqui-
sition by bank holding companies of nonbanking assets. 
"The Act provides that a company has control over 
a ban!: or company if (1) the company directly or in-
directly or acting through one or more persons owns, 
controls, or has power to vote 25 per cent or more of 
any class of voting securities of a bank, or (2) the 
company controls in any manner the election of a 
majority of the directors or trustees of the bank or 
company,, or (3) if the Board determines, after notice 
and opportunity for hearing, that the company directly 
or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over 
the management or policies of the bank. Enclosed for 
your information is a copy of a press release and 
proposed amendment to the Board's Regulation Y (relating 
to bank holding companies) which deals with the question 
of control«, 
< 

"There are also enclosed a copy of the Board's Order 
and press release of June 22, 1971, in which is stated 
the Board's policy with regard to violations of the Act 
occurring before that date in apparent ignorance of the 
lav;. 
"We would appreciate your furnishing a copy of 
this letter to any company that controls your bank, or, 
at such time as you become aware of the fact, to any 
company that intends to acquire control. We would be 
happy to discuss further the requirements of the Act 
or any related problems," 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
/ 
Deputy Secretary 
• 
Enclosures 
(Banks and branches) 
O ! 
THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS AND 
VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

Rts^;'-" 
BOARD D F G O V E R N O R S 
• P" T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
6/22/71 
a d d r e s s orFiciAt. c n R D E s r u N D 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 24, 1971 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
i 
Mr. David P. Eastburn, President 
? Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Dear Dave: 
The purpose of this letter is to outline the considerations 
that were involved in the Board's decision on June 22 not to approve 
the action taken on June 17 by the directors of your Bank to increase 
the discount rate from 4-3/4 per cent to 5 per cent. 
_ In reaching its decision, the Board reviewed carefully the 
considerations that were weighed by your directors, as summarized in 
your letter of June 17. The members of the Board share the concern 
of your directors over persisting inflationary pressures. The Board 
does not believe, however, that a higher discount rate would prove a 
constructive step in dealing with such pressures at this juncture, 
given the current sensitive state of the securities markets and the 
substantial level of unemployed resources prevailing throughout the 
country. While short-term market interest rates have risen recently, 
that rise is not regarded as so large or so assuredly long-lived as 
to call for a corresponding discount rate advance. An additional 
consideration at this particular time is the desirability of avoiding 
an overt monetary policy change during the interval when the current 
Treasury financing operation is in process. 
May I say that the Board, while reaching a judgment that on 
balance differs from that of your directors on this issue, appreciates 
having had the benefit„of - their views and wishes to thank them for the 
sincere expression of their considered judgment in fulfilling their 
statutory responsibility. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secreatry 
