Minutes for 
September 9 
. . . . . . . 
•••:!...::. 
• 
V , 
: 
. 
' ' 
. . 
' 
: 
'-o c :. 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
m 
a 
It: 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 9, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. Coyne and Nichols, Special Assistants to 
the Board 
Mr. Bernard, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Axilrod, Williams, Sigel, Keir, Weiner, 
Baker, Ettin, Freedman, Gehman, Stone, and 
Zeisel, and Mrs. Smelker of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Ghiardi, Hersey, Irvine, Wood, 
Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Maroni, Mills, Pizer, 
and Roxon, and Mrs. Helprin of the Division 
of International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff presented a 
review of international financial developments and domestic business 
a n
d financial conditions of the kind customarily offered in advance 
°f meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee, the reports being 

3452 
9/9/68 
-2-
based to some extent on materials that had been distributed in prepa-
ration for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee. Copies of the relevant 
documentation have been placed in the Committee's files. 
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Mr. Brill withdrew from the meeting, as did 
Messrs. Broida and Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Heyde of the Legal Division 
Mr. Eisenbeis of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton and Kline of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Application of Tennessee Financial Corporation (Item No. 1). 
• t i 
A memorandum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
August 23, 1968, and other pertinent papers had been distributed in 
• 
connection with an application by Tennessee Financial Corporation, 
Kings 
port, Tennessee, to become a bank holding company through acqui-
Sl
-tion of 50.1 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of 
Garter County Bank of Elizabethton, Elizabethton, Tennessee. 
(Appli-
cant presently owned 31.9 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
°f First Peoples Bank, Johnson City, Tennessee.) 

» •» « JT> * y 
9/9/68 
-3-
The recommendations of the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation, the Banking Markets Section, and the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta were favorable. However, the Tennessee Superintendent of 
Banks recommended denial. This recommendation, accompanied by a 
letter of opposition to the proposal from the Tennessee Bankers Asso-
ciation, was received after the expiration of the 30-day period set 
by 
statute during which receipt of an adverse recommendation would 
have made a hearing mandatory. Because of illness, the Superintendent 
°f Banks had requested an extension of time within which to file his 
recommendation. He had been advised that, while consideration would 
be given to his views when received, there was no statutory provision 
an extension of the time within which receipt of an adverse recom-
m
endation would make a hearing mandatory. 
In a memorandum dated August 29, 1968, the Legal Division 
analyzed the objections of the State Superintendent and the Tennessee 
Bankers Association. It concluded that they were not of such a nature 
a s
 to make practical efforts to elicit evidence that would be helpful 
t o
 the Board in reaching its decision. Accordingly, the Legal Divi-
sion recommended that the Board proceed with its consideration of the 
a
Pplication on the basis of the memoranda and analyses now before it. 
Governor Daane stated that he would accept the Legal Divi-
sion's evaluation of the substantive points. He raised the question, 
however, whether it would not be to the detriment of the System from 

9/9/68 
-4-
the standpoint of public relations to deny a hearing because of a 
legal technicality. 
Governor Maisel agreed with Governor Daane. In terms of 
public image, he believed it would be beneficial to evidence a more 
receptive attitude toward hearings, particularly in instances where 
the views of State supervisors were concerned, to the extent that 
resources could reasonably be made available. 
Mr. Solomon observed that hearings, though consumers of 
resources, might well be worth the effort if they resulted in improved 
relations with the State authorities. One point to bear in mind, how-
ever, was that they tended to prolong the length of time before Board 
action could be taken, and the State supervisors were pushing for more 
expeditious handling of applications. In this case the Tennessee State 
Superintendent had not specifically requested a hearing, but it might 
be possible, if the Board so desired, for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta to determine his wishes informally. 
Governor Sherrill pointed out that there was also the State 
bankers association to be considered. He agreed with the Legal Divi-
sion that there was little likelihood of producing substantive infor-
mation not already available to the Board. However, the proposed 
holding company would be the first to be formed in Tennessee since 
the passage of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, and in that sense 
l! 
0 
the application had a precedent-setting aspect. Accordingly, he would 

34 u 
9/9/68 
- 5 -
be inclined to arrange a hearing even if there was only a mild interest 
in that direction on the part of the State Superintendent and the 
bankers association. 
Governor Brimmer stated that his preference would be to dis-
pose of the case on its merits; he found Mr. O'Connell's arguments 
persuasive. He felt that the Board should respond to requests for 
hearings even after the expiration of the 30-day period cited in the 
law, if it appeared that the reaching of a decision would be facilitated 
thereby. However, he doubted whether that would be true in this 
instance. If a hearing should be held, he would favor holding it at 
an early date before such Board members as were available. 
Chairman Martin then noted that the consensus appeared to favor 
arranging an oral presentation in this case. After further discussion, 
it was agreed that arrangements should be made for such a presentation 
before 
as many members of the Board as were available. A copy of the 
order subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 1. 
Testimony on discount study. There had been distributed a 
draft of testimony to be presented by Governor Mitchell before the 
Joint Economic Committee on September 11, 1968, regarding the Report 
of the Steering Committee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the 
Discount Mechanism. 
Following a discussion during which it was indicated that 
some suggestions would be made by Board members to Governor Mitchell, 

3406 
9/9/68 
-6-
it was understood that those suggestions would be taken into account 
and that the statement would be presented in a final form satisfactory 
to Governor Mitchell. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Officer salaries at Cleveland (Item No. 2). Pursuant to the 
understanding at the meeting on August 28, 1968, Governor Mitchell 
had discussed with President Hickman of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland the question of holding in abeyance, pending completion 
of the Board's review of salary ranges for Presidents and First Vice 
Presidents, the recommendation of the Reserve Bank that the annual 
salary of First Vice President Walter H. MacDonald be increased by 
$4,000 to $33,000 and that the salary of Vice President and General 
Economist Maurice Mann be increased by $4,000 to $32,500, both effec-
tive September 1, 1968. 
In a memorandum dated September 5, 1968, the Division of 
Personnel Administration indicated that President Hickman had agreed, 
in discussion with Governor Mitchell, that it would be reasonable to 
hold in abeyance until January 1, 1969, any salary increase for First 
Vice President MacDonald; however, Mr. Hickman hoped that the increase 
for Vice President Mann could be approved retroactive to September 1, 
as Mr. Mann had received an attractive offer outside the Federal 
Res erve System. The memorandum noted that the proposed increase would 

KJ'kU't 
9/9/68 
-7-
result in a situation where the salary of a Vice President would exceed 
that of the First Vice President, but in view of the probable revision 
of the salary range for First Vice Presidents it would presumably be 
for a short time only. 
After comments by Governor Mitchell on his conversation with 
President Hickman, Governor Brimmer said he had gained from Mr. Mann 
the impression that no hard-and-fast agreement on the effective date 
of a salary increase had been reached, simply an understanding that 
an increase would be forthcoming as soon as possible. Governor Daane 
then suggested that the increase be approved effective September 1, 
as an exception to the general rule, in view of the unanticipated 
circumstances. 
There was agreement with this rationale. Accordingly, unani-
mous approval was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Director appointment. Chairman Martin referred to previous 
discussion by the Board, at a meeting at which he had not been present, 
concerning the appointment of a Class C director at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland to succeed Mr. Logan Johnston, whose term was to 
expire at the end of this year. The Chairman said that for several 
years he had been endeavoring to interest Mr. Horace A. Shepard, 
President, TRW, Inc., Cleveland, Ohio, in becoming a director when a 
vacancy occurred. He believed Mr. Shepard would now be receptive and 

9/9/68 
- 8 -
in fact would make certain personal adjustments to assure his eligi-
^ . r; 
,'» 
bility. In the circumstances, it was Chairman Martin's recommendation 
that the Board proceed to ascertain Mr. Shepard's availability. 
There was agreement with this recommendation. 
Accordingly, 
it was understood that the Chairman of the Cleveland Bank would be 
asked to ascertain whether Mr. Shepard would accept appointment if 
tendered as a Class C director for the three-year term beginning 
January 1, 1969, with the understanding that if it were found that 
he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
With regard to the broader question, referred to by Governor 
Maisel during the discussion, of establishing guidelines looking 
toward the representation of a wider diversity of 
interests among 
Class C directors on Reserve Bank boards, Chairman Martin expressed 
agreement that it would be desirable to continue to work on procedures 
designed to accomplish that result. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascer-
tained that an acceptance would be forth-
coming, an appointment telegram was sent 
to Mr. Shepard on September 25, 1968, with 
the understanding that public announcement 
of the appointment would be made near the 
end of the year in accordance with the 
usual practice. 
Secretary 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TENNESSEE FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order for Oral Presentation 
In the matter of the application of Tennessee Financial 
Corporation, Kingsport, Tennessee, pursuant to section 3 of the Bank 
: 
Holding Company Act of 1956. 
On July 18, 1968, there was published in the Federal Register 
(33 F.R. 10294) a notice of receipt by the Board of Governors of an 
application filed pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)) by Tennessee Financial Corporation, 
Kingsport, Tennessee, for prior approval by the Board of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 50.1 per cent or more of the voting shares of Carter County Bank of 
Elizabethton, Elizabethton, Tennessee. Applicant now owns 31.9 per cent 
of the outstanding voting shares of First Peoples Bank, Johnson City, 
Tennessee. 
The aforestated published notice advised that the application 
was available for study at the office of the Board of Governors and the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, and designated a period within which 
comments and views on the proposed acquisition could be filed with the 
Board. Opposition to the proposal has been filed by the Superintendent 
of Banks of the State of Tennessee. 
It appears to the Board that it is appropriate in the public 
interest that there be conducted before the Board a public oral 
o 4 o S 
Item No. 1 
9/9/68 

presentation at which views and comments with respect to this application 
might be presented. 
Accordingly, 
It is hereby ordered, That, pursuant to section 262.3(f)(3) 
of the Board's Rules of Procedure (12 CFR 262.2(f)(3)) a public oral 
presentation be held with respect to this application commencing at 
2:30 p.m. on October 9, 1968, in Room 1202 of the Federal Reserve 
Building, 20th and Constitution Avenue, Washington, D. C. 
It is further ordered, That any person desiring to present 
comments and views at the scheduled oral presentation should file with 
the Secretary, Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
D. C. 20551, no later than September 27, 1968, written notice of intent 
to appear before the Board at said oral presentation, such written notice 
- ...j • L-'yf \ . 
.i.. . 
: • I,, .a. v- 
J . 
'L; "... 
to contain a brief summary of the statement which will be presented at 
the oral presentation, and the name of the person who proposes to appear. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of September, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF 
GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3411 
Item No. 2 
9/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 10, 1968 
Mr. Albert G . Clay, Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Clay: 
In response to your request of August 14, the Board of 
Governors has approved an increase of $4,000 in the salary of 
Vice President and General Economist Maurice Mann of your Bank 
to an annual rate of $32,500, effective September 1, 1968. 
The Board believes that it would be preferable to hold 
any increase for Mr. MacDonald until January 1, 1969, by which 
time a review of the present salary structures for Presidents and 
First Vice Presidents of Federal Reserve Banks, now in progress, 
will certainly be completed. Governor Mitchell has discussed this 
with President Hickman, who agrees that any increase in 
Mr. MacDonald's salary could be held in abeyance until January 1, 
1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C . Holland, 
Secretary. 
