PR 609 
Minutes for 
January 9, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

87 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, January 9, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Heyde of the Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Waller of the Office of the Controller 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the item numbers 
indicated. 

88 
1/9/69 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to Boston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
1 
Boston, Massachusetts, granting consent to pur-
chase shares of a finance company to be formed 
in Honduras. 
Letters to Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
2-4 
Corporation, New York, New York, (1) granting 
consent to purchase shares of Essor-Gestion, a 
company to be formed under the laws of France; 
(2) amending the Board's letter of July 1, 1968, 
to permit the continued holding of shares of 
Chase and Bank of Ireland (International) Limited, 
Dublin, Ireland, after the latter acquires preferred 
stock in an Irish company; and (3) granting consent 
to continue to hold shares of Chase and Bank of 
Ireland (International) Limited after the latter 
acquires the stock of C.B.I. (Nominees) Limited, to 
be organized under the laws of Ireland. 
Letter to Allied Bank International, New York, New 
5 
York, approving amendment of its articles of asso-
ciation to increase its capital and surplus, and 
to include First National Bank in St. Louis, St. 
Louis, Missouri, as a shareholder. 
Letters to The Fidelity International Corporation, 
6-7 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, granting consent to 
Purchase (1) additional shares of Titan Cement 
Company S.A., Athens, Greece, and (2) shares of 
Henry Ansbacher & Co. Limited, London, England. 
Letter to The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, 
8 
Illinois, granting permission to establish a 
branch in London, England. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
9 
aPProving the payment of salaries to Robert W. 
Worcester as Vice President and Arthur I. Lee as 
Assistant Vice President at the rates fixed by 
the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Application of Sedan State Bank (Items 10-11). There had been 
distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 

89 
1/9/69 
-3-
approval on December 31, 1968, of the application of The Sedan State 
Bank, Sedan, Kansas, to merge with The Peru State Bank, Peru, Kansas. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 10 and 11. 
Application of American Bank and Trust Company (Items 12-13). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on December 31, 1968, of the application of Amer-
ican Bank and Trust Company, Lansing, Michigan, to consolidate with 
Woodruff State Bank, De Witt, Michigan. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, in the form in which they were issued, are 
attached as Items 12 and 13. 
Foreign credit restraint program. Two memoranda from Governor 
Brimmer had been distributed, both dated January 8, 1969, relating to 
the voluntary foreign credit restraint program. One memorandum was 
accompanied by a draft of statement that Governor Brimmer expected to 
Present on January 15 before the Joint Economic Committee's Subcommittee 
International Exchange and Payments. He would also supply a progress 
report, a draft of which would be furnished to the Board members as soon 
as it was reproduced. 
The Subcommittee had scheduled hearings at which several Govern-
ment officials would comment on elements of the President's balance of 

1/9/69 
_4-
payments program. In his statement regarding the Federal Reserve 
Program Governor Brimmer planned to deal with questions already posed 
by the Subcommittee on the effect of the program on the U.S. balance 
°f payments, but to avoid making any proposals for revisions in or 
abandonment of the program. In accordance with the decision announced 
by the Board on December 23, 1968, to review its program early in 1969, 
Particularly to determine whether greater flexibility might be provided 
m the guidelines for financing U.S. exports, he expected to inform the 
Subcommittee of meetings he proposed to arrange with reporting finan-
cial institutions to aid the Board in considering possible changes. 
Governor Brimmer's second memorandum dealt with the regional 
meetings. Attached was a form of letter that was being sent to Federal 
Reserve Bank Presidents requesting that invitations be issued to report-
lr*g banks and selected other reporting institutions and suggesting 
organizational details. Also attached was a questionnaire indicating 
the degree of specificity envisaged for the discussions. 
At today's meeting Governor Brimmer described the anticipated 
scope of the hearings before the Subcommittee and commented on how he 
Planned to handle the questions that had been directed to him. Among 
other things, Chairman Reuss of the Subcommittee had indicated that he 
would like estimates of the extent to which total U.S. foreign invest-
ments would have been larger without the restraint program, and comment 
inter-relationships between the restraints on bank lending and U.S. 
export performance. 

s i 
1/9/69 
_4-
In light of the points he was expected to discuss before the 
Subcommittee, Governor Brimmer believed it might be desirable to set 
the regional meetings in motion. However, he would like the Board's 
thinking with respect to proceeding before the incoming Administration 
had had an opportunity to make known its position. His own opinion 
was that after five years it was time for a review, and that the 
regional meetings would be a good start. He had had conversations 
with Reserve Bank Presidents, all of whom endorsed the meetings. 
Governor Maisel said that Governor Brimmer had already met 
one point of concern by indicating that he intended to temper a passage 
of the draft statement that implied that the program had been ineffec-
tive. Governor Maisel's second question had to do with the timing of 
the testimony. There had been discussion several months ago of a 
complete review of the program, and the testimony would come in advance 
°f that review. 
Governor Brimmer observed that Governor Maisel was apparently 
referring to questions he had raised in the fall of 1968 regarding the 
overall strategy of the balance of payments program, including the 
Federal Reserve segment. Mr. Sammons indicated that staff work was in 
Process. 
Governor Sherrill said that he felt it was not necessary to 
give as bleak an impression of the program as the draft statement did 
i n its present form. While he would not claim that it had been an 

1/9/69 
_4-
outstanding success, neither did he feel that it had been as lacking 
in value as the draft statement implied. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the assessment of the program 
a s now drafted was, in his opinion, probably more accurate than the 
wording that would be substituted. He had on various occasions 
expressed his doubts, but the program was deeply entrenched. He urged 
that the language in the draft statement not be diluted too much. 
He also had reservations about a review of the program before 
the new Administration took office, Governor Mitchell continued. 
While he would not have any particular objection to gathering informa-
tion, he doubted the wisdom of a public announcement at this juncture. 
However, he would yield to Chairman Martin's judgment on that point. 
There ensued an exchange of comments regarding the degree of 
commitment in the December 23 press release regarding the intention to 
review the program. 
Governor Maisel then suggested that it would seem appropriate 
to say that experience with the program was being evaluated as a basis 
recommending changes. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the statement would be edited in light of the views that had been 
expressed and presented in a final form satisfactory to Governor 
Brimmer. 
it was understood that the arrangements for the regional 
meetings proposed by Governor Brimmer would proceed. 

1/9/69 
_4-
Assessment for Board expenses. There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Office of the Controller dated January 7, 1969, 
recommending that an assessment of .00666 per cent of the total paid-
in capital and surplus of the Federal Reserve Banks as of December 31, 
1968, be levied upon the Banks to meet the estimated expenses of the 
Board for the first half of 1969. Such an assessment would produce 
$8,388,500. 
The levying of the assessment was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

9 4 
BOARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
1/9/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 19 69. 
Boston Overseas Financial 
Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
October 28, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Cor-
poration ("BOFC") to purchase and hold 50 per cent of the shares of a 
finance company to be formed in Honduras ("FC") at a cost of approximately 
$100,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date 
°f this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of FC by BOFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in FC if FC at any time fails to restrict 
its activities to those permissible to a corporation in 
which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if FC establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Honduras or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, BOFC will 
furnish the Board with such reports regarding the activities 
of FC as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FC be reported 
under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the same manner as 
if FC were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board suspends, 
until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions on 
loans granted by FC in Honduras in the currency of that country. 
• • 
• 
. 
• 
1 
-V-' 
• 
" 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested that 
the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of Association, 
and By-Laws of FC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, The 
First National Bank of Boston and Bank of Boston International and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
95 
2 

96 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
/ S G J J S F E * 
O F T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/^/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
•jf \,... 
January 9, 19 69. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In 
accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
ecember 12, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation ("CMOBC") to purchase and hold 50 per cent of the shares 
of Essor-Gestion ("E-G"), to be formed under the laws of France, at 
a cost of approximately $10,000, provided the shares are acquired 
Wl-thin one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of E-G by CMOBC is granted subject to the following conditions 
(1) That CMOBC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in E-G if E-G at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if E-G establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in France or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to CMOBC; 
(2) 
That, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of E-G as it may require from time to time; 
and 
(3) 
That any share acquisitions or dispositions by E-G be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if E-G were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

97 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
-2-
Banking Corporation 
' / 
1' 
'*'.'• 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of E-G. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that the 
investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, The 
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), and Chase International Invest-
ment Corporation, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
i 
S" • • ••; c • •. > ; • k r ! ; ' :. I 
i ; 
; ' re: 
' .• M 
. 
. 
" • ..a 
, -1 i > • • . 
t i 
•. 
1' -HI 
• : ;* • i • • 
. ? ' ; I i . a :> o ' I . y,\ . • i ? I 
' 
i"0 Ui ' ( • " ••• "i! '< 
' • 
i • ; <x. 

13 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
1/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9 , 19 69. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
* > ' 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of November 8, 1968, the Board of Governors amends 
the relevant portion of the third paragraph of the Board's 
letter of July 1, 1968, to read as follows: 
. .relates to restrictions (a) on loans granted 
by NCBL in Ireland in the currency of that country 
and (b) requiring specific consent for acquisitions 
of preferred stock in Irish companies the earnings 
of which are free of tax to stockholders under Irish 
law, so long as such acquisitions amount essentially 
to extensions of credit; such acquisitions neednot be 
reported quarterly, but are to be listed as stocks in 
call reports of condition." 
In all other respects the letter remains unchanged. 
The Board does not believe it appropriate to lift 
the limitations based on capital and surplus (of your Cor-
poration) . 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

99 
BDARD D F G D V E R N D R 5 
Item No. 4 
1/9/69 
COw.' 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 19 69. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of November 4, 1968, the Board of Governors grants its consent for 
your Corporation ("CMOBC") to continue to hold the stock of Chase 
and Bank of Ireland (International) Limited ("CBI"), Dublin, Ireland, 
after CBI acquires all of the stock of C.B.I. (Nominees) Limited, 
to be chartered under the laws of Ireland at a cost of approximately 
$242, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition that C.B.I. 
(Nominees) Limited restricts its activities to solely being the nominee 
of CBI and CBI's customers. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

100 
B O A R D D F G C U V E R N • R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 / 9 / 6 9 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 1969. 
Allied Bank International, 
Hotel Commodore - Suite 1500, 
Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of December 4, 1968, the 
Board of Governors approves an increase in the authorized capital 
stock of your Corporation from $15 million to $30 million and an 
increase in the paid-in capital stock of your Corporation from 
$15 million to $16,500,000. It is understood that the additional 
paid-in shares will be purchased by First National Bank in St. 
Louis at a cost of $2 million, of which $1,500,000 represents par 
value of the shares and the remaining $500,000 represents paid-in 
surplus. 
The Board of Governors accordingly also approves the 
amendment of Articles SEVENTH and TENTH of your Corporation's 
Articles of Association, the latter to include the name of the 
new stockholder. 
It should be noted that Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act requires that an increase in issued and outstanding 
capital stock be fully paid in within 90 days after the date of 
this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

101 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
1/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 19 69. 
The Fidelity International Corporation, 
123 South Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of December 18, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold 99 additional shares of 
Titan Cement Company S.A., Athens, Greece, at a cost of approximately 
$2,475, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
\f !.... 
The Board has noted that as of November 30, 1968, the 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and The Fidelity 
Bank exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect 
The foregoing consent is 
given with the understanding that those foreign loans and investments 
will be reduced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the 
guidelines; that the investment now being approved will be made within 
those guidelines; and that due consideration is being given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

102 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 7 
1/9/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T D T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 1969. 
The Fidelity International 
Corporation, 
123 South Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
December 6, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold 65,000 shares of Henry Ansbacher 
& Co. Limited, London, England, at a cost of approximately $376,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board has noted that as of November 30, 1968, the 
foreign loans and investments of your Corporation and The Fidelity Bank 
exceeded the guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit 
restraint effort now in effect. The foregoing consent is given with 
the understanding that those foreign loans and investments will be re-
duced as soon as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; 
that the investment now being approved will be made within those guide-
lines; and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

103 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
1/9/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 9, 19 69. 
The Northern Trust Company, 
230 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to The Northern Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act. to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and 
of Regulation M. The foregoing permission is granted subject to any 
necessary approval of the Illinois State Banking Department. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before February 1, 1970, all rights granted hereby shall 
be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago, when the branch is opened for business. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of the branch. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
of payments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in 
the conduct of the branch's operations, maximum reliance will be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your bank, and that due consideration is being given to the prior-
ities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
d f t h E 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/9/69 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1969. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FfO 
Mr. M. H. Strothman, Jr., 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Strothman: 
As requested in your letter of December 17, 1968, the 
Board of Governors has approved the payment of salaries to 
officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis listed be-
low for the period February 1, 1969, through December 31, 1969. 
Mr. Worcester's annual salary will remain at the rate approved 
by the Board of Governors, effective January 1, 1969, and 
Mr. Lee's annual salary will be at the rate set by your Board 
of Directors at its December 12 meeting. 
Annual 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Robert W. Worcester 
Vice President 
$19,500 
Arthur I. Lee 
Assistant Vice President 
16,000 
• * . . • » 
.:'•', 
'. . ' 
' . 
• 
Very truly yours, 
'•/• 1 : 
"Vs 
.. . uVf •. h . r ( 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

20 
Item No. 10 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
1/9/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 1 
THE SEDAN STATE BANK 
1 
for approval of merger with 
' 
The Peru State Bank 
1 
i 
; 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Sedan State 
Bank, Sedan, Kansas, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
for 
the Board's prior approval of the merger into that bank of The Peru 
State Bank, Peru, Kansas, under the charter and title of The Sedan State 
Bank. The sole office of The Peru State Bank would be discontinued as a 
result of the merger. Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by 
the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act, 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
Proposed merger, 

106 
-2-
\ • 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
:• 
, .... v.,. 
Provided that said merger shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
fcban three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
®xtended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
• •• 
fK' m 
. 
; -v • 
y 
fK 
Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D, C t h i s 
9th day of January, 1969, 
, / 
' • <T • 
-ai.•:. hMf. >\\ J-f.fvri*i 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill, 
'H>y*. Jfi >; • * |<%Mr V " .lit1! ''H 'i 
" 
' 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin, 
«f 
V 
• • . • . v.* 
(Signed) Robert P, Forrestal 
-— 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 

^
m
m 
107 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 11 
1/9/69 
APPLICATION BY THE SEDAN STATE BANK 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
4 THE PERU STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
The Sedan State Bank, Sedan, Kansas ("Sedan Bank"), with 
total deposits of $4.9 million, has applied, pursuant to the Bank 
Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank with The Peru State Bank, Peru,^Kansas 
("Peru Bank"), which has total deposits of $.5 million. 
The 
banks would merge under the charter and name of Sedan Bank, which 
a member of the Federal Reserve System. Kansas law prohibits 
branch banking, and the sole banking office of Peru Bank would be 
discontinued. 
Competition. - Sedan Bank operates its sole office in 
Sedan, which has a population of about 1,700. Peru BankTs sole 
office is located in Peru, approximately seven miles southeast of 
Sedan. 
1/ Figures are as of October 30, 1968. 

2 
1 0 8 
p 
The economy of Chautaugua County, in which both Sedan and 
Peru are located, is primarily agricultural, with the production of 
feeder calves the major source of farm income. Over the past twenty 
•years, there has been a decline in the number of farm units due to 
the continued consolidation into larger units. The population of the 
County has decreased from 9,200 in 1940 to 6,000 in 1960. 
The town of Peru has declined in population from about 
in 1940 to about 340 at the present time. Oil production was 
formerly a major source of revenue in the Peru area, but production 
is now nominal, and major oil companies have withdrawn from the area. 
/.'•>; i< y. 
The area served by Peru Bank lies within the area served 
by Sedan Bank. However, of Peru Bank's total deposits of $500,000, 
38 per cent represents public funds. In addition, Peru Bank has a 
low lending limit ($8,000 or $14,000 on qualified agricultural 
loans) that has prevented it from being a fully effective competitor. 
One other bank, The First National Bank of Sedan, with 
deposits of $4.5 million, is located in Sedan. The two next closest 
banks to Sedan are located 16 miles west and 21 miles southeast. 
' The effect of the merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
v banking factors with respect to Sedan Bank are satisfactory. The 
-financial condition of Peru Bank is satisfactory, but the size and 
Population trend of the community adversely affect its future 

prospects. Peru Bank is not sufficiently large that it can secure and 
hold capable management. 
Convenience and meeds of the communities. - The only effect 
the merger relative to banking convenience and needs would be in 
the Peru area. Since the banking office in Peru would be closed, the 
nearest source of banking services for customers of the present Peru 
Bank would be Sedan, seven miles from Peru. 
Summary and conclusion, - Consummation of the merger would 
eliminate Peru's only banking office, causing some inconvenience to 
its 
residents and resulting in slightly less banking competition. 
However, the future prospects of Peru Bank are not favorable. 
Its 
limited resources and location in a small community with a declining 
Population have thwarted the bank's diligent efforts to recruit or 
tetain management. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application should 
he approved. 
January 9, 1969. 

1 1 0 
Item No. 12 
1/9/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D # C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
AMERICAN BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
approval of consolidation with 
Woodruff State Bank 
ORDER APPROVING CONSOLIDATION OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by American 
®ank and Trust Company, Lansing, Michigan, a State member bank of the 
Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of the consoli-
dation of that bank and Woodruff State Bank, De Witt, Michigan, under 
fche charter and title of American Bank and Trust Company. As an 
incident to the consolidation, the sole office of Woodruff State Bank 
^ould become a branch of the resulting bank. Notice of the proposed 
consolidation, in form approved by the Board, has been published pur-
suant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material In the light of 
fche factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 

„ 111 
• 2-
Comptroller of; the Currencyt the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration, and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed consolidation, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
" 
< 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that said consolidation shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C. this 9th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
''•>•>. * ' • *• ' 111 ' ! 1 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, end 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman 12artin. 
/Signed/ Robert P. Forrestel 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No. 
K 
1/9/69 
OF THE 
, FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY AMERICAN BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF CONSOLIDATION WITH 
WOODRUFF STATE BANK 
STATEMENT 
American Bank and Trust Company, Lansing, Michigan 
("American Bank"), with total deposits of about $130 million, has 
applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)>(, for 
the Board's prior approval of the consolidation of that bank and 
Woodruff State Bank, De Witt, Michigan ("Woodruff Bank"), which has 
total deposits of $2.8 million. ^ 
The banks would consolidate under 
the charter and name of American Bank, sjhich is a member of the 
Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the consolidation, the 
s°le office of Woodruff Bank would become a branch of American Bank, 
increasing the number of its offices to ten. 
Competition. - American Bank operates its main office and 
seven branches in the City of Lansing, which has a population of about 
1/ 
Figures are as of June 30, 1968. 

113 
Si. 
132,000, and one branch in Holt, which is four miles south of Lansing. 
Woodruff Bank is located in De Witt, eight miles north of the center 
Lansing, and operates no branch offices. 
Although the main offices of American Bank and Woodruff 
fiank are only eight miles apart, three other banks each operate at 
ieast one office in the intervening area. Woodruff Bank originates 
0nly a negligible amount of its loans and deposits in Lansing, while 
American Bank originates a small proportion of its deposits in the 
D e Witt area. However, American Bank does obtain a sizable volume of 
instalment and real estate loans in De Witt. The volume of real estate 
xoans arises primarily from Lansing building contractors who develop real 
estate in the De Witt area, and many of the instalment loans are from 
merchants who sell their conditional sales contracts to American Bank. 
The possibility of more effective competition developing in 
the future is not significant. Under Michigan lav;, neither American 
Bank nor Woodruff Bank may establish de novo offices in the community 
served by the other bank. 
Ten banks operate offices in the Lansing area. The largest' 
bank i n the area is Michigan National Bank, which operates offices of 
substantial size in other cities of Michigan and has total deposits 
aPproaching $1 billion, American Bank ranks second in size in the 
Q r ca with about 23 per ccnt of area deposits. The third largest bank, 

114 
-2-
which holds about 1G per cent of area deposits, is part of a chain 
of banks having considerable resources. Consummation of the consoli-
dation would increase American Bank's share of area deposits by about 
•6 per cent. 
Woodruff Bank's closest competitor is the Clinton National 
Bank and Trust Company, St. Johns (deposits of $29 million), which 
operates three offices within a six mile radius of De Witt. The 
Proposed consolidation should not adversely affect that institution. 
The net effect of the proposal on competition would be 
slightly adverse. Some existing competition between the two banks 
would be eliminated, and there would be a slight increase in the con-
centration of banking resources in the Lansing area. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to American Bank are reasonably satis-
factory and would remain so after the proposed consolidation. Future 
prospects for American Bank and the Lansing area are favorable. 
The financial resources of Woodruff Bank are satisfactory, 
and its management is capable. Its future prospects are fair. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The city of 
De Witt is a small community of about 1,600 population. Although only 
eight miles from downtown Lansing, De Witt has, until recently, been 
located outside the path of development. With more intensive growth 

in the direction of De Witt developing now and in the near future, 
the demand for banking services there should also increase. The 
consolidation of American Bank and Woodruff Bank should enable the 
hanking office in De Witt to provide these services. 
American Bank can provide residents of De Witt with easy 
access to trust services and, through increased lending limits and a 
wider range of lending services, can support more fully the economic 
development of the De Witt area. 
Summary and conclusion. - While the overall effect of the 
Proposed consolidation on competition would be slightly adverse, the 
conversion of the sole office of Woodruff Bank into a branch of 
American Bank would tend to serve better the convenience and needs of 
the De Witt area in a time of impending population growth and economic 
development. On balance, the Board has concluded that the appli-
cation should be approved. 
January 9, 1569. 
