FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
October 6, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
Robertson 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

27.91 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 6, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Ass istant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

10/6/70 
-2-
Bank Securities, Inc. After review of documentation that had 
been distributed, the Board unanimously approved applications by Bank 
Securities, Inc., Alamogordo, New Mexico, to acquire shares of (1) 
American Bank of Commerce, Albuquerque, New Mexico, and (2) Security 
Bank, Ruidoso, New Mexico. The Board also authorized the issuance of 
orders reflecting these decisions in the form attached as Items 1 and 2, 
respectively. Letters sent to the applicant are attached as Items 3 and 4. 
First Wisconsin Bankshares. 
Background material distributed 
in connection with the application of First Wisconsin Bankshares 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of West Racine 
Bank, Racine, Wisconsin, included a staff recommendation for approval. 
Discussion reflected a general view in favor of approving the 
application, although Governor Robertson commented critically on the 
gradual movement on the part of First Wisconsin Bankshares, already a 
dominant influence in the State, toward acquiring banks in all signifi-
cant markets. Also, the lead bank in the holding company system was 
correspondent for about 300 other banks in Wisconsin. 
He thought the 
time was approaching when a line should be drawn. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration and that Governor Robertson 
would prepare a concurring statement. 

2 7 9 3 
10/6/70 
-3-
Governor Brimmer observed that some time had passed since a 
general analysis of the banking structure in Wisconsin had been prepared 
by the staff, and it was agreed that another review should be undertaken. 
Southeast Bancorporation. 
In a memorandum dated October 1, 1970, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed the applications 
of Southeast Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of 
(1) Hollywood Bank and Trust Company, Hollywood, Florida; (2) The Bank 
of Hollywood Hills, Hollywood, Florida; and (3) Bank of Miramar, Miramar, 
Florida (all members of the "Mailman Group"). The Division recommended 
denial of the first two applications and approval of the third. The 
Banking Markets Section recommended denial of the first application and 
approval of the other two. 
Discussion turned first to whether the three applications should 
be treated as a package. 
It was understood that the applicant probably 
so intended, although separate applications had been filed. 
It was 
observed that if the Board took different positions with respect to the 
individual applications, the applicant was free to abandon its plans 
if only the package approach would serve its purpose. There was 
general agreement that package applications for expansion should 
ordinarily be discouraged. 
Evaluation of the applications disclosed a unanimous view to 
deny the application to acquire Hollywood Bank and Trust Company and to 
aPprove acquisition of Bank of Miramar. However, views were mixed with 

2 7 9 4 
10/6/70 
-4-
respect to acquisition of The Bank of Hollywood Hills. Action was 
therefore deferred until additional members of the Board could par-
ticipate . 
Florida National Banks. By order dated August 13, 1970, the 
Board approved the application of Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of voting shares of 30 Florida banks. 
It subsequently 
developed that some of the banks felt that the proposed exchange 
ratios should be adjusted, and a revised agreement had been reached. 
In a memorandum dated October 2, 1970, the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation expressed the view that the modified proposal 
was equitable and recommended that the applicant be informed that the 
Board did not regard the modifications as being outside the purview of 
its approval action. A draft of letter was attached. 
The letter was approved unanimously; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Marketing of Treasury bills. When the Treasury decided to 
raise the minimum denomination of Treasury bills from $1,000 to $10,000, 
one reason cited was that "the processing cost for subscriptions sub-
mitted by individuals to the Federal Reserve Banks amounts to approxi-
mately $15 to $20 per item." Chairman Fascell of the Subcommittee on 
Legal and Monetary Affairs of the House Committee on Government Opera-
tions requested that the General Accounting Office evaluate this cost 

27.95 
10/6/70 
-5-
estimate and inquire into related marketing questions. The GAO responded 
in part that to the extent that the increase in the minimum bill denomi-
nation eliminated small noncompetitive bidders, the Treasury must 
accept a larger amount of competitive bids in order to sell the entire 
bill offering, and therefore its interest cost would be increased. The 
t 
.. 
. 
Office recommended that the Treasury "consider the desirability of 
changing the policy of pricing noncompetitive tenders for Treasury bills 
from the average to the high price of the accepted competitive bids even 
though the minimum bill denomination remains at $10,000." 
In a letter to Chairman Burns, Representative Fascell requested 
"any comments you might care to make" on the report by the General 
Accounting Office. A draft reply to Chairman Fascell, prepared by Mr. 
^eir, commented on the recommendation in the GAO report. 
t 
Discussion emphasized the desirability of coordinating the 
• i V \ .•>• I .... 
Board's reply with that to be made by the Treasury, which had received 
a similar request from Chairman Fascell. Mr. Keir indicated that the 
draft letter was similar to the reply the Department expected to make, 
except that it discussed another possible alternative to the present 
Procedure. The view of members of the Board was averse to volunteering 
that alternative. 
There was also a view that a less detailed reply to Congressman 
Fascell would be appropriate, and suggestions were made to that end. 

ZVm; 
10/6/70 
-6-
At the conclusion of the discussion unanimous approval was 
given to the sending of a reply in the form attached as Item No. 6, 
subject to a final check with the Treasury and the Trading Desk. 
(No te: That having been done, the letter was sent.) 
Other actions. After review of background material that had 
been distributed, the Board unanimously approved the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under the item numbers indicated: 
Item No. 
Letter to Mr. Homer L. Bruce, Houston, Texas, 
7 
regarding the status under Regulation U of 
shares in Trinity Petroleum Trust. 
Letter to Mr. Byron Moser, Sr., St. Louis, 
8 
Missouri, regarding the acquisition in 1951 
by Mercantile Commerce Bank and Trust Company 
of St. Louis of the stock of Mercantile Commerce 
National Bank. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Voluntary foreign credit restraint program. In a memorandum 
dated October 2, 1970, Governor Brimmer noted that interagency discus-
sions would soon get under way to determine what changes, if any, would 
be made in the U.S. capital restraint programs for 1971. He recommended 
that in preliminary discussions Board representatives take the position, 
with respect to the Federal Reserve program, that no substantial change 
should be made in the intensity of the guidelines taken as a whole, 
but that consideration should be given to administrative improvements 

2 7 9 ? 
10/6/70 
-7-
and, subject to a review of the results of the recently-announced export 
financing inquiry, to any desirable modifications of export credit 
treatment. 
It was the consensus, in discussion, that the U.S. balance of 
payments position was such that no substantial relaxation of existing 
restraints would appear appropriate at this time unless effective alter-
natives were to be introduced. However, if other parties prevailed in 
a view favoring general relaxation of other elements of the restraint 
package, the Board should urge that its VFCR program, which had been 
undertaken at the request of the Executive, be abandoned. The Federal 
Reserve had never held the view that it should have a foreign credit 
restraint program standing by itself; moreover, an isolated program 
would be inequitable and ineffective. 
It was understood also, in respect to the current study of the 
question whether the VFCR program was hindering export financing, that 
ft should be made clear that if the study did disclose impediments the 
Board stood ready to revise its guidelines. However, Governor Brimmer 
^pressed the 
view that, if any action were taken to exclude export 
credit generally from the guidelines, the Federal Reserve program would 
have little impact. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was agreement that it 
would be appropriate for Governor Brimmer, as Board representative in 
tlle coming discussions, to negotiate along the lines indicated. 

2 7 9 8 
10/6/70 
-8-
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration; 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative Services; Mr. Kakalec, 
Controller; and Mr. Anderson, Assistant Director, Division of Adminis-
trative Services, then entered the room. 
Payments mechanism staff. Governor Sherrill stated that the 
Steering Committee on Improving the Payments Mechanism, established 
pursuant to action by the Board and the Conference of Presidents, had 
decided to relocate its staff from the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City to the Board's offices. As part of that move, he recommended that 
two employees of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City be appointed 
to new positions to be established 
in the Division of Federal Reserve 
D 
. 
I i 
Bank Operations. 
The Board unanimously approved Governor Sherrill's recommendation. 
Board Room acoustics. Governor Sherrill referred to studies that 
had been made by Robert A. Hansen Associates, Acoustic Consultants, 
looking toward improvement in the acoustics of the Board Room. The 
findings and recommendations of the consultants had been summarized in 
a memorandum from Mr. Kelleher dated October 1, 1970. Of the options 
mentioned, Governor Sherrill recommended: 
(1) reglazing of the existing 
Board Room sash with acoustic glass at an estimated cost of $11,000; 
and (2) installation of an electronic voice support system at an esti-
mated cost of $9,200. 

2 7 9 9 
10/6/70 
-9-
After a discussion of the relative benefits to be derived from 
the available options, the Board approved proceeding in the manner 
Governor Sherrill had recommended and in that connection approved the 
resulting budget overexpenditure. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Kenyon, 
Leonard, R. Solomon, O'Connell, Johnson, and Axilrod, and Mrs. Semia. 
Officer salary guidelines. Preliminary discussion at the 
meeting on September 29, 1970, of a draft letter to the Chairmen and 
Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks regarding officer salary guide-
lines for 1971 resulted in a decision to defer sending a letter until 
after Governors Brimmer and Daane had conferred with President Galusha, 
Chairman of the Presidents' Conference Committee on Management and 
Personnel. A revised draft letter had now been distributed, accompanied 
by information on the results of operating under the officer salary 
guidelines approved for 1970. 
Governor Brimmer suggested minimizing innovations in the 1971 
guidelines, one reason being that studies by the Conference of Chairmen 
were under way. President Galusha, he said, had urged that the Reserve 
Banks be given as much latitude as feasible, including an option for 
across-the-board increases of about 6 per cent plus the ability to give 
Merit increases to up to 50 per cent of their officers, with increases 
associated with promotions being outside the guidelines. 
President 
Galusha's projection of implementation of such a guideline at the 

2800 
10/6/70 
-10-
Minneapolis Reserve Bank suggested a total increase equal to about 12 
per cent of salaries. This appeared excessive in present circumstances. 
The ensuing discussion included comments on the desirability of 
requesting that the Reserve Banks conduct community surveys as a basis 
for officer salary changes similar to those upon which employee salary 
structures were based, (it was agreed that time did not permit insti-
tuting that procedure this year.) There was also a suggestion that, in 
the future, a maximum amount might be set for across-the-board increases 
and a maximum amount for total increases, within which the Banks could 
operate more flexibly. 
After agreement upon editorial changes, a letter to the Reserve 
Bank Chairmen and Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 9 was 
approved, reflecting agreement with the view that only modest guideline 
changes should be effected at this juncture. 
Discount rates. The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on October 2, 
1970, had established a rate of 5-3/4 per cent (rather than 6 per cent) 
on discounts for and advances to member banks under sections 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Act, a rate of 6-1/4 per cent (rather than 6-1/2 
per cent) on advances to member banks under section 10(b), and a rate of 
7-1/2 per cent on advances under the last paragraph of section 13. No 
let ter in support of the telegraphic advice had as yet become available 
to the Board. 

2801 
10/6/70 
-11-
After discussion, it was decided to take no action at this time 
on the rates established by the Boston Bank. 
The establishment without change by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on October 1 and by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 2, 1970, of the rates on discounts 
and advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with 
the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2 8 0 2 
Item No. 1 
10/6/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANK SECURITIES, INC., 
Alamogordo, New Mexico, 
for approval of acquisition of 51 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
American Bank of Commerce, Albuquerque, 
New Mexico. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.s.c. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bank Securities, 
lnc«, Alamogordo, Hqv iiexico ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
hiding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
51 Her cent or more of the voting shares of American Bank of Commerce, 
Alh 
A°uquerque, New Mexico ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n° t i c e 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the 

2 8 0 3 
State of New Mexico, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner indicated that he had no objection to the approval of the 
application* 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 30, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12239), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
W a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
Actors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial resources 
°f Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
t h e communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the smallest of three registered bank holding 
c°nipanies and the fifth largest banking organization in New Mexico, has 
four subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $42 million, representing 
3 2 
Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All 
bai*king data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank holding 
c°Ripany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
U p° n acquisition of Bank ($29 million deposits), Applicant would remain 
the smallest bank holding company, but would become the fourth largest 

2 8 0 4 
-3-
banking organization in the State, controlling 5.5 per cent of commercial 
bank deposits in New liexico. 
Bank is the fourth largest of six banks in the Albuquerque 
market, which approximates Bernalillo County, and holds 6 per cent 
of that market's deposits. Its three principal competitors are not 
only larger than Bank, but are larger than Applicant is or would become 
as a result of the proposal. Applicant's closest subsidiary is 
headquartered in Sandoval County, 85 miles from Albuquerque; although 
that bank has a branch office located 14 miles northwest of Albuquerque, 
neither it nor any other of Applicant's present subsidiaries compete with 
Bank to a significant extent. Nor does it appear likely that such 
competition would develop, because of the New liexico law effectively 
limiting branching to the home office county of each bank and the 
distances between Applicant's present subsidiaries and Bank. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in 
any relevant area. Considerations relating to the financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and 
Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. Bank, 
Rawing on Applicant's resources, would expand its services so as to 
compete more effectively with much larger competitors in its area; 
sPecialiZed loan services and trust services would be provided. It is 
Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest, and that the application should be approved. 

2805 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 6, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors iiitchell and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

2806 
Item No. 2 
10/6/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON,. D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BANK SECURITIES, INC. f 
Alamogordo, New Mexico, 
for approval of acquisition of 62.5 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Security Bank, Ruidoso, New Mexico. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Re8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Bank Securities, 
Inc«, Alamogordo, Slew iiexico ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 
62 5 
Per cent or more of the voting shares of Security Bank, Ruidoso, 
Mexico ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice, c 
o t receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of 
the 
e State of New Mexico, and requested his views and recommendation. 

- 2 -
2 8 0 7 
The Commissioner indicated that he had no objection to the approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 7i 1970 (35 Federal Register 12626), providing 
a n °PP°rtunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
rnl 
e time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
Actors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
th* Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and 
needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the 
Boa*d finds that: 
Applicant, the smallest of three registered bank holding 
C0®Panies and the fourth largest banking organization in New Mexico,has 
f iv 
subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $71 million, representing 
Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank holding 
0tr'Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board, including 
h e acquisition of American Bank of Commerce, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 
h i c h is the subject of a separate Order of today's date.) Upon acquisition 
Bank ($1.3 m i H i o n deposits), Applicant would remain the smallest bank 

2 8 0 8 
-3-
holding company and the fourth largest banking organization in the 
State, controlling 5.6 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
New Mexico. 
Bank is the smaller of two banks in the Ruidoso market area, 
which covers an area 40 by 50 miles in south-central Lincoln County in 
Central New Mexico, and holds approximately 15 per cent of that market's 
deposits. The closest office of any of Applicant's present subsidiaries 
is located 34 miles northwest of Bank, and none of such subsidiaries 
compete with Bank to a significant extent. It does not appear that 
present competition would be eliminated, or significant potential 
competition foreclosed, by consummation of the Applicant's proposal. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consumma-
tion of the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition 
in any relevant area. Considerations relating to the financial and 
managerial resources and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, 
and Bank are regarded as consistent with approval of the application. 
The services of Bank would be improved and expanded, as Bank would 
provide specialized loan services, and, through referral to other 
subsidiaries of Applicant, would make trust services and foreign 
exchange services available to its customers; these considerations 
support approval of the application. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 

2 8 0 9 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
fcfter the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant 
to delegated authority, 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 6 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Daane, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors iiitchell and Haisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2 * 1 0 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 6, 1970 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
.RETURN" RECEIPT' REQUESTED 
Bank Securities, Inc. 
P.O. Drawer 638 
Alamogordo, New Mexico 
Gentlemen: 
88310 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application of Bank Securities, Inc. for oermission 
to acquire 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of American 
Bank of Commerce, Albuquerque, New Mexico. 
action. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order and press release on this 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should 
be given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
In approving the application, the Board gave weight to 
the improvement in the asset condition of the present subsidiaries, 
to the proposed strengthening of capital in Bank, and to assurances 
that the loan and capital accounts of each subsidiary will be main-
tained within acceptable standards in the future. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
E n d osures 

• V ofcoi^V. 
2 8 1 1 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
10/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 6, 1970 
AIR HAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Bank Securities, Inc. 
P.O. Drawer 638 
Alamogordo, New Mexico 
88310 
tj-s-ir ; 
/ ; 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the application of Bank Securities, Inc. for 
Permission to acquire 62.5 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Security Bank, Ruidoso, New Mexico. 
Enclosed is the Board's Order and the press release 
this action. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the acquisition herein approved 
is to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should 
be given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
In approving the application, the Board gave weight to 
the improvement in the asset condition and capital level of the 
Present and proposed subsidiaries, and to assurances that the loan 
and capital accounts of the subsidiaries will be maintained within 
acceptable standards in the future. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosures 

B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2 8 1 2 
Item No. 5 
10/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 6, 1970 
Mr. Edward Ball, President, 
Florida National Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Florida National Bank Building, 
Jacksonville, Florida 
Dear Mr. Ball: 
Your letter of September 11, 1970 indicated that the 
Presidents of the thirty banks of the Florida National Group, 
in a meeting held after the Board's action, on August 13, 1970, 
approving the application of Florida National Banks of Florida, 
Inc. to become a bank holding company, had suggested certain 
modifications in the exchange ratios proposed in the application. 
After reviewing the listing of exchange ratios attached 
to your letter, and comparing them with those presented and con-
sidered in connection with the original application, the Board has 
concluded that the changes proposed are not so substantial as to be 
outside the purview of its earlier approval action. Accordingly, 
consummation of the exchanges on the basis of the ratios now proposed 
would be regarded as consistent with the Board's action of August 13, 
Very truly yours, 
1970 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

2 8 1 3 
Item No. 6 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
10/6/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON. D. C. 20551 
October 6, 1970 
The Honorable Dante B. Fascell 
Chairman 
Legal and Monetary Affairs Subcommittee. 
of the Committee on Government Operations 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
J- am writing in reply to your September 10 request for comment 
on the Comptroller General's report to the Legal and Monetary 
Affairs Subcommittee, entitled "Raise in Minimum Denomination 
of Treasury Bills". 
The report recommends that the Treasury-
allot all noncompetitive tenders in its bill auctions at the highest 
Price bid by competitors rather than the average price as under 
present procedures. 
The principal problem with the GAO proposal is that the highest 
competitive price bid in Treasury bill auctions is usually 
unrepresentative. 
Almost invariably it is an extreme item 
separated by a relatively wide margin f r o m the point at which 
m o s t competitive bids begin to cluster. 
At times the disparity 
between the highest price and other bids is so wide that it 
suggests the bidder may have made an arithmetic or clerical 
error. 
1ft addition to being unrepresentative, use of the highest bid as 
a standard for alloting noncompetitive tenders could involve the 
Treasury in important practical difficulties. 
Anyone prepared 
t o place a small tender at an unusually high price could manipulate 
price at which all noncompetitive bids were awarded. 
Dealers, 
example, who would benefit f r o m a decline in the volume of 

The Honorable Dante B. Fas cell 
- 2 -
noncompetitive tenders, might be tempted to insert a small 
extreme bid through a dummy f i r m . 
And even if there were 
no such manipulation, a series of extreme prices in a succession 
of auctions might still create suspicions of manipulation among 
noncompetitive bidders. 
Finally, even the minor savings in 
interest costs that might result f r o m the GAO's proposal would 
not be sufficient, in our judgment, to justify further antagonizing 
small investors in Treasury bills by decreasing, 
however 
slightly, the return they can realize. 
In view of the preceding considerations, the Board believes that 
it is preferable to continue the existing practice of alloting non-
competitive tenders at the auction average. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. Burns 

2 8 1 5 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
10/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 7, 1970 
Mr. Homer L. Bruce, 
Baker, Botts, Shepherd & Coates, 
Esperson Building, 
Houston, Texas. 7 7002 
Dear Mr. Bruce: 
This refers to the correspondence between yourself and 
Mr. George Rudy, General Counsel of the Dallas Reserve Bank, 
Mr. Robert P. Forrestal, formerly Assistant Secretary to the Board 
°f Governors, and Governor Sherrill, of the Board, regarding the 
status, under section 221.3(1) of the Board's Regulation U, of shares 
ln Trinity Petroleum Trust. Governor Sherrill has asked that the 
questions discussed in this correspondence be reviewed by the Board 
a s a whole. This letter expresses the conclusion of the Board, 
reached as a result of that review. 
Summarized briefly, the facts are as follows. Trinity 
Petroleum Company was organized in 1947 to purchase oil and gas 
royalties. In 1951, the corporation was dissolved and the royalties 
conveyed to a trust, except for certain Louisiana royalties, which 
ecause of complications under Louisiana law, were conveyed to a new 
corporation formed for the purpose, all the shares of- which were 
conveyed to the trust. 
There were 192,500 shares of stock in the corporation in 
-'51, held by 94 shareholders. Each shareholder received an equiv-
alent number of shares of the trust, represented by "certificates of 
eneficial interest." These certificates are freely transferable. 
The only function of the trustee is to pay expenses in 
connection with the administration of the trust estate, and to pay 
°ver royalties to the shareholders. A majority in interest of the 
shareholders may consent to the dissolution of the Louisiana corpora-
may remove the trustee and appoint a successor, and may extend 
life of the trust after the date of termination originally pro-
vided. The holders of 80 per cent in interest of the shares may 
tGrminate the trust. 

2&IK 
Mr. Homer L. Bruce 
- 2 -
In your letter and briefs submitted to the Board, you contend, 
essentially, that the purpose, of section 7 of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 was to prevent the excessive use of credit on securities 
that are registered on national securities exchanges, that Regulation U 
is limited under its terms to credit on stocks, that the certificates 
in question are not stocks, that they are not "voting trust certificates" 
(also included in the definition of "stock" in section 221.3(1)), 
because the trustee has no authority to manage the affairs of the trust 
but has ministerial duties only, and finally, that the Board has not 
given notice, as required under the Administrative Procedure Act, of 
its intent to subject to margin requirements credit on certificates 
of beneficial interest in trusts holding oil and gas leases. 
However, the preamble to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
and the specific language of section 7(a) show that the purpose of 
Congress in enacting that legislation was to direct the Board to adopt 
regulations in order to prevent the excessive use of credit for the 
purpose of purchasing or carrying specified types of securities, 
rather than to regulate the use of securities as collateral. For this 
reason, brokers and dealers are forbidden to extend credit to purchase 
or carry securities, except as authorized by the Board, on any col-
lateral whatever, or on no collateral. The Board is given authority 
to regulate credit extended by other lenders, if the credit is to 
purchase or carry securities, regardless of the collateral offered 
(except for loans by banks on certain bonds). 
Pursuant to this directive, in adopting Regulation U, the 
Board sought to exercise the broadest possible spectrum of its 
authority compatible with due regard for the administrative burden 
imposed on banks. 
In order that banks should not be required to 
search out the purpose of every loan they made, the Board limited the 
scope of the regulation to credit that is collateralized in any way, 
to any extent, by any stock whatever. The purpose of this limitation, 
however, as already stated, was merely to simplify operations under 
the regulation (12 CFR 221.113; 1961 Federal Reserve Bulletin 657; 
Published Interpretations of the Board of Governors 
6400.2). For 
this reason, the term "stock" was broadly defined to include "any 
security commonly known as a stock" and "any voting trust certificate 
or other instrument representing such a security." 
In the opinion of the Board, the change from shares in 
Trinity Petroleum Company to shares in Trinity Petroleum Trust was 
a change in form, not substance. 
Shares in the latter are the 
functional equivalent of shares in the first. Accordingly, shares 
in the trust would be included in the term "security commonly known 
as a stock." The resemblance at many points of the shares to shares 

2 8 1 7 
Mr. Homer L. Bruce 
- 3 -
in a voting trust, pointed out by Mr. Rudy, as well as inclusion 
in the trust corpus of stock of another corporation, tend to reinforce 
this conclusion. 
It should be emphasized that this letter represents merely 
an advisory opinion of the Board as to the meaning of its regulation. 
Neither the Securities and Exchange Commission nor the Department 
of Justice, the agencies of the Government charged with enforcement 
of regulations issued pursuant to the 1934 Act, nor a court of law 
would consider itself bound to reach the same conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

J 3 S 1 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
D F T H E 
O F F I C E O F THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 8 
10/6/70 
October 6, 1970 
Mr. Byron Moser, Sr. 
1139 Olive Street 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63101 
Dear Mr. Moser: 
We have carefully considered the matter you dis-
cussed with me in my office on September 22, 1970, in-
cluding the materials of which you left copies, and your 
letter of September 29. 
In essence, I understand that your position is 
that the acquisition in 1951 by Mercantile Commerce Bank 
and Trust Company of St. Louis (now Mercantile Trust Com-
pany National Association) of the stock of the old Mercan-
tile Commerce National Bank (now Mercantile-Commerce Trust 
Company) was a violation of federal law and that the Board 
of Governors should now order that the stock, presently 
held by a subsidiary of Mercantile Trust Company, be "re-
turned" to certain trustees in order that it may be liqui-
dated and the proceeds distributed to holders of certifi-
cates of beneficial interest in the stock of the old 
Mercantile Commerce National Bank. 
From an examination of our records, it appears that 
in 19 34 the stock of the national bank then owned by the 
Trust Company was placed in the hands of trustees with an 
option on the part of the Trust Company to repurchase the 
stock; that this option was exercised in 1951, but that 
the stock was transferred on the following day to a sub-
sidiary of the Trust Company and that the stock of that 
subsidiary was placed in the hands of trustees for the 
benefit of shareholders of Mercantile Trust Company; that 
in 1951 you and certain associates brought suit and re-
covered a judgment against the Trust Company for an ac-
counting with respect to the price paid when it acquired 
the stock; that in 1956, while that suit was pending on 

B O A R D 
• F 
C O V E R N O f i S 
C F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2 8 1 9 
Mr. Byron Moser, Sr.:--#2 
appeal, you and associates filed another suit against 
the Trust Company alleging the illegality of the Trust 
Company's acquisition of the stock; that in September 
1960 the Circuit Court of St. Louis held that the trans-
action in question had not been a violation of any state 
or federal statute; and that in December 1961 the Supreme 
Court of Missouri, without discussing the legality of the 
transaction, held that you and the other plaintiffs were 
precluded from attacking the legality of the transaction 
because the question of legality had not been raised in 
the earlier suit for an accounting. 
Even if the doctrine of "laches" were not suffi-
cient to preclude any action in this matter by the Board 
of Governors, it seems clear that the Board is not now 
in a position to take any action of the kind requested 
by you that would be effective and enforceable. As you 
know, Mercantile Trust Company, formerly a state member 
bank, converted to a national charter in December 1964. 
Consequently, the Trust Company is now subject to primary 
supervision by the Comptroller of the Currency and only 
the Comptroller would be in a position to institute any 
proceedings or take any action with respect ,to the ac-
tivities of the Trust Company. 
I have reviewed the matter with the Board of Gov-
ernors and the Board has concluded that there is no ap-
propriate action that it may take in connection with this 
matter. 
Sincerely, 

B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
« 2 0 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
10/6/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 7, 1970. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
(ADDRESSED INDIVIDUALLY TO THE CHAIRMEN AND PRESIDENTS OF ALL 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS) 
Dear Sir: 
The procedures for establishing Reserve Bank officers' 
salaries are currently being reexamined. The Chairman's Conference 
Committee on Salary Administration for Officers has been meeting, 
but it appears that there will be no recommendations forthcoming 
before next year. The Board, through its Committee on Organization, 
Compensation, and Building Plans, is also studying ways of improv-
ing the procedure. 
However, until the reexamination is completed, 
we believe tnat no basic departure should be made from -the guide-
lines adopted last year. 
- 
-
As you will recall, it was suggested last year that if 
Reserve Banks desired to increase 1970 official salaries on an 
across-the-board basis; they use a 5 per cent guideline in tne 
adjustment process. 
Banks using this guide were expected to 
confine merit adjustments to a very limited number of officers. 
As an alternative. Banks not using tne across-the-board^increase 
might recommend merit adjustments for half of their officers, 
excluding promotions. 
As it developed, eight Banks made across-the-board 
increases to some extent, with the change averaging 5.0 per cent. 
All the Banks gave merit increases, and the average was 4.0 per 
cent. 
In combination, the across-the-board plus merit raises 
amounted to an increase of 7.3 per cent. Salary increases 
associated with promotions added another 1.0 per cent, so that 
the total increase in officers' salaries effective January 1, 1970, 
amounted to 8.3 per cent. 

B O A R D 
D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2 8 2 1 
- 2 -
The Board continues to believe that the System's record of 
salary administration at this time must reflect concern for avoiding 
wage and salary actions that escalate inflationary trends and attitudes. 
In addition, in some areas the market for white-collar employment seems 
a good deal more slack than in recent years. This fact, too, may help 
to decrease the competitive pressures on salary rates. 
On the basis of information the Board has received, it 
appears that a number of Federal Reserve Banks may want to make an 
across-the-board adjustment effective January 1, 1971. While it is 
not possible to anticipate precisely the size of the change that 
might be needed, the Board doubts that it need exceed 6 per cent. 
Therefore, if a Reserve Bank desires to increase its official salaries 
on an across-the-board basis, it should do so with the understanding 
that it should be able to support its specific recommendation. As _ 
before, Banks using this procedure will be expected to exercise special 
restraint in their merit adjustments, other than those accompanying 
promotions. The Board hopes that they will be able to keep the number 
of merit increases well below 50 per cent of all officers. 
To summarize, the guidelines for 1971 are as follows: 
1. An across-the-board adjustment may be made as needed 
and justified, with the understanding that the result-
ing increase will be kept as close to 6 per cent as 
possible. 
2. Merit increases should reflect recent performance and 
anticipated future value to the Reserve Bank. 
3 
To maintain selectivity, the Board will not ordinarily 
approve increases of more than 50 per cent of the 
officer staff of each Reserve Bank in a given year. 
If the across-the-board adjustment is used, the 
proportion of staff receiving merit adjustments snould 
be well below 50 per cent. 
4. Promotional increases are excluded from the 50 per cent 
guideline. A promotion must involve concurrent change 
in the level of responsibility, and ordinarily in title. 
With respect to the increase in the basic salary structure 
effective January 1, 1969, the understanding as to use of titles and 
Salary Group D continues to apply. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
2 8 2 2 
-3-
Except for increases incident to promotions, requests for 
approval of salary changes should be made at the time of the annual 
review; at other times, only under unanticipated circumstances. 
Salaries of officers proposed for the year beginning January 1, 
1971, should be submitted to the Board of Governors not later than 
November 30, 1970. The Board believes that, as in the past, it would 
be mutually helpful if its Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans (comprised of Governors Maisel (Chairman), Brimmer and 
Daane) could discuss with each President preliminary salary and promo.-
tional plans before the Bank submits its proposals formally to the 
Board of Governors for action. 
Prior to that meeting, it would assist the Board's staff in 
the preparation of material for the Committee's use if proposal data 
could be submitted at least a week in advance of the meeting. A table 
with the following information for each officer would expedite staff 
review and analysis: salary group, name (as it should appear on list 
of officers for circulation to other Reserve Banks), title (present 
and proposed), principal department(s) or function(s) supervised, 
present salary, proposed increase (across-the-board, merit, promotional, 
etc.), and proposed salary. 
In recent years most of the Presidents have discussed promo-
tions contemplated in the ensuing year as a result of retirements, 
expected separations, or the restructuring of operations. The Board 
believes this policy is helpful to its consideration of merit raises 
and requests each Bank to include such information with its presenta-
tion this year. 
The Committee would also like to be advised, at the time of 
the discussion of officer salaries, of plans your Bank may have for 
building projects of a major nature during the next five years. 
It will be appreciated if each President would schedule his 
meeting with the Committee for the purpose of discussing salaries, 
promotions, and building projects prior to November 30, 1970. 
This letter is being sent to the Chairman and President of 
each Federal Reserve Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary 
