FR 609 
Minutes for 
February 2, 1970 
To: 
From: 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required no 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Members of the Board 
Office of the Secretary 
nlacr-: 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 2, 1970. 
The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
There was a general discussion, at the instance of Chairman 
Burns, devoted chiefly to matters of Board organization, operations, 
and procedures. 
A memorandum summarizing this discussion has been 
sent to each member of the Board by the Secretary, and a copy has been 
placed in the confidential files of the Secretary's Office. 
The following then joined the meeting: 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Fisher, Senior Economist, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Chairman Burns referred to his forthcoming appearance before 
tjvf 
• • ' 
. 
i 
- • 
, 
: . •• •• r 
. ' r . i. \s , •. • IV;-Tv ' - "' • • . 
the House Banking and Currency Committee on Saturday, February 7, in 
connection with hearings being held by the Committee on conditions 
relating to the production, financing, and use of housing. 
He presented 
an outline of several matters that might be dealt with in the statement 

If > 5 
2/2/70 
-2-
he would offer at that time and solicited the views of the Board members 
on the broad issues involved. 
There followed a discussion during which clarification was 
given regarding positions that the Board had taken in the past, particu-
larly in the form of reports on various legislative proposals. 
Board 
members also expressed views on other types of measures for the aid 
of housing and improvement of the mortgage market that it was felt could 
appropriately be endorsed by the Federal Reserve. 
Chairman Burns requested, 
on certain points, that he be further informed by the staff after the 
meeting as to the status of issues directly affecting the Federal Reserve 
System, especially the proposal for direct purchase by the System of 
housing agency issues. 
During the discussion Chairman Burns referred to the possibility 
of indicating to the Committee that the Federal Reserve would be prepared 
to undertake a study of what was necessary to afford the housing market 
more equitable access to credit, particularly when conditions were 
stringent. 
Board members expressed some reservations about the desir-
ability of volunteering such a study, citing among other things the 
number of research studies already made in this general area, policy problems 
that might result from the System standpoint, resource requirements, 
and the prospect that a number of conclusions might be drawn from avail-
able evidence, at least insofar as Federal Reserve System involvement 
was concerned. 

' 106 
2/2/70 
- 3 -
In light of these comments, Chairman Burns said that he would 
give the 
matter further thought, along with other points covered at this 
meeting, and that a draft of statement would be made available to the 
Board members for consideration later this week. 
A number of other members of the Board's staff, principally 
from the research divisions, then joined the meeting and the usual weekly 
money market review, focusing on the Government securities market, bank 
credit, and foreign exchange market developments, was presented. 
It was 
understood that copies of the staff papers would be distributed to the 
members of the Board for further study. 
Copies also have been placed 
in the Board's files, together with copies of the charts and statistical 
tables prepared for the purpose of today's review. 
