Minutes for 
J a n u a r y 13> 
1 9 6 9 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 

143 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 13, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Eaton of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Sigel, Williams, 
Wernick, Eckert, Weiner, Baker, Ettin, 
Gehman, Kichline, Trueblood, Wetzel, and 
Zeisel of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Hersey, Irvine, Norwood, Pizer, Altmann, 
Bryant, Gekker, Henry, Maroni, and Smith of 
the Division of International Finance 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of domestic and 
international economic and financial developments of the kind custom-
arily given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee 
The comments in today's review were based in part on material prepared 
for tomorrow's Committee meeting, and copies of the relevant documenta-
tion have been placed in the Committee's files. 

1/13/69 
- 2 -
Members of the research divisions other than Messrs. Brill 
and Partee then withdrew, as did Messrs. Broida, Sherman, and Bernard 
and Miss Eaton. The following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Heyde, Attorney, Legal Division 
Application of Depositors Corporation (Items 1 and 2). 
Issuance of an order and statement reflecting the decision on Decem-
ber 20, 1968, to approve the application of Depositors Corporation, 
Augusta, Maine, to acquire shares of Newport Trust Company, Newport, 
Maine, was authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, are 
attached as Items 1 and 2, respectively. 
Application of Bank of Wood County Company (Items 3 and 4). 
Issuance of an order and statement reflecting the decision on January 2, 
1969, to deny the application of The Bank of Wood County Company, 
Bowling Green, Ohio, to merge The Hardy Banking Company, North 
Baltimore, Ohio, was authorized. Copies of the documents, as issued, 
are attached as Items 3 and 4, respectively. 
Reserve Bank salaries (Items 5 and 6). Unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia approving 

145 
1/13/69 
-3-
the payment of salaries to certain officers at rates fixed by the 
Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Unanimous approval also was given to a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York approving the payment of salaries to certain 
officers at rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
One-bank holding companies (Item No. 7). The Secretary pro-
posed that a letter be sent to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks advising of the study being made by the Board and its staff of 
the one-bank holding company question and inviting comments and sug-
gestions . 
There was agreement that the sending of such a letter would 
be appropriate. Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy of the letter sub-
sequently sent. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 5 
1/13/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 1 
DEPOSITORS CORPORATION, 
Augusta, Maine, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of not ' 
les 
s than 80 per cent of the voting 
shares of Newport Trust Company, 
Newport, Maine. 
1 
• 
1 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
• •. : t • ' • . ....... 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Depositors 
Corporation, Augusta, Maine, a registered bank holding company, for 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 
per cent of the voting shares of Newport Trust Company, Newport, 
Maine. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the office of the 

_ 147 
Bank Commissioner for the State of Maine and requested views and 
recommendation thereon. The office of the Bank Commissioner 
responded that it had no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on November 28, 1968 (33 Federal Register 17833), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those 
received have been considered by the Board, 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or 
fy the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 13th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Martin. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

148 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
1/13/69 
APPLICATION BY DEPOSITORS CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF THE VOTING SHARES OF 
NEWPORT TRUST COMPANY, NEWPORT, MAINE 
STATEMENT 
Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine ("Applicant"), a 
registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acqui-
sition of not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of Newport 
Trust Company, Newport, Maine ("Bank"). Applicant presently controls 
1/ 
three banks which hold deposits of $146 million. 
Bank has total 
deposits of $5.° million. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the office of 
Bank Commissioner for the State of Maine of receipt of the appli-
cation and requested its views and recommendation thereon. The 
office of the Bank Commissioner responded that it had no objection 
to approval of the application. 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1968, unless otherwise noted. 

149 
-2-
Statutory considerations-. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 
°f banking in any part of the United States. Nor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
°f the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in 
restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant 
controls three subsidiary banks having 35 offices and serving 10 of 
Maine's 16 counties. Applicant is the largest banking organization 
in Maine, controlling 14.6 per cent of total deposits held by com-
mercial banks in the State. However, its proposed acquisition of 
Bank, which holds less than one per cent of total deposits in the 
State, would have no significant effect on State-wide concentration 
and would not affect levels of concentration in the separate areas 
served by Applicant's present banking subsidiaries and Bank. 

ISO 
Bank's main office is located in Newport, and its only 
* branch office, a limited facility, is in Corinna, both iti Penobscot 
County. It is the smallest of three banks serving its immediate 
area and the fifth largest 
of six banks having offices in the 
County. Although Bank's competitive ability should be strengthened 
by the proposed affiliation, it does not appear that consummation 
°f the proposal would have significant adverse effects on the 
competitive position of any other bank. 
No offices of Applicant's present banking subsidiaries 
are located in Penobscot County. The nearest of such offices 
(three branches of Depositors Trust Company, the lead bank in Appli-
cant's system) are located in Somerset County, 25 to 30 miles from 
Newport, and appear to offer little competition to Bank. While 
increased competition through d£ novo branching is legally possible, 
such a development is unlikely considering Bank's limited size and 
the fact that, based on an analysis of the existing banking structure, 
branching opportunities in Penobscot County appear relatively 
unattractive. 
The proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly or 
be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopo-
lize the business of banking in any relevant area. Approval of the 

-4-
_ 151 
application and consummation of the proposal would not substan-
tially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain 
trade in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects; -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
satisfactory, their management is regarded as experienced and com-
petent, and their prospects appear favorable. 
Bank's condition and its management are also regarded as 
satisfactory, and its prospects are favorable. 
Considerations relating to ths banking factors, while pro-
viding no significant weight toward approval of the application, 
are consistent therewith. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of the proposed transaction would have no effect on 
customers of Applicant's present subsidiaries, and it appears that 
major banking services are being provided by banks located in 
and near the area served by Bank. However, Applicant has indicated 
that it intends to make Bank a convenient alternative source of 
services presently offered only by the larger btnks in the area by 
providing investment management and data processing services, 
improving the lending ability of Bank through loan participations 
with Applicant's other subsidiaries, and providing specialized advice 
with regard to trust services. 

Considerations under this factor lend some weight 
toward approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
i 
the application should be approved. 
. 
,r 
. 
• 
January 13, 1969. 

153 
Item No. 4 
1/13/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D.C. 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
BANK OF WOOD COUNTY COMPANY 
approval of merger with 
e Hardy Banking Company 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Bank of Wood 
County Company, Bowling Green, Ohio, a State member bank of the Federal 
Re 
serve System, for the Board's prior approval of the merger into 
that bank of The Hardy Banking Company, North Baltimore, Ohio, under 
tlle barter and title of The Bank of Wood County Company. Notice of 
the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been published 
Pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
tVi 
6 factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
CoinPtroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
aw j 
the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
pr°Posed merger, 

154 
-2-
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. 
• • i 
Dated at Washington, D.C., this 13th day of January, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Ilitchell, Daane, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
Voting against this action: Governor Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Ilartin, 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

155 
Item No. 4 
1/13/69 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE BANK OF WOOD COUNTY COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
THE HARDY BANKING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
The Bank of Wood County Company, Bowling Green, Ohio 
("County Bank"), with total deposits of $38.3 million, has applied, 
pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the 
Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank with The Hardy 
Banking Company, North Baltimore, Ohio ("Hardy Bank"), which has 
total deposits of $3.4 million.!/ The banks would merge under the 
charter and name of County Bank, which is a member of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Competition. - County Bank operates its main office and 
°ne branch in Bowling Green and one branch each in Perrysburg and 
North Baltimore, Bowling Green, x^hich has a population of about 
19,000, is situated in the central part of Wood County, 23 miles 
south of Toledo, Wood County's economy is predominantly 
agricultural. 
r r Figures are as of June 29, 1968. 

156 
-2-
North Baltimore, the location of Hardy Bank's sole office, 
situated in Wood County about 15 miles south of Bowling Green and 
miles north of Findlay. A portion of the working population of 
North Baltimore is employed in Findlay. 
North Baltimore has a population of about 3,100. County Bank 
at*d Hardy Bank, whose offices are about one block apart, operate the 
only banking offices in the town. County Bank contemplates, if the 
merger is approved, closing the office operated by Hardy Bank. 
The nearest banking facility to North Baltimore is Cygnet 
Savings Bank Company, with deposits of $10.4 million, located 
f°ur and a half miles north and east. A branch of Tri-County National 
Bank, Fostoria, with total deposits of $33.9 million, is located seven 
miles east of North Baltimore. Two banks headquartered in Findlay, 
together with several small unit banks located within 12 miles of 
N°rth Baltimore, also compete in varying degrees in the North Baltimore 
area. 
County Bank is the largest bank headquartered in Wood County, 
second largest bank in the county is First National Bank, Bowling 
G r e en, with deposits of about $22 million. First National Bank has 
received the approval of the Comptroller of the Currency to establish 
9 fe novo branch in North Baltimore. It is understood that the bank 
d°es not plan to establish the branch if the proposed merger is denied. 
There is no doubt that the merger of County Bank and Hardy 
would eliminate the direct banking competition existing within 
North Baltimore. The establishment of a branch there by First National 

Sank would ameliorate that situation to some extent, biit the new branch 
would not be expected for some time to be fully competitive with the well-
established 
office of the much larger County Bank. 
The Board concludes that the effect of the proposed merger 
0 n competition would be adverse. 
Financial and managerial resources and prospects. - The 
banking factors with respect to each of the banks are reasonably satis-
factory, as they would be with respect to the resulting bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities. - The proposal would 
a£fect banking convenience and needs only in the North Baltimore area. 
services that County Bank presently provides in North Baltimore 
'.'VV.^y- 
"j'.i 
uizztzur'•::>> oif*5.-.^- *. 
• 
not be increased or improved by the merger, and Hardy Bank 
be eliminated as a convenient alternative source of banking services 
Summary and conclusion. - The proposed transaction would 
... 
eliminate one of the two banking offices in North Baltimore, and, con-
S i i r V r ; ^ 
^ - licit 
Sequently, deprive residents of that area of competitive and convenient 
inking alternatives. The possibility of a new banking office being 
Pened i n the community, by yet another bank, with the normal uncertainties 
atfcendant thereon, cannot offset the adverse effect of the proposal on 
^petition. 
Accordingly, the application is denied. 
January 13, 1969. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
1/13/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 13, 1969 
confidential (Fm 
Mr. Robert N. Hilkert, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
: 
>, 
•' •! 
Dear Mr. Hilkert: 
i 
-f-:,, , '3 t V l)- jwtv-'^ iV'-v 
•» ''a^.-rov:-:^ • 
•^f.fc 
As requested in your letter of January 2, 196-9, the Board 
r Governors has approved the payment of salaries at the rates fixed 
y your Board of Directors to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank 
Philadelphia listed below: 
Name 
Ralph E. Haas 
James A. Agnew 
Alexander A. Kudelich 
William F. Staats 
Title 
io r 
"•'. • ". ' . ttoi ; 
Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Assistant Vice President 
Secretary and Senior 
Economist 
Annual 
Salary 
$20,000 
17,000 
17,000 
19,500 
A H salaries listed above will become effective immediately 
and will continue through December 31, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
1/13/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 14, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Alfred Hayes, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment of 
salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
listed below for the period January 2 through December 31, 1969, 
as reported in your 
i . 
. * > * 
Name 
Charles A. Coombs 
Marcus A. Harris 
Alan R. Holmes 
Richard A. Debs 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Ronald B. Gray 
Richard H. Hoenig 
Louis J. Conroy 
John C. Houhoulis 
William H. Wetendorf 
All salaries listed above are as fixed by your Board of 
Directors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
letter of January 3, 1969: 
Annual 
Title 
Salary 
Senior Vice President 
$47,000 
Senior Vice President 
47,000 
Senior Vice President 
46,000 
Vice President 
31,000 
Secretary and 
22,500 
Assistant Counsel 
Cashier (Buffalo) 
22,000 
Manager and 
21,000 
Assistant Secretary 
Manager 
21,500 
Manager 
19,500 
Manager 
22,500 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GDVERNDRB 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 7 
1/13/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
January 14, 1969, 
Dear Sir: 
As you know, the Board has been very much concerned about the 
rapld growth in the number of one-bank holding companies that have 
recently been formed by commercial banks. Accordingly, the Board re-
vested its staff and certain consultants to undertake an intensive 
study of the issues involved in banks engaging, through holding companies 
°r otherwise, in nonbanking activities with a view to presenting to the 
Board a recommended course of action, including, if appropriate, proposed 
legislation that might be introduced early in the 1969 session of Congress. 
Pursuant to that assignment, the Board's staff and some of the 
consultants involved produced a number of papers on various aspects of 
this subject, and a summary memorandum of those efforts, together with 
a tentative staff recommendation, was prepared in the Office of the 
Secretary. Some preliminary discussion of these documents by the Board 
has taken place. 
In connection with its deliberations on this matter, the Board 
Would be very interested in having the benefit of any comments or sugges-
tions concerning the question of legislative regulation of one-bank 
holding companies that you might wish to express. In order that you might 
have the benefit of the key documents that were before the Board, there 
are enclosed copies of the summary memorandum dated January 2, 1969, 
(without the background documents), and a supplementary memorandum from 
m e to the Board dated January 7, 1969. We will be pleased to furnish you 
with copies of any of the numbered background projects cited in the 
metnorandum which might be of interest to you. However, it should be 
recognized that these documents were produced under considerable time 
Pressure, and do not represent a comprehensive research effort. 

In view of the fact that the Board will probably wish to have 
any legislative proposal introduced early in the Congressional session, 
it will be appreciated if you would furnish the Board with your views, 
comments, and suggestions as soon as possible. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
