MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 3, 1969 

3037 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 3, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs . Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
The staff presented the weekly money market review. Copies 
of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been placed 
in the Board's files. 
A number of officers and staff of the research divisions then 
withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3038 
10/3/69 
-2-
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on October 2, 1969, of the rates on advances and discounts in their 
existing schedules was unanimously approved, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Competitive factor reports . The Board unanimously approved 
a report, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of The First 
National Bank of Quantico, Quantico, Virginia, into Virginia National 
Bank, Norfolk, Virginia. The conclusion stated that the proposed 
transaction would have no adverse competitive effects. 
The Board unanimously approved a report, for transmittal to 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of The Clayton National Bank, Clayton, 
New Jersey, with Peoples Bank of South Jersey, Pilesgrove Township, 
New Jersey. The conclusion stated that the proposed transaction would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 

3039 
10/3/69 
-3-
Continental Bank arid Trust Company. In a memorandum dated 
September 25, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval of the application of The Continental Bank and Trust Company, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, to merge Continental Bank of Midvale, Midvale, 
Utah. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the application. 
It was understood that an order and statement reflecting this decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First Banc Group of Ohio. In memoranda dated September 24 
and 25, 1969, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval, respectively, of the applications of First Banc Group of Ohio, 
Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of (1) the successor by merger 
to Coshocton National Bank, Coshocton, Ohio, and (2) the successor by 
merger to First National Bank of Cambridge, Cambridge, Ohio. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the applications. 
It was understood that documents to implement these decisions would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First at Orlando. In a memorandum dated September 19, 1969, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the appli-
cations of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire 
shares of the following banks in Florida: (1) Commercial Bank at Daytona 
Beach, Daytona Beach; (2) Peninsula State Bank at Daytona Beach Shores, 

3040 
10/3/69 
-4-
Daytona Beach Shores; and (3) Exchange Bank at Holly Hill, Holly Hill. 
The Banking Markets Section and the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
recommended denial of the first application and approval of the second 
and third. 
After discussion, the applications with respect to the banks 
in Daytona Beach Shores and Holly Hill were approved unanimously, and 
the application with respect to Commercial Bank at Daytona Beach was 
approved. Governors Robertson and Brimmer dissenting on competitive 
grounds. It was understood that documents to implement these decisions 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a statement 
also would be prepared to reflect the dissents of Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer from the action with respect to Commercial Bank at Daytona 
Beach. 
First at Orlando—Central Park First National Bank. At the 
meeting on August 26, 1969, the Board considered the application of 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares 
of Central Park First National Bank, Orlando, a proposed new bank. 
Action was deferred until a time when all members of the Board could 
Participate. 
Discussion led to a comment by Governor Brimmer that, although 
during the earlier consideration of the application he had been inclined 
to vote for denial, he would now vote for approval. 

3041 
10/3/69 
-5-
The application was approved, Governors Robertson and Maisel 
dissenting for principal reasons relating to concentration and potential 
competition. It was understood that documents to implement this decision 
would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a dissenting 
statement also would be prepared. 
A number of staff members withdrew at this point. 
Brokered deposits. From time to time the Board had received 
letters requesting information regarding nonbanking organizations that 
offered Federally-insured banks' certificates of deposit at yields 
in excess of the rate the issuing bank might lawfully pay. In May 1969 
Chairman Sparkman of the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency had 
inquired about such a practice on the part of The B. C. Morton Organi-
zation (subsequently known as Seaboard Planning Corporation), which 
advertised the availability of insured bank savings certificates of 
deposit to yield up to 7 per cent a year (the maximum rate payable by 
banks being 5 per cent). The Board had replied to Chairman Sparkman 
principally in terms of explanation, namely, that a money broker such 
as Seaboard Planning Corporation arranges for funds to be deposited 
In a bank at the maximum permissible rate, in order to induce the 
bank to extend credit to a specified borrower. The borrower pays the 
broker a fee for his services and a portion of that fee is passed on 
to the depositor, who thereby obtains a yield in excess of the maximum 

10/3/69 
-6-
permissible rate that the bank may pay on the deposit. The reply 
had noted that the source of the payment above the interest rate 
ceiling was the borrower from the bank rather than the bank itself. 
Chairman Sparkman had then inquired whether Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, was being effectively circumvented and whether 
it should be amended to cover this situation. Congressman Hanna had 
also written with respect to similar practices by another organization 
and had asked for suggestions for closing this loophole. 
In a memorandum dated October 1, 1969, the Legal Division noted 
that the matter of deposits obtained through a broker had been under 
consideration by the Board and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
for a number of years. The views of the Board's Legal Division on this 
question differed from those of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
and the staff of the FDIC. The memorandum described the actions the 
FDIC and the Board had taken relating to brokered deposits and discussed 
the legal authority of the Board in the matter and possible legislation 
to regulate such deposits. 
The Legal Division's memorandum also brought out that in June 
1969 the Board, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, and the FDIC, at the 
urging of the latter, had added to their interest rate regulations a 
provision that no person "shall advertise a percentage yield on any 
deposit it solicits for a member bank that is not authorized to be paid 

3043 
10/3/69 
-7-
and advertised by such bank." Despite that provision, Seaboard 
Planning Corporation had not modified the manner in which it advertised 
Federally-insured deposits. 
The memorandum stated the Legal Division's view that the only 
demonstrable need for legislation in the area of brokered deposits was 
to clarify the Board's authority with respect to the provision in its 
Regulation Q applying to brokers the rules governing member bank adver-
tising of interest on deposits and to provide a suitable penalty for 
violations of that provision. The Division considered any other legis-
lation in this area unnecessary from the standpoint of the purposes of 
rate control and undesirable as a matter of policy; it did not favor 
legislation restraining any business activity unless it caused or threatened 
a significant evil. There did not appear to be any such evil in a borrower 
paying a broker a fee for arranging that funds would be deposited in a 
member bank unaffiliated with the borrower, the broker passing a portion 
of such fee on to the depositor, or the depositor, receiving such fee 
as additional compensation for the use of his funds by the member bank. 
The Division recommended limiting the response to Senator Sparkman and 
Congressman Hanna to an expression of such view. A draft letter in those 
terms was attached. 
In a memorandum dated October 1, 1969, Mr. Solomon stated that 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation believed that the arrangements 

3044 
10/3/69 
-8-
involved in brokered deposits should be held to violate Regulation Q. 
The only real purpose was to escape the Regulation Q interest rate 
ceilings . If a bank contended that it charged the same rate on "linked" 
loans as on other loans, it was disregarding the significant fact that 
the linked loan probably involved higher risks (and therefore normally 
a higher rate) than the bank's other loans. 
Discussion at today's meeting included comments by Mr. Solomon 
to supplement his memorandum. 
Members of the Board expressed views against adopting the position 
suggested by the Legal Division. One member observed that the use of 
brokered deposits seemed to be growing, and if the Board did not have 
power to control the practice, it should be asking for remedial legisla-
tion. A comment was made that the position advocated by the Legal Division 
would vitiate the effort being made by the FDIC to reach the problem 
through the advertising provision of the interest rate regulations. There 
was agreement with a suggestion that it would be appropriate to withhold 
a request for legislation until there had been an opportunity to see what 
could be accomplished through enforcement of the new provision regarding 
advertising. 
At the conclusion of the discussion there was unanimous agreement 
that the question whether brokered deposits involve violation of Regu-
lation Q be tabled, and that the letters to Senator Sparkman and Congressman 
Hanna be transmitted after revision to reflect elements of today's discussion, 

3045 
10/3/69 
-9-
Copies of the letters in the form in which they were subsequently 
transmitted are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Molony, and 
Hexter withdrew from the meeting at this point. 
Memorial to Senator Owen. Chairman Martin reported on his 
communications with former Senator Monroney of Oklahoma concerning 
the question of Board participation in the commemoration of the role 
played by the late Senator Robert Latham Owen in the establishment of 
the Federal Reserve System. Senator Monroney and Mr. W. W. Keeler, 
Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation, had suggested that the Board 
might want to consider purchasing and donating one or two commemorative 
plaques, one of which might be placed in the Cherokee National Court 
House in Oklahoma and the other at the grave of Senator Owen in Lynchburg, 
Virginia. 
After discussion the Board approved this proposal, with the 
further understanding that a member of the Board might participate in 
the commemorative ceremony that was being planned. 
Foreign travel. Upon recommendation by Governor Sherrill, the 
Board approved travel by Helen B. Junz, Senior Economist, Division of 
International Finance, to Paris, France,in mid-October 1969 in connection 
with a meeting of the OECD Working Group on Short-term Economic Prospects. 

. 3046 
10/3/69 
-10-
Chalrmanship at Boston Bank. Chairman Martin reported to the 
Board the prospective resignation of Mr. Howard W. Johnson as Chairman 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, and there was a preliminary 
discussion of persons who might be considered to replace Mr. Johnson. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
i 
' 
T 

3047 
Item No. 1 
10/3/69 
E 
C H A I R M A N 
13, 1969 
The Honorable John Sparkm&n, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This refers to your letter of May 29, 1969, requesting 
my views as to whether Regulation Q should be amended in view of 
the practices of such organizations as Seaboard Planning Corpora-
tion (formerly B. C. Morton Organization) by which a depositor in 
a member bank receives a total return on his funds that exceeds 
the rate the bank may lawfully pay and actually does pay. 
Under the practice, as I pointed out in my letter of 
May 14, 19b<>, Seaboard Planning Corporation - a money broker -
arranges for funds to be deposited in a bank, at the maximum per-
missible rate, in order to induce the bank to extend credit to a 
specified borrower. The borrower pays the broker a fee for his 
services anc' a portion of that fee is passed on to the depositor, 
who thereby obtains a yield in excess of the maximum permissible 
rate that the bank may pay on the deposit. 
This practice, sometimes described as "link financing",, 
has been undar consideration by both the Board and the Federal 
deposit Insurance Corporation for some years. In June of this 
year, the Board joined with the FDIC and the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board in implementing the authority granted by the Congress 
in the Act of September 21, 1968 (P. L. 90-505) to prescribe rules 
governing the "advertising of interest on deposits". This was 
accomplished by adding a new section to the interest rate regula-
tions, effective August 1. Included is a provision under which, 
so far as member banks are concerned, no person "shall advertise 
a percentage yield on any deposit it solicits for a member bank 
that is not authorized to be paid and advertised by such bank". 
(Regulation Q, § 217.6(g).) 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
G F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F F I C E O F T H 
October 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
-2-
This provision reflects the Board's judgment that the 
public might be confused by a money broker advertising that "we 
have and are offering a limited supply of insured bank savings 
certificates of deposit discounted to yield up to 7% a year when 
held to maturity in units of $5,000", when the maximum rate an 
insured bank may pay on such a deposit is 5 per cent. 
We have observed that such advertisements continue to 
appear despite the change in the rules governing advertising of 
interest on insured bank deposits. In view of this and of your 
concern with the practice of banks obtaining deposits through 
brokers, our staff has reexamined the entire matter, which has 
regrettably delayed our response to your inquiry. Based upon this 
examination, tne Board believes that at this time we should direct 
our efforts in this area toward assuring compliance with the regu-
latory provision governing advertising of interest on deposits. 
If we are unsuccessful in this effort, we will consider further 
whether other measures should be taken to control member bank 
participation in link financing arrangements. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Win. McC. Martin, Jr. 

30 
Item No. 2 
10/3/69 
E 
C H A I R M A N 
October 16, 1969 
The Honorable Richard T. Hanna, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515 
Dear Mr. Hanna: 
This refers to your letter of August 6, 1969, requesting 
my views as to whether the rules governing interest on deposits 
should be irodified in view of the practices of such organizations 
as Nationwide Securities Corporation by which a depositor in a 
member bank receives a total return on his funds that exceeds the 
rate the bank may lawfully pay and actually does pay. 
Under the practice, as you'point out in your letter. 
Nationwide Securities Corporation - a money broker - arranges for 
funds to be deposited in a bank, at the maximum permissible rate, 
in order to induce the bank to extend credit to a specified bor-
rower. The borrower pays the broker a fee for his services and 
a portion o£ that fee is passed on to the depositor, who thereby 
obtains a yield in excess of the maximum permissible rate that 
the bank may pay on the deposit. 
This practice, sometimes described as "link financing", 
has been under consideration by both the Board and the Federal 
Deposit Insvirance Corporation for some years. In June of this 
year, the Board joined with the FDIC and the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board :.n implementing the authority granted by the Congress 
in the Act of September 21, 1968 (P. L. 90-505) to prescribe rules 
governing the. "advertising of interest on deposits". This was 
accomplished by adding a new section to the interest race regula-
tions, effective August 1. Included is a provision under which, 
so far as member banks are concerned, no person "shall advertise 
a percentage yield on any deposit it solicits for a member bank 
that is not authorized to be paid and advertised by such bank". 
(Regulation Q, § 217.6(g).) 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• !=• TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N . O. C . 
2 0 5 5 
OFFICE OF T 

The Honorable Richard T. Hanna -2-
3950 
This provision reflects the Board's judgment that the 
public might be confused by a money broker advertising that "we are 
offering a limited supply of FDIC member bank savings certificates 
of deposit discounted to yield up to 7% per annum", in specified 
amounts less than $100,000, when the maximum rate an insured bank 
may pay on such a deposit is 5 per cent. 
We have observed that such advertisements continue to 
appear despite the change in the rules governing advertising of 
interest on insured bank deposits. In view of this and of your 
apparent concern with the practice of banks obtaining deposits 
through brokers, our staff has reexamined the entire matter, which 
has regrettably delayed our response to your inquiry. Based upon 
this examination, the Board believes that at this time we should 
direct our efforts in this area toward assuring compliance with 
the regulatory provision governing advertising of interest on 
deposits. If we are unsuccessful in this effort, we vtJ.11 consider 
further whether other measures should be taken to control member 
bank participation in link financing arrangements. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
