MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 16, 1968 

J 391 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 16, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard and Mrs. Semia of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Mr. Goodfellow of the Division of Examinations 
Chase Manhattan. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
• i 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, granting 

1392 
4/16/68 
-8-
permission for the corporation's subsidiary, Banco Mercantil y Agricola, 
Caracas, Venezuela, to acquire shares of a proposed mortgage bank to be 
formed in Venezuela. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
Proposed guidelines for monetary policy. In a letter of March 18, 
1968, the Executive Director of the Joint Economic Committee, on behalf 
of Congressman Henry Reuss, requested the Board's comments on proposed 
guidelines for monetary policy that had been included in the supplementary 
views of Mr. Reuss contained in the Committee's report on the 1968 
Economic Report of the President. Under the proposed guidelines the 
Federal Reserve System, through open market operations, reserve require-
ments, and discount policy, would with certain qualifications endeavor 
to accommodate a growing full employment gross national product by 
expanding the money supply (narrowly defined to include commercial bank 
demand deposits and currency outside banks) by 3 to 5 per cent yearly. 
A draft of reply to Congressman Reuss had been submitted with 
a memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics, dated April 8, 
1968. In addition, in a memorandum dated April 15, Messrs. Brill and 
Gramley noted that Mr. Cardon had reported rather widespread Congressional 
interest in a proposal to authorize Federal Reserve purchases of housing 
agency issues and that such a proposal might be discussed when hearings 
were held on the extension of Public Law 89-597, relating to interest 
rate ceiling authorities. In the circumstances, if the Board should 
wish to deal with that question more extensively than in the draft letter, 

1393 
4/16/68 
-8-
a substitute had been prepared. Also, an alternative draft of reply 
to Congressman Reuss had been submitted by Governor Maisel. 
• In presenting his views on the matter, Governor Maisel pointed 
out that one question involved in deciding what type of response to 
the inquiry would be appropriate had to do with the respective responsi-
bilities of the Joint Economic Committee and the Federal Reserve. The 
question was whether the Federal Reserve was obliged to enter into a 
dialogue with the Committee and, if so, at what level. As to the draft 
of reply that had been submitted by the staff, he felt that it was not 
sufficiently responsive in certain respects and that it set up several 
"straw men" he did not read into the inquiry. His alternative draft 
had been prepared hastily and he did not regard it as a finished product. 
However, he believed it suggested the approach that a satisfactory reply 
could take. 
There followed a general discussion of the alternative approaches 
during which several members of the Board expressed then^elves as being 
quite well satisfied with the draft submitted by the staff. There were, 
however, some suggestions for modifications. The question of urgency in 
transmitting a reply was raised, and in the light of information supplied 
by Mr. Cardon it was judged advisable to send a reply without further 
delay. 
Several Board members also indicated that they would prefer not 
to include in the reply the more elaborate treatment of the issue relating 
to the purchase of housing agency obligations. 

1394 
i .. • 
4/16/68 
-4-
In the circumstances, Governor Robertson suggested that the 
Board's reply consist of a relatively brief letter to Congressman Reuss 
over the signature of Chairman Martin, with which would be transmitted, 
in the form of a staff memorandum, the material contained in the letter 
drafted by the staff. There could also be enclosed certain other 
materials that might be helpful such as Governor Maisel's recent speech 
on the relationship between money and income and the recent article on 
the same subject prepared by the staff of the New York Reserve Bank. 
Questions were raised regarding the possibility of refining 
V 
» 
-
the staff draft to the point that it could be agreed upon as a reply by 
the Board. However, comments indicated that that might be difficult, 
at least within a limited time period. 
Accordingly, the approach suggested by Governor Robertson was 
.accepted. Attached as Item No. 2 is a copy of the letter sent to 
Congressman Reuss over Chairman Martin's signature. A copy of the 
staff memorandum referred to in the letter has been placed in the Board's 
files. 
Several members of the staff withdrew at this point. 
Officer salaries at Philadelphia. The Board approved unanimously 
a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia (copy attached as 
.Item No. 3) approving the payment of salary to Jack P. Besse as Assistant 
Vice President and to Miliary H. Holloway as Assistant Counsel at the 
respective annual rates fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 

1385 
4/16/68 
-5-
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis whether Mr. Ralph M. 
Sloan, Jr., President, Terminal Van and Storage Company, Little Rock, 
Arkansas, would accept appointment if tendered as a director of the 
Little Rock Branch for the unexpired portion of the term ending December 31 
1970, to succeed Mr. Reeves Ritchie, who had resigned. It was understood 
that if it were found that Mr. Sloan would accept, the appointment would 
be made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascertained that 
he would accept, an appointment telegram was sent 
to Mr. Sloan on April 17, 1968. 
Annex building. In a memorandum dated April 15, 1968, Mr. Shepards 
recommended that the Board approve an expenditure, estimated at $165,000, 
for the installation of a new telephone duct and cable under C Street 
between 20th and 21st Streets in preparation for the construction of the 
new annex building. 
The recommendation was approved unanimously, w}.th the understanding 
that the action included approval of any budget overexpenditure that 
might result. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Discount rate. In a telegram dated April 11, 1968, the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had requested approval of the establishment 
of a rate of 5-1/4 per cent (an increase from 5 per cent) on advances to 
and discounts for member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal 

4/16/68 
-6-
Reserve Act. At the meeting on April 12 the staff was requested to 
prepare materials exploring questions raised not only by this particular 
proposal but also by procedures such as those followed by some Reserve 
Banks earlier this year in submitting alternative discount rates for 
the Board's consideration. 
In a memorandum dated April 15, Messrs. Brill and Axilrod discussed 
the question of a discount rate increase in the light of current and 
prospective economic and money market conditions. Their conclusion was 
that on balance such an increase would be inadvisable at this particular 
time. 
In another memorandum dated April 15, Messrs. Hackley and 
Holland discussed questions raised by (1) the establishment by a Reserve 
Bank of alternative rates, that is, a rate preferred by the Bank or, 
if that was not acceptable to the Board of Governors, a different rate; 
(2) the establishment of rates more frequently than every 14 days; (3) 
the extent to which a Reserve Bank, in establishing rates, was entitled 
% 
to consider foreign or international financial factors; (4) the procedures 
of the Board in reviewing and determining rates; and (5) publication 
of Board actions approving or disapproving proposed rates and the reasons 
therefor. 
Chairman Martin suggested that there be only a general discussion 
today, except on the position to be taken with respect to the Minneapolis 
Bank's proposed rate increase. 

8 
4/16/68 
-8-
The discussion proceeded accordingly. With respect to the 
Hackley-Holland memorandum, those Board members who commented indicated 
that in their opinion some of the questions dealt with in it had been 
covered sufficiently. As to the remaining issues, one or more members 
felt in each instance that further Board consideration would be desirable, 
and it was understood that such a discussion would be scheduled for a 
subsequent meeting. 
On the Minneapolis proposal, all Board members agreed with the 
view in the Brill-Axilrod memorandum that a discount rate increase at 
this precise time would be inadvisable. However, it was generally 
agreed that the subject would warrant serious consideration at a rela-
tively early date. In the circumstances, the predominant view was 
against taking a form of action that would require publication as a 
Board policy action. In this connection, several members expressed 
the view that the Board should move toward publication of its policy 
actions with a lag of 60 or 90 days. 
It was therefore agreed to refrain from taking action at this 
time on the discount rate increase proposed by the Minneapolis Bank, 
and it was understood that the President of the Bank would be advised 
by telephone of the tenor of the Board's thinking on the matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board acceptance 
of the resignation of Sandra A. Freyburger, 
Records Clerk in the Office of the Secretary, 
effective the close of business April 24, 1968. 

1398 
4/16/68 
-8-
On April 16, 1968, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority 
as reflected in the following letters, copies 
of which are attached as indicated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo- 
4 
ration regarding the application of The Maries 
County Bank, Vienna, Missouri, for continuation 
of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to The Vienna Trust Company, Vienna, 
5 
Virginia, approving the establishment of a 
branch (drive-in facility) in the Tyson's 
Corner Center, Fairfax County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
6 
Pennsylvania, approving the establishment 
of a branch in Collingdale and an investment 
in bank premises incident thereto. 

1399 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
4/16/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1968 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of March 11, 1968, the Board of Governors grants con-
sent for your subsidiary, Banco Mercantil y Agricola, Caracas, 
Venezuela, to purchase and hold approximately 10 per cent of 
the shares of Banco Hipotecario del Centro, which is to be 
formed under Venezuelan law, at a cost equivalent to approx-
imately US$223,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will not entail the 
transfer of any funds from the United States by your Corpora 
tion, The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association) or 
Chase International Investment Corporation. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/16/68 
WASHINGTON 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
1 4 C 0 
April 19, 1968 
The Honorable Henry S. Reuss, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
G-133 New Senate Office Building, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Reuss: 
This is in response to your request, transmitted to us 
on March 18 by the executive director of the Joint Economic 
Committee, for comments on the guidelines for monetary policy set 
forth in your supplementary views in the Committee's recent 
report on the Economic Report of the President. We have asked 
our staff to analyze the proposed guidelines, and I am enclosing 
a memorandum they have prepared that discusses the guidelines and 
their implications for monetary policy, together with two articles 
published in the Federal Reserve Bulletin referred to in the memo-
randum. 
Since your proposal raises a number of fundamental issues 
regarding the part the Federal Reserve System plays in economic 
stabilization, you may also be interested in the other materials 
I am enclosing, which include remarks by Governor Maisel on the 
relation between money and income, an article on the same subject 
by a member of the staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
and a copy of a letter to Representative Clawson concerning Federal 
Reserve purchases of Federal Home Loan Bank obligations. 
I have a great deal of sympathy for the feelings that 
must have prompted your remarks about Urdu and Swahili. Part of 
the trouble lies in the lack of exact knowledge on anyone's part 
about how monetary policy affects the economy. And all of us are 
plagued by the fact that the same words--even though spoken in 
English by Americans reasonably practiced in the art of communication-
all too often mean different things to different people. But we 
must keep at our efforts to communicate, and I hope the enclosed 
materials will make some contribution to mutual understanding. 
S i n c e r e l y 
y o u r s , 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Enclosures. 

B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1401 
Item No. 3 
4/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 16, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Karl R. Bopp, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19101 
Dear Mr. Bopp: 
The Board of Governors has approved the payment 
of salaries to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia listed below. The rates are those fixed by 
your Board of Directors, as reported in your letter of 
April 4, 1968. They will become effective for Mr. Besse 
on the date approved by your Board of Directors and for 
Mr. Holloway as soon as he is able to join the staff. 
Annual 
Name 
Title 
Salary 
Jack P. Besse 
Assistant Vice President $18,000 
Hiliary H. Holloway Assistant Counsel 
14,000 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert, P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
4/16/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
^ U R E S ^ 
A D D R E S S 
• F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
April 19, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of April 12, 1968, 
concerning the application of The Maries County Bank, Vienna, 
Missouri, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal 
from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that the last examination of subject in January of 
1968 revealed a moderate volume of criticized loans, and the bank 
was urged to strengthen loan and collection policies. He has 
also stated that there have been no other corrective programs 
urged upon the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been 
fully consummated, and there are no programs that the Acting 
Director would advise be incorporated as conditions of admitting 
the bank to membership in the Corporation as a nonmember of the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B D A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
1 O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
14 
Item No. 1 
4/16/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N D E N C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 19, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Vienna Trust Company, 
Vienna, Virginia. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the establishment of a branch (drive-in facility) by The Vienna 
Trust Company, Vienna, Virginia, in the Tyson's Corner Center at 
the intersection of Leesburg Pike, Dolly Madison Boulevard and 
Interstate 495, Fairfax County, Virginia, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this letter. 
It is understood that Vice President Nosker of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond has held discussions with officials of The 
Vienna Trust Company and its parent holding company regarding the 
strengthening of The Vienna Trust Company's capital position. It 
l s further understood that definite plans to increase the capital 
funds of your bank will be formulated upon completion of a study 
now in progress as to the short and long range equity needs of all 
subsidiaries of your bank's parent holding company. 
Very truly yours, 
CSigned) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1 4 0 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 
19101 
Item No. 6 
4/16/68 
April 16, 1968 
Board of Directors 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Dear Sirs: 
19109 
On behalf of the Board of 
Reserve System, acting under deleaved 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia apnrove 
The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia^ Pe 
office at 720 MacDade Boulevard ,\ol 
Pennsylvania, provided tha^branch 
year from the date of ttftslatter. 
This a 
and factors: 
Cap! 
,as ade 
nagement 
of the Fed 1 
ty, the Fedej 
Jblishment by 
la1 of a branch 
ale/ Delaware County, 
established within one 
5. 
view of the following opinions 
sently is regarded 
bank is regarded as adequate 
elleved the convenience and nee^s of the 
y will be better served if the proposed 
is established. 
is believed the establishment of the pro-
posed branch will not teofl to create an un-
desirable competitive situation (either actual 
or potential). 
It Is believed there are good prospects for 
profitable operations of the proposed branch 
within a reasonable time and the bank's earn-
ings are adequate to sustain the operational 
losses of the proposed branch until it becomes 
profitable. 

PEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
PAGE NO. 
To 
Board of Directors 
4/16/68 
140 
6. 
7. 
Your bank's investment In bank premises after 
the expenditure for the proposed branch vill 
be reasonable. 
Counsel for this Reserve Bank considers that 
establishment of the branch vould be In 9©n-
formity with the provisions of section £08^8 
of Regulation H and section 5155 of the 
vised Statutes. 
8. Establishment of the branch was 4£J>ro 
the Pennsylvania Department of Bank 
date of April 11, 1968. 
In connection vlth the propopM brad 
templates an expenditure of $118,500 i^Bfejk 
your bank's investment in bank prefmiiyw ex 
your bank's capital stock It will beCnecejfear 
proval for this expenditure. 
Under the provisio 
Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 
Philadelphia, on beha 
Reserve System and 
approves an invest: 
phia, Pennsylvania, 
establishment of the a 
view of the following fa 
your bank con4 
emises. Since 
the amount of 
to obtain ap-
the Federal 
erve Bank of 
rs of the Federal 
ority from said Board, 
e Fidelity Bank, Philadel-
connectlon with the 
is approval Is granted in 
ItalizatioViaMke Fidelity Bank, 
Pennsylvania, at present Is 
equate in relation to the 
:ondition of Its assets and 
liabilities and other corpo-
)llltles, Including the volume 
assets and of its marginal and 
_ 
_ ility assets, all considered in 
relation to the strength of the bank's manage-
ment. 
2. Upon completion of the proposed investment, 
the bank's aggregate Investment (direct and in-
direct) In bank premises plus the indebtedness 
of any wholly-owned bank premises subsidiary 
will not exceed 40 per cent of the bank's total 
capital funds (including capital notes and deben-
tures) plus valuation reserves. 
Yours very truly, 
n 
R - l ? 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
