609 
Minutes for _jebruary 17, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
itfith respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Ma isel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
A 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

533 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, February 17, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane l_l 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Miss Ormsby, Special Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
1/ 
2/ 
Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 
Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

534 
2/17/70 
-9-
Testimony by Chairman Burns. A draft had been distributed of 
a statement to be given by Chairman Burns before the Joint Economic 
Committee on February 18, 1970. 
Chairman Burns suggested that detailed comments relating to 
language and style might be transmitted directly to him, leaving questions 
of substance and policy to be discussed at this meeting. 
General agreement with the tone and philosophy of the statement 
was expressed, although Board members offered suggestions for changes 
which, while directed principally to the precise language used at certain 
places in the draft, were in effect substantive. Such comments were 
either accepted or noted for further consideration, and it was understood 
that the statement would be presented in a final form satisfactory to 
the Chairman. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, has been 
Placed in the Board's files.) 
Chairman Burns withdrew from the meeting at this point to continue 
w°rk on the testimony, and Governor Mitchell assumed the Chair. The 
following staff members joined the meeting: 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 

535 
2/17/70 
-9-
Messrs. Noble and Greenspan of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, and Kline and Miss Greene of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Messrs. Ducy, Formuzis, and Lawrence of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Massey of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of Boston on February 9, Cleveland and Chicago on February 11, 
and Atlanta, St. Louis, and Minneapolis on February 12, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
The Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Kansas City, and Dallas 
°n February 12 had established a rate of 7-1/2 per cent, rather than 
7 per cent, on advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations 
other than member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the 
Federal Reserve Act. These rates were approved unanimously, effective 
February 18, 1970, with the understanding that appropriate advice would 
be sent to all Federal Reserve Banks. Other rates at these Banks, which 
Were established without change, also were approved unanimously. 
Application of Bank of America. Unanimous approval was given 
t o a letter to Bank of America, New York, New York, consenting to (1) the 
Purchase of additional shares of Banco Intercontinental Espanol, Madrid, 
sPain, and (2) continued holding of shares of this bank after it increased 
the amount of its outstanding debenture bonds. In the form approved the 

53G 
2/17/70 
-4-
letter had been amended to take cognizance of the fact that the relevant 
ceiling under the guidelines of the foreign credit restraint program was 
being exceeded as of December 31, 1969. A copy of the letter is attached 
• 
as Item No. 1. 
Application of Western Pennsylvania National Bank. A letter to 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, approving 
establishment of a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, was approved, Governor 
Brimmer dissenting. 
In dissenting from this action, Governor Brimmer 
expressed the view that the Board should rely more heavily on Federal 
Reserve analysis, including the views of the Reserve Bank, which had 
expressed doubts regarding both the asset structure and management prac-
tices of applicant bank, and not accept so readily the judgment of the 
Regional Administrator of National Banks. A copy of the letter is attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Application of Marine Midland International Corporation. Unani-
mous approval was given to a letter to Marine Midland International Corpo-
ration, New York, New York, approving its continued holding of shares of 
Marine Midland Overseas Corporation, also of New York, after the latter 
issued and had outstanding four promissory notes having maturities in 
excess of one year. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given to 
a report, for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Federal 
Trust Company, Waterville, Maine, with Silver Street Trust Company, also 

2/17/70 
-5-
of Waterville, which merger was intended to facilitate the acquisition 
°f the existing bank by a holding company. The conclusion stated that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would in itself have no adverse 
competitive effects. 
Application of Tennessee National Bancshares. The Board had, 
in December 1969, given its approval to an application of Tennessee 
National Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, to become a bank hold-
l n8 company. Since that time applicant had amended the proposal to 
reduce the minimum percentage of shares of one proposed subsidiary bank 
that would be acquired, some resistance having been encountered within 
the bank. 
Unanimous approval was given to republishing the proposal in the 
Federal Register for comment and communicating again with the State 
Superintendent of Banks for his views. The intervening period would 
also allow the Atlanta Reserve Bank to gain a better insight into the 
extent of opposition to the proposal and the likely implications of its 
consummation. 
Bank holding company applications. Upon consideration of relevant 
documentation that had been made available to the Board, the following 
aPplications were approved unanimously, with the understanding that orders 
and statements would be prepared for the Board's consideration: 
Application of Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Tropical Bank & Trust Company, Sebring, Florida. 

7 
2/17/70 
-9-
Application of Denver U.S. Bancorporation, Denver, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of Villa National Bank, 
Lakewood, Colorado. 
Application of Dominion Bankshares Corporation, 
Roanoke, Virginia, to acquire shares of Cumberland 
Bank and Trust Company, Grundy, Virginia. 
Officers' checks in repayment of Federal funds transactions 
deposit liabilities. 
In a memorandum dated February 10, 1970, the 
Legal Division recommended, after consultation with the Federal Reserve 
Banks, revocation of a 1928 Board interpretation to the effect that a 
check issued by a member bank in payment of Federal funds borrowed could 
be excluded from its deposit liabilities. This ruling was at variance 
with the requirement in Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, that all 
officers' checks issued by a bank be included in its gross demand deposits. 
Unanimous approval was given to the revocation of the 1928 inter-
pretation and to the issuance of a new interpretation, effective April 2, 
19?0, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 4. 
Provision for emergency withdrawals of time deposits. Governor 
Maisel requested that the staff reexamine the logic of the Board's policy, 
a s incorporated in Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, permit-
ting 
withdrawals of time deposits prior to maturity only in cases of 
demonstrated hardship, as contrasted with the alternative possibility 
aPPlying a monetary penalty to early withdrawals. 
It was noted that member banks were in a sense at a competitive 
disadvantage vis-a-vis other depositary institutions on this matter, since 

539 
2/17/70 
-7-
the other supervisory agencies followed somewhat more liberal policies. 
It was also noted that the choice of an appropriate policy was directly 
dependent on determination of the desired objective and that the Board's 
Policy had been effective in discouraging early withdrawals. 
It was 
Agreed that the staff would prepare and submit a memorandum on this matter. 
Governor Daane, who had been delayed in returning to Washington 
from New York, joined the meeting at this point, as did Mr. Bilby, consul-
tant on discount operations. 
Guidelines for lending to nonmember banks. There had been distributed 
a memorandum from the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated 
February 10, 1970, regarding guidelines for lending to nonmember banks 
under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act in 
certain types of emergency situations. The memorandum contained an amended 
version of the guidelines on this matter recently approved by the Confer-
ence of Presidents; the latter had been proposed to the Board as a replace-
ment for outstanding letter S-2100, dated August 21, 1969, which required 
Board approval of the initial loan in each such case. 
Retention of a part of the original language, in addition to that 
°f the proposed change, in paragraph 1 of the guidelines was suggested, 
although no substantive issues were at question. 
In addition, it was 
suggested that paragraph 3 be amended to make clear that consultation with 
the Board would be expected in all cases, and not merely those where 
another supervisory authority objected to the making of the loan. Paragraph 6 

540 
2/17/70 
-9-
already required that the Board be informed in all cases; the term 
"consult with" was seen as going beyond "inform," although it was still 
short of "obtain the approval of," as required under S-2100. 
It was agreed that the amended guidelines would be referred back 
to the Presidents' Conference and that in the absence of further suggestions 
they would be issued in the form of an S-letter superseding S-2100. 
St. Louis discount window. There had been distributed memoranda 
from the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations dated February 4 and February 2, 1970, respectively, 
regarding the operation of the discount window at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of St. Louis. These were in response to a request from Governor 
Brimmer in light of a report by the Board's examiners that in their opinion 
the St. Louis discount window was being operated in a manner more liberal 
than was consistent with Regulation A, Advances and Discounts by Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
The first memorandum contained a statistical analysis of aggregate 
borrowing data for St. Louis as well as the other eleven districts. 
While the Eighth District did emerge as the most liberal of the twelve 
on the basis of some measures, the memorandum concluded that statistical 
evidence alone did not demonstrate that it was significantly out of line. 
The second memorandum examined recent St. Louis lending experience on a 
u „ 
case-by-case basis and likewise concluded that no serious differences 
in administration vis-a-vis the other districts were apparent. It pointed 
to a relatively high number of seasonal and emergency loans as accounting 

541 
2/17/70 
-9-
for the seemingly high percentage of frequent borrowers and added that 
the base of this percentage--the number of borrowing banks--was among 
the lowest in the System. This memorandum also concluded that monitoring 
practices in existence and being developed were adequate to identify 
and evaluate instances of apparently nonuniform practices among districts. 
The conclusions regarding the St. Louis discount window were 
accepted, and it was understood that efforts would continue to improve 
the staff's monitoring system. 
Dallas computer planning. Governor Brimmer reported that, during 
his recent visit to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, President Coldwell 
had raised with him a computer planning problem. At the time of review 
of the Board and Federal Reserve Bank budgets for 1970, the Board had 
raised some questions about major innovative programs at the Banks. This 
had applied chiefly to the New York Bank, but had been communicated to 
all the Banks through a recent survey. Dallas had a contract on which 
it must decide whether to go ahead very soon. 
Governor Sherrill said that the Dallas plans represented a moderate 
course and that he saw nothing to prevent an early decision, which he 
would seek to facilitate. 
Foreign travel. Governor Sherrill advised that he was approving 
travel for Messrs. Gramley and Hersey to attend an annual meeting of central 
bank economists in Basle, Switzerland, in addition to which Mr. Hersey 

r; \ o 
; 2/17/70 
- 1 0 -
would visit the Bank of England and the German Federal Bank. 
\<: 
The meeting then adjourned. 
IV. 
';. 
V; ' 
- i M l 
, 
a.. 
w(! \ 
• 
- 
; 
) 
1' >•• 
Secretary 
v. 
. -
V . J 

543 
/ i C s S & v . 
'•mmm/ 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
item No. l 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2.0551 
2/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F C I C I A U 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1970 
Sank of America, 
41 Broad Street, 
New York, New York. 
10004 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 2, 1970, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("B of A") to pur-
chase and hold an additional 50,000 shares of Banco Intercontinental 
Espanol ("BIE"), Madrid, Spain, at a cost of approximately $714,286, 
Provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the 
Purchase and holding of shares of BIE in excess of 10 per cent of 
y°ur Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The above consent is granted subject to the same conditions 
Prescribed in the Board's letter of March 8, 1965, which authorized 
your original investment in BIS. 
The Board has noted that as of December 31, 1969, the 
°reign loans and investments of Bank of America National Trust 
Savings Association, San Francisco, and its subsidiaries, exceeded 
he guideline ceiling applicable under the foreign credit restraint 
e tort now in effect. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that those foreign loans and investments will be reduced as 
as possible to a level consistent with the guidelines; that the 
investment now being approved will be made within those guidelines; 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
' '4 i i ? *, 
As also requested in your letter, the Board grants consent to the 
continued holding of shares of BIE by your Corporation if BIE should issue 
have outstanding at any one time debenture bonds up to the Peseta 
equivalent of $86,600,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

I 
544 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20S51 
Item No. 2 
2/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1970 
Western Pennsylvania National Bank, 
Fifth Avenue at Smithfield, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
15230 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Western Pennsylvania National Bank 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section 
and of Regulation M. 
i b ' 
' 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
not as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff9 and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
contract by another party. In view of the unusual character of 
this operation, the foregoing permission is granted subject t;o 
continuing special observation and review by the Board and after 
due notice may be withdrawn or modified. The foregoing permission 
l s also granted on the condition that adequate information covering 
the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office and 
V 7ill be available to the Board'and its accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the 
branch's methods of operation, including changes in any contract 
under which services are supplied to the branch. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before March 1, 1971, all rights granted hereby 
&hall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 

Western Pennsylvania National Bank. -2-
545 
Please advise the Board of Governors} through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Nassau. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from 
any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and 
Regulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D (but see Sec-
tion 213.7 of Regulation M). The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long been and 
continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to dis-
courage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve 
a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or inter-
national transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
funds provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets 
for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign invest-
ments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given with 
the understanding tzhat in the conduct of the branch's operations 
maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Accordingly, it is understood that any investment 
required will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due-
consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

Of Cow.* • 
— 
^ 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
2/17/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
February 17, 1970 
Marine Midland International Corporation, 
250 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
In the Board?s letter of March 25, 1969, consent was granted 
for Marine Midland International Corporation ("MMIC"), New York, New 
York, to continue to hold the shares of Marine Midland Overseas Corpo-
ration ("MMOC"), New York, New York, after that Corporation acquires 
approximately 38.5 per cent of the outstanding First Issue capital 
stock of Banque de Salonique, S.A., Istanbul, Turkey, at a cost of 
approximately $640,000, provided such shares are acquired within one 
year from the date of that letter. 
It is understood that according to the stock purchase agree-
ment MMOC will pay $160,000 in cash and issue five promissory notes 
totaling $480,000, having maturities of 12, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months. 
In this connection, pursuant to the provisions of Sec-
tion 211„4 of Regulation K, the Board of Governors grants its consent 
tor MMj.c to continue to hold the shares of MMOC after MMOC issues 
four promissory notes totaling $384,000, with maturities in excess 
°f one year. 
I n -its letter of April 23, 1968, granting consent for MMIC 
t 0 form MMOC, the Board stated that MMOC might make foreign credits 
and investments outside the foreign credit restraint program ceiling 
Provided such credits and investments were financed from funds 
Raised abroad with a minimum maturity of three years. The proposed 
investment would be financed by borrowing abroad additional to that 
Represented by MMOC's convertible debenture issue of May 1968, 
auct a part of that borrowing will be at terms of less than three 
years. Accordingly, the investment represented by the first two 
notes in the series, totaling $192,000, should be reported under 
h e combined foreign credit restraint program ceiling of Marine 

Marine Midland 
International Corporation 
- 2 -
Midland Trust Company.of Western New York and Marine Midland Inter-
national Corporation. The foregoing consent is given with the 
understanding that such investment will be made within the guide-
lines of the foreign credit restraint effort as they apply to your 
Corporation and Marine Midland Trust Company of Western New York, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

548 
Item No. 4 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
2/17/70 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEH 
PART 204--RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
[Reg. D] 
Officers* Checks as Deposits 
Effective April 2, 1970, § 204.113 is added to read as follows: 
§ 204.113 Officers1 checks in repayment of "Federal funds'' transactions 
included as "ftross demand deposits". 
(a) The Board has reviewed its ruling (1923 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin page 656) that a check Issued by a member bank in repayment 
of a Federal funds transaction may be excluded from its deposit liabilities. 
(b) Such ruling is in effect an exemption from the provisions of 
5 204.1(g) of Regulation D, which requires all officers' checks issued by 
a member bank to be included in its gross demand deposits for reserve 
purposes. Nonetheless, a member bank is permitted by 0 204.2(b) of 
Regulation D to deduct all "cash items in process of collection" from 
3-ts gross demand deposits, in computing its reserve requirements. Permitting 
the issuing bank to exclude from its deposit liabilities a check issued by 
*-t and also permitting the receiving bank to deduct the item from its 
deposit liabilities is inconsistent with the basis of the provision for 
Cash-item deductions - to avoid situations in which two member banks 
Maintain reserves against the same funds. 

549 
-2-
(c) The Board considers that it should bring its regulations 
and interpretations in this area into harmony. Withdrawal of the 1928 
ruling would eliminate the incongruity between such ruling and the 
» 
Provisions of § 204,1(g). Most Federal funds transactions are presently 
handled through entries on the books of the Reserve Banks (and do not 
involve the issuance of a check), and all such transactions can be 
handled in that manner. Consequently, withdrawal of the 1928 ruling 
Would have little impact. Also, adopting such course of action seems 
clearly preferable to modifying 5 204.2(b) to prohibit the deduction 
irom gross demand deposits of a certain class of cash items - namely, 
those received in repayment of a Federal funds transaction, 
(d) Accordingly, the 1928 ruling is withdrawn. Hereafter, 
a s provided in 5 204.1(g) of Regulation D, "The term 'gross demand 
^Posits' means the sum of all demand deposits, including . . . al1 
°utstanding certified and officers' checks". 
(Emphasis added.) 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 461 and 465.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, February ]7, 1970, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
[SEAL] 
