MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 3, 1972 

590 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 3, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 1J 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial review. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
There followed comments by Mr. Rippey on pertinent legislative 
matters, after which members of the staff who had been present specifically 
for the staff review withdrew from the room and the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

531 
3/3/72 
-4-
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel 
and Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the several Divisions 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller of the Currency a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed merger of Carolina Bank of Commerce, Eden, North 
Carolina, into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Although there is little competition presently existing between 
Carolina Bank of Commerce, Eden, and North Carolina National Bank, 
Charlotte, there is potential for the development of increased compe-
tition between them through de novo branching. The proposed merger 
would expand the operations of the State's second largest bank and 
would continue the concentration of banking resources in the State's 
larger institutions. The overall competitive effects of the proposal 
would be adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First National 
City Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of Citibank 
(Western), National Association, Silver Creek, New York, the successor 
by merger to The Silver Creek National Bank, and authorized the issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached 
as Item No. 1. (At its meeting on February 22, 1972, the Board granted 
the request of First National City Corporation for confidential treatment 
of certain exhibits to the application, as recommended in a memorandum 
from the Legal Division dated February 15, 1972.) 

592 
3/3/72 
-4-
The Board approved unanimously the application of American 
Bancorporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Dime Bank, 
Marietta, Ohio, the successor to The Dime Savings Society of Marietta, 
an existing mutual savings bank, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to the Presidents of 
all Federal Reserve Banks informing them of the Board's determination 
that certain proposed amendments to the collection circulars of the 
Reserve Banks (as described in a memorandum from Mr. Hackley dated 
February 23, 1972) were not inconsistent with Regulation J, Collection 
of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. A copy of the 
letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Bank of Mid-Jersey. In a memorandum dated February 23, 1972, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of The Bank of Mid-Jersey, Bordentown Township, New Jersey, 
to issue capital notes. 
Discussion developed majority support for the staff recommenda-
tion. However, Governor Robertson believed that the percentage of debt 
applicant would incur as a result of the proposed note issue would be 
too high in relation to applicant's capital base. 

593 
3/3/72 
-4-
The Board thereupon approved the application, Governor Robertson 
dissenting. A copy of the letter sent to The Bank of Mid-Jersey is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
Union County Trust Company. The Board approved unanimously the 
application of Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey, to 
merge Keansburg-Middletown National Bank, Middletown, New Jersey, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
(The title 
of the resulting bank would be United Counties Trust Company.) A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
First American National Corporation. The Board approved unan-
imously the applications of First American National Corporation, Nashville, 
Tennessee, to acquire shares of Farmers Exchange Bank, Union City, 
Tennessee, and Union-Peoples Bank, Clinton, Tennessee, and authorized the 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting that decision. Copies of 
the documents are attached under Item No. 6. 
Enrolled bills. The Office of Management and Budget had requested 
the Board's views on the following enrolled bills: S. 748, to authorize 
payment and appropriation of the second and third installments of the 
United States contributions to the Fund for Special Operations of the 
Inter-American Development Bank; S. 749, to authorize United States 
contributions to the Special Funds of the Asian Development Bank; and 
S. 2010, to provide for increased participation by the United States in 
the International Development Association. 

3/3/72 
-5-
The Legal Division recommended that the Board report favorably on 
the bills, and proposed language that could be used in letters to the 
Office of Management and Budget. 
The Board approved unanimously the staff recommendation, and it 
was understood that appropriate letters would be sent to the Office of 
Management and Budget. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 7-9. 
Discount rate. On March 2, 1972, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City had established, subject to review and deter-
mination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 4 per cent (a decrease from 
4-1/2 per cent) on discounts for an advances to member banks under 
sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, together with appropriately 
corresponding subsidiary rates on advances under other sections of the 
Act. 
It was agreed that consideration of this matter would be deferred 
until next week when more Board members could be present. 
Other discount rates. The Board approved unanimously actions taken 
by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on March 2, 1972, establishing without change the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to the respective Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

595 
Item No. 1 
3/3/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to The Silver Creek National 
Bank, Silver Creek, New York ("Bank"). 
The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
except as a means of acquiring the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organization 
Is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls two banks with total deposits of 13.4 
billion, representing 14.1 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
banks in New York, and is the State's second largest banking organization. 
(Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted 
to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions through December 31, 
1971.) Consummation of the proposal would not change Applicant's present 
ranking nor significantly increase its share of State deposits. 

596 
-2-
Bank (deposits of $11.2 million) is the smallest of five 
banks in the Dunkirk-Fredonia banking market, controlling 7.3 per 
cent"^ of the deposits in that market. The nearest office of Appli-
cant's subsidiary bank is 420 miles from Bank and there is no signi-
ficant existing competition between this or any other of Applicant's 
subsidiaries. Bank is the only bank available for acquisition in its 
market; Applicant's only alternative for entering Bank's market would 
be through establishing a de novo bank. The economic characteristics 
of the Dunkirk-Fredonia banking market make de novo entry very unlikely. 
Consummation of the proposal would foreclose no existing or potential 
competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiary banks and-.Bank are satisfactory and consis-
tent with approval. The banking needs of the communities involved are 
being adequately met at present. However, Applicant proposes to provide, 
through Bank, an alternative source of specialized banking needs. There-
fore, considerations relating to convenience and needs lend some weight 
toward approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
A/ Banking data related to market share are as of June 30, 1970. 

597 
-2-
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- March 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
27 Voting^for'this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel. 

Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/3/72 
AMERICAN BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
American Bancorporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C, 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire up to 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of The Dime Bank, Marietta, Ohio ("Bank"), 
the successor by acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities 
to The Dime Savings Society of Marietta, Marietta, Ohio. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance v;ith 5 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filling comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the smallest multi-bank holding company in Ohio, 
controls three banks with aggregate deposits of $11,4 million, repre-
senting .05 per cent of Ohio's commercial bank deposits. Applicant's 
acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $4.8 million, representing 
.02 per cent of total State deposits, would not change its present rank 
or increase significantly the concentration of banking resources in 
any area. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect 
formations and acquisitions approved through January 31, 1972.) 

589 
-2-
I 
The nearest subsidiary of Applicant and Bank are 68 miles 
apart and two counties separate them. There is no present competi-
tion between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank, and it appears 
that future competition is not likely to develop between them due to 
the distances involved, the location of numerous banking offices of 
other banks in the intervening area, and Ohio's restrictive branching 
!aws. Bank would rank as the smallest of the four commercial banks 
headquartered in Marietta and rank fifteenth among the 17 banks 
operating in its market area. One result of the proposed transaction 
will be to introduce an additional commercial bank to that area 
which could serve to stimulate competition in Marietta and its 
surroundings. The proposed transaction should have no adverse effect 
on competing banks. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant are 
generally satisfactory and prospects for the group appear favorable. 
Prospects for Bank also appear favorable since Applicant proposes 
to supply needed capital and management to it. Banking factors, 
therefore, lend weight toward approval of the application. Although 
major banking needs of the residents of the Marietta-Parkersburg 
area are being met at present, the establishment of Bank will enable 
Applicant to offer a wider range of services to banking customers of 
s predecessor. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 

-2-
600 
of the area, therefore, lend x*eight to approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ March 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
> i 
. 
• . . . - . ' 
. . . . . . 
•, 
, 
' 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel. 

6 0 1 
uSf**?' 
B O A R D n r G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
3/3/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 6, 1972 
The Board has reviewed proposed amendments to the collection 
circulars of the Reserve Banks as recommended by the Subcommittee on 
Commercial Law in three Reports dated December 16, 1971, and by a 
Joint Report of the Subcommittee on Collections and the Subcommittee 
c-n Commercial Law dated December 31, 1971, all of which recommendations 
wore approved by the Conference of First Vice Presidents at its meeting 
on January 25, 1972. 
In the Board's judgment, the proposed amendments to the col-
lection circulars recommended in these Reports are not inconsistent with 
Kegul ation J, While the effective dates of the changes proposed in the 
December 16, 1971 Reports of the Subcommittee on Commercial Law may not 
he important, it would seem desirable that the change proposed in the 
Joint Report of December 31, 1971, eliminating charges for communications 
v/ith respect to the payment, nonpayment, or tracing of cash items, should 
he made effective at all Federal Reserve Banks on the same date, and it 
is suggested that all of the proposed amendments to the circulars be 
made effective on April 1, 1972. 
Very truly yours, 
7 
Tynan Smith 
^ 
Secretary 
1 
I 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

y
z 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No." H w 
• R THE 
3/3/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C, 
20551 
A O D H E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
• 
T O T H E 
D O A R D 
S I P 
March 3, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The Bank of Mid-Jersey 
Borden town Township, New Jersey 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $1,950,000 
in subordinated c a p i t u 1 debentures by The Bank of Mid-Jersey, 
Bordentown Township, New Jersey, in the form submitted to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Approval is granted with 
the understanding that the sale of these capital debentures will 
be consummated within six-months from the date of this letter. 
It is further understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the 
provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish 
the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting 
forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to the 
claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
» 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

603 
Item No. 5 
3/3/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNION COUNTY TRUST COMPANY 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
Union County Trust Company, Elizabeth, New Jersey 
("Union Trust"), a member State bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
has applied for the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of that bank with Keansburg-
Middletown National Bank, Middletown, New Jersey ("Keansburg Bank"), 
under the charter of Union Trust and title of United Counties Trust 
Company. As an incident to the merger, the present offices of Keansburg 
Bank would become branches of the resulting bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has re-
quested reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the 
Comptroller of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
and reports received in the light of the factors set forth in the Act, 
and finds that: 
1/ 
Union Trust ($213 million deposits), 
located in the Second 
Banking District of New Jersey, serves primarily the Greater Newark 
Market. It controls 5 per cent of the Market's deposits and is the 
sixth largest of 45 banks located there. Union Trust operates 18 branch 
offices, 16 in Union County, and one branch each in Somerset and Monmouth 
Counties. 
1/ Total deposit data are as of June 30, 1971. Data regarding market 
deposit rank and market shares are as of June 30, 1970. 

604 
-2-
Keansburg Bank ($67 million deposits) serves primarily the 
northern section of Monmouth County that includes the Township of 
Middletown wherein its main office and four of its five branches are 
located, and the town of Keansburg where the remaining branch is located. 
The home office protection feature of State law which prohibits de novo 
branching into Middletown will not be removed if the present proposal 
is consummated. 
The relevant market within which the competitive effects of 
the merger are to be assessed is the Asbury Park Market, which consists 
of all of Monmouth County with the exception of the communities of 
Millstone, Roosevelt, Upper Freehold and Allentown (all located in the 
western portion of Monmouth County) and which Market includes the 
economically significant seashore communities located in a 25-mile 
sector of the eastern portion of Monmouth County. There are 12 banks 
2/ 
operating 92 offices in the Asbury Park Market, 
the four largest of 
which hold 78.8 per cent of total deposits. Keansburg Bank ranks fifth 
with 6.7 per cent of such deposits. Union Trust's branch office in 
Monmouth County is located in Eatontown, which is within the Asbury Park 
Market. However, Union Trust's Eatontown branch office holds only a 
•negligible percentage of the market's depositsi Consummation of the proposed 
transaction would not significantly increase the concentration of banking 
deposits in any area. 
2/ Office data are as of December 29, 1971. 

605 
-2-
Union Trust's Eatontown branch is the closest office to 
a Keansburg Bank office. They are located five miles apart. However, 
the service areas of the two branch offices do not overlap, and there 
is no significant present competition between the two banking offices 
or any other offices of each bank. Whereas there is some likelihood 
that consummation of the proposal may eliminate some degree of potential 
competition between Applicant and Keansburg Bank, it appears that the 
merger will stimulate competition by increasing Keansburg Bank's ability 
to compete in the Asbury Park Market with the four larger banks and with 
the two smaller local banks that have recently become affiliated with 
two First Banking District holding companies, each of which holds approxi-
mately $1 billion in deposits. At the present time Keansburg Bank holds 
less than half the deposits of the fourth largest bank in the Asbury 
Park Market. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant are 
satisfactory; the same is true of Keansburg Bank with the exception 
of needed improvement in its capital position which would be resolved 
by consummation of this proposal. Therefore, the prospects for the 
resulting bank would be favorable, and banking factors lend some support 
for approval of the application. Consummation of the proposal would 
improve the present banking services available to customers of Keansburg 
Bank in the rapidly developing Monmouth County, particularly in expanded 
consumer credit, trust and fiduciary services and enlarged lending limits 

606 
-2-
for commercial and industrial loans. Convenience and needs considerations, 
therefore, are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the 
public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
J T 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Eubertson and Governors 
Daane, Brimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns 
and Governors Mitchell and Maisel. 

607 
Item No. 6 
3/3/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AMERICAN NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
First American National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, 
has filed separate applications for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 
per cent or more of the voting shares of (1) Farmers* Exchange Bank, 
Union City, Tennessee ("Farmers Bank"), and (2) Union-Peoples Bank, 
Clinton, Tennessee ("Peoples Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. The trans-
actions shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day 
following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause 
by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ March 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
" 
[SEAL] 
Secretary of the Board 
1/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Daane, 
rimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel. 

608 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDING APPLICATIONS BY 
FIRST AMERICAN NATIONAL CORPORATION, NASHVILLE, TENNESSEE, 
' FOR APPROVAL OF ACQUISITION OF BANKS 
First American National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of (1) Farmers Exchange Bank, Union City, Tennessee ("Farmers 
Bank") and, (2) Union-Peoples Bank, Clinton, Tennessee ("Peoples Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, a registered one bank holding company by virtue 
of its ownership of First American National Bank of Nashville, Nashville, 
Tennessee ($631.2 million in deposits), representing 8.1 per cent of 
total commercial bank deposits in the State, is the third largest banking 
organization in Tennessee. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1971, 
and reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
January 31, 1972.) Acquisition of Peoples Bank (deposits of $28.8 million) 
and Farmers Bank (deposits of $13.6 million) would increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State by approximately .6 percentage points 
and its present ranking would remain unchanged. Consummation of the 
proposed transactions would have no significant effect upon concentration 
of banking resources in the State. 

609 
-2-
Peoples Bank is the ninth largest of twelve banks in the 
Knoxville banking market controlling 3.8 per cent of commercial bank 
deposits in that market. Farmers Bank is the second largest of ten 
banks in the Union City banking market controlling 17.2 per cent of 
commercial bank deposits in that market. Applicant's only banking sub-
sidiary is located in Nashville, approximately 160 miles west of Peoples 
Bank and 155 miles southeast of Farmers Bank. No competition exists 
between Peoples Bank and Farmers Bank and between either of these 
banks and Applicant's present banking subsidiary. Thus, consummation 
of the proposed acquisitions would have no adverse effects on existing 
competition. Furthermore, in view of the distances separating these 
banks, the presence of numerous intervening banks, and the State's 
restrictive branching law, it appears unlikely that any competition 
would develop in the future. 
The present financial and managerial resources and prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiary bank and both Peoples and Farmers banks 
a r e reSarded as satisfactory and consistent vith approval. Although 
there is no evidence that significant banking needs of the communities 
involved are going unserved, consummation of the proposed acquisitions 
"ill enable both Peoples and Farmers banks to draw upon the added 
financial, managerial and technical resources of Applicant in order 
to expand existing services and initiate new services to meet the future 
needs of their respective communities. Convenience and needs considerations 

3 r e therefore consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that the 
applications should be approved. 
M*rch 3, 1972. 

611 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 7 
3/3/72 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
^ . W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
' ^ L R & t ' ' ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1972 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and 3udget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of March 2, 
1 1 _ J 1 ! 1 1 O "7/. O 
,,rT/-« mi 
1972, for the Board's views on enrolled bill S. 748, "To authorize 
Payment and appropriation of the second and third installments of 
the United States contributions to the Fund for Special Operations 
of the Inter-American Development Bank." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
! 

B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
3/3/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1972 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C., 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of March 2, 
1972, for the Board's views on enrolled bill S. 749, "To authorize 
United States contributions to the Special Funds of the Asian 
development Bank." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

sapf; 
^LRtS^' 
b o a r d d f g o v e r n o r s 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
^ . W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 9 
3/3/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 3, 1972 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
I am writing in response to your request of March 2, 
1972, for the Board's views on enrolled bill S. 2010, "To provide 
for increased participation by the United States in the International 
Development Association." 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
