MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 29, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 29, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Money market review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review, including reports on the Government securities market, bank 
credit developments, and foreign exchange market developments. Copies 
of the statistical materials distributed in connection with the review 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Gramley, Smith, and Norwood withdrew 
from the meeting, as did Mr. Bernard, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

* * 
/M) 
8/29/69 
-2-
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Other appropriate staff members 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on August 25 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 
and Dallas on August 28, 1969, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Marine Midland National Bank 
of Southeastern New York, Poughkeepsie, New York, and Marine Midland Trust 
Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New York, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read 
as follows: 
Marine Midland National Bank of Southeastern New 
York, Poughkeepsie, New York, and Marine Midland Trust 
Company of Rockland County, Nyack, New York, are both 
subsidiaries of Marine Midland Banks, Inc., Buffalo, a 
registered bank holding company, and their proposed 
merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency of reports on the competitive factors involved in the 
following proposed transactions, the conclusion in each case stating that 
the proposal would have no adverse competitive effects: 
Merger of Washington Trust Company of Washington, N.J., 
Washington, New Jersey, into National Newark & Essex 
Bank, Newark, New Jersey; 

a j / a * J_ 
8/29/69 
-3-
Merger of The Merchants Bank of Topeka, National 
Association, Topeka, Kansas, with The Merchants 
National Bank of Topeka; 
Merger of Commercial Bank, National Association, 
Muskogee, Oklahoma, with Commercial National Bank & 
Trust Company, also of Muskogee. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of reports on the competitive factors 
involved in the following proposed transactions, the conclusion in 
each case stating that the proposal would have no adverse competitive 
effects: 
Purchase of assets and assumption of liability 
to pay deposits made in The Bank of American 
Samoa, Pago Pago, American Samoa, by Bank of 
Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii; 
Merger of The Northwestern Bank, North Wilkes-
boro, North Carolina, and Lenoir Industrial Bank, 
Inc., Lenoir, North Carolina. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Bank of North 
Freedom, North Freedom, Wisconsin, and The State Bank of Lime Ridge, 
Lime Ridge, Wisconsin, by The Reedsburg Bank, Reedsburg, Wisconsin, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Since there is little competition among proponents, 
the proposed acquisition of Bank of North Freedom and The 
State Bank of Lime Ridge by The Reedsburg Bank would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 

8/29/69 
-4-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Bank of Mt. Eaton, Mt. Eaton, Ohio, into First National Bank 
of Orrville-Dalton, Orrville, Ohio, was approved unanimously for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
As consummation of the merger of Bank of Mt. Eaton, 
Mt. Eaton, Ohio, into First National Bank of Orrville-
Dalton, Orrville, Ohio, would eliminate virtually no 
present or potential competition between the two insti-
tutions, it is concluded that the transaction would have 
no adverse competitive effects. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Peoples State Bank of Maybee, Maybee, Michigan, into The 
First National Bank of Monroe, Monroe, Michigan, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The 
conclusion read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Peoples State Bank of Maybee, 
Maybee, Michigan, into The First National Bank of Monroe, 
Monroe, Michigan, would eliminate some existing competition; 
however, nearby alternatives would remain as well as larger 
banks in nearby Detroit and Toledo. Overall, the effect of 
the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of assets and assumption of deposit liabilities of First 
Valley Bank, San Jose, California, by Barclays Bank of California, San 
Francisco, California, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, The conclusion read as follows: 
There is virtually no competition and only a modest 
potential for competition between Barclays Bank of 
California, San Francisco, and First Valley Bank, 
San Jose, California. The overall effect of the 
proposed transaction on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 

O 
/C / (CO 
8/29/69 
-5-
Mobil Oil credit plan. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Frederic Solomon dated August 28, 1969, relating to a request 
for a determination that Mobil Oil Corporation's regular 30-day credit 
accounts were not subject to the provisions of Regulation Z, Truth in Lending. 
In the memorandum, Mr. Solomon concluded, for reasons set forth, 
that the operation of the accounts fell within the provisions of Regu-
lation Z. Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York that would reflect this view. 
At the beginning of the discussion, Mr. Solomon noted that the 
position recommended was not a new position. He suggested that the proposed 
letter be revised to state that in view of the representations of Mobil 
Oil the question had been reexamined, and on the basis of that reexamination 
the Board again concluded that the transactions would represent extensions 
of consumer credit subject to Regulation Z. 
Members of the staff then responded to a number of questions 
relating to the operation of the credit account plan. Among other points 
it was brought out that Mobil Oil was presently operating under an amended 
plan that clearly was not subject to the provisions of Regulation Z. However, 
the Corporation was desirous of reverting to the original plan (described 
in the memorandum) and that plan was the subject of the request for a deter-
mination. There was agreement that the proposed letter should make clear 
which plan was involved. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York in the form attached as Item No. 1. 

1 
7 .0 4 
8/29/69 
-6-
Study of relations with member banks. On September 20, 1968, 
the Board approved a proposal of the Committee on Bank Supervision and 
Legislation of the Presidents' Conference that a study be made by a 
combined Reserve Bank-Board staff task force on problems of regulatory 
and supervisory relations with member banks. An interim report, dated 
June 2, 1969, with which the Conference of Presidents concurred except 
in one respect at its meeting on June 23, 1969, recommended (1) that 
the System support legislation to eliminate the disparity of treatment 
between State and national banks in interstate operations, to make State 
and local taxes applicable to national banks, and to permit capital 
notes and debentures and undivided profits to be treated as part of 
capital and surplus for purposes of certain statutory limitations; 
(2) the 
development of improved standards with respect to capital adequacy and 
liquidity; (3) further delegations of authority by the Board to the Reserve 
Banks; (4) review of internal procedures with a view to expediting the 
processing of applications; and (5) the development of joint examination 
reports with State banking authorities. 
In a memorandum dated August 26, 1969, Mr. Hackley commented on 
the various proposals. He noted that the point of difference between 
the Presidents' Conference and the task force related to the recommendation 
of the latter that the System support legislation to eliminate certain 
privileges enjoyed by national banks in interstate operations and that, 
if Congress would not accept that approach, the System support legislation 

8/29/69 
-7-
to extend to State insured banks the same privileges as those enjoyed 
by national banks. The Conference of Presidents would reverse this 
approach, preferring legislation that would extend to State banks the 
privileges enjoyed by national banks in interstate operations, with 
legislation eliminating such privileges of national banks as a second 
alternative. 
Mr. Hackley recommended that the Board indicate to the Reserve 
Bank Presidents that it concurred in principle with all of the recommen-
dations made by the Presidents' Conference, except that, as a matter of 
policy, the Board's preference with respect to legislation regarding 
interstate operations of banks would be along the lines suggested by the 
task force, namely, legislation that would make national banks subject 
to the same limitations and restrictions in the conduct of their interstate 
operations as those to which State-chartered insured banks were subject. 
Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter that would reflect this 
view and also comment on measures already taken or being undertaken to 
implement certain other recommendations of the task force. 
Following comments by Mr. Hackley, Governor Mitchell expressed 
the view that it would be inappropriate at this juncture for the Board to 
adopt a position with respect to taxation of national banks. He noted 
that the Board in May 1969 supported a Treasury Department proposal that 
national banks be made subject to State sales and use taxes in the same 
manner as State-chartered banks. However, the House later approved a 

fC .<.„V> 
8/29/69 
-8-
broader bill that would make national banks subject to all State taxes 
to the same extent as State-chartered banks. This bill would be con-
sistent with the task force recommendation, but until such time as the 
Treasury endorsed the expanded legislation or the Board's views were 
sought it did not seem to be in order for the Board to take a position. 
As for elimination of the disparity of treatment between State 
and national banks in interstate operations, Governor Mitchell said it 
seemed to him there were many difficulties that it would be well to avoid. 
After Governor Mitchell outlined some of those problems, Mr. Hackley 
stated that he agreed. The task force, as a matter of tactics, believed 
that it would be easier to extend the privileges of national banks to 
State banks rather than to take away such privileges as the national 
banks presently had. However, it appeared logical to follow the lead 
of the proposed bill and recommend that national banks be placed on the 
same footing as State banks. 
Governor Maisel said it seemed to him that there should be a 
differentiation between State member banks and State nonmember banks. 
State member banks entered the Federal Reserve System voluntarily; they 
were subject to reserve requirements and should be placed on an equal 
basis with national banks. However, State nonmember banks should be 
considered in a different category. 
From further discussion of the points that had been raised, a 
consensus emerged that national banks and State member banks should be 

7** 
* 
Z/29/69 
-9-
treated similarly with respect to their interstate operations, but 
that judgment should be reserved as to how best to accomplish that 
purpose. 
Other recommendations of the task force were then considered 
and suggestions were made as to the terms in which the views of the 
Board might best be conveyed to the Conference of Presidents. 
With the general approach having been agreed upon, unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
Banks in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

•f^ALRE^.* 
BOARD • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/29/69 
A D D R E S S 
D T r ' C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 3, 1969, 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Treiber: 
This refers to your letter of August 28, 1969, and 
Mr. Piderit's letter of August 1, 1969, both recommending that Mobil 
Oil Corporation's regular 30-day credit card plan—as it operated be-
fore recent changes--be determined not to be subject to the provisions 
of Regulation Z. 
You state that because of current uncertainties Mobil has 
altered its credit card plan so as to clearly take it outside the cover-
age of the Regulation, but that Mobil believes its previous plan was 
entitled to exemption from the Regulation, would like to revert to that 
plan if the Board would hold it to be exempt from the Regulation, ana 
requests such an opinion from the Board. Accordingly, this letter deals 
with the plan which was in effect prior to the recent changes. 
It is understood that under the plan bills were sent to credit 
card customers who had made purchases on approximately a monthly billing 
cycle basis. If the customer paid promptly, no service charge of any 
kind was imposed. If the customer did not pay his account in full within 
30 days of his billing date, the unpaid balance was reflected on his next 
billing statement as a "past due balance." At that time, still no service 
charge was imposed. However, if the "past due balance" remained unpaid 
through the end of the second billing cycle, a "service charge" of 1-1/2 
per cent per month was levied on such amounts 30 days or more past due. 
Thereafter, Mobil continued to extend credit for an additional 
period of time, usually 60 to 80 days, before the customer's credit was 
discontinued and action taken to recover the credit card. 
Mobil states that the "service charge" was imposed in order to 
penalize nonpayment and thus to encourage prompt payment. It is tne 
company's position that such charge was imposed for "actual unanticipated 
late payment," [§ 226.4(c)] that the charge was not a "finance charge," and 
that the transactions should be considered to be exempt from the Regulation 

O t > V 1 
Mr. William F. Treiber 
2 
-
Interpretation § 226.401 issued by the Board on April 22, 1969, 
relates to this problem in that it states: 
"When in the ordinary course of business a vendor's 
billings are not paid in full within that stipulated 
period of time, and under such circumstances the vendor 
does not, in fact, regard such accounts in default, but 
continues or will continue to extend credit and imposes 
charges periodically for delaying payment of such accounts 
from time to time until paid, the charge so imposed comes 
within the definitions of a "finance charge" [§ 226.2(q)] 
applicable in each case to the amount of the unpaid balance 
of the account. Under such circumstances the credit so 
extended comes within the "open ena credit" in § 226.2(r), 
the vendor is a creditor as defined in § 226.2(m), and the 
disclosures required for open end credit accounts under 
§ 226.7 shall be made." 
The purpose in issuing interpretation § 226.401 was to provide 
a clear guideline for creditors who operate "30-day accounts" under the 
terms of which full payment is due each month and no finance charge is 
imposed. After a thorough consideration of the question, it was felt that 
the action which the creditor took was the best test of whether, in fact, 
the creditor considered an account to be delinquent. Hence, the position 
was adopted in that interpretation that if a creditor continues or will 
continue to extend credit and impose finance charges, he is, in effect, 
operating an open end account. 
While the instant matter is certainly not a clear cut example of 
typical open end credit, the Board has previously considered other cases 
in which the facts were virtually identical with those in the present case 
and has concluded that the credit in those circumstances was subject to th»; 
Regulation. 
In view of the position urged by Mobil and your recommendation 
with respect to the matters the question has been carefully reexamined. 
However, as a result of this reexamination the Board has again concluded 
that the facts fall within the provisions of Regulation Z, and that, in the 
circumstances, transactions under Mobil's previous plan would represent 
extensions of consumer credit subject to Regulation Z. 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal 
Assistant Secretary 

730 
l.r'Vo • 
\\\m'is 
B O A R D D P 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/29/69 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 29, 19C 9 
Dear Sit: 
The Board of Governors has considered the recommendations 
contained in the Interim Report of the System Task Force to Study 
Problems of Regulatory and Supervisory Relations-with Member Banks, 
dated June 2, 1969, with which the Conference of Presidents con-
curred, except in one respect, at its meeting on June 23, 1969. 
As you know, the recommendations related to (1) the desirability 
of legislation to eliminate the disparity of treatment between 
State and national banks in interstate operations, to make State 
and local taxes applicable to national banks, and to permit capital 
notes and debentures and undivided profits to be treated as part 
of capital and surplus for purposes of certain statutory limitations; 
(2) the development of imoroved standards with respect to capital 
adequacy and liquidity; (3) further delegations of authority by 
the Board to the Reserve Banks; (4) review of internal procedures 
with a view to expediting the processing of applications; and 
(5) the development of joint examination reports with State bank-
ing authorities. 
The Board believes that national banks and State member 
banks should be placed on an equal basis in respect to their inter-
state operations. 
However, the Board reserves judgment as to the 
most desirable legislative approach to accomplish this objective. 
The Board concurs generally in the other recorrmendations 
made by the Task Force Report. 
In this connection, it may be noted 
that the Board has directed that a study be made to consider possible 
revisions of the form for analyzing bank capital (Form ABC), that 

2731 
- 2 -
the Board's staff is presently engaged in a study to determine what 
further functions may appropriately be delegated to the Reserve 
Banks, and that the Board's staff and the staffs of the Reserve 
Banks are continuous 
considering measures ':o expedite the proc-
essing of merger and Dank holding company applications. 
Very truly yours 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
