MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 5, 1970 

3073 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, November 5, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma i s e1 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director 
Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 

sim 
11/5/70 
-2-
Other appropriate members of the staff 
also attended portions of the meeting. 
Connecticut Bank & Trust Company. Drafts of an order and state-
ment reflecting the Board's denial on October 22, 1970, of the application 
of The Connecticut Bank & Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, to merge 
The North Side Bank and Trust Company, Bristol, Connecticut, had been 
distributed. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents are attached under Item No. 1. 
Nassau branches. In a memorandum dated September 23, 1970, the 
Division of International Finance reviewed the activities of existing 
Nassau "shell" branches of member banks and their Edge corporations and 
reached the conclusion that the two principal functions of such a branch 
were to advance funds to the head office to supplement the latter's 
liquidity and to permit the parent bank to make loans to foreigners with-
out conflict with the voluntary foreign credit restraints and without 
adverse effect on the U.S. balance of payments. The Division also 
expressed the view that tax factors alone might be an adequate incentive 
for both shell and non-shell branches to continue to be opened and main-
tained in Nassau even if the principal original reasons for their 
establishment were to disappear. The Division believed that the shells 
were not being used to any significant degree to divert U.S. resident 
deposits from head offices, that low cost factors made Nassau branches 
attractive, and that remoteness from corporate clients would limit the 
growth of Nassau branch activities. 

. 1 0 7 5 
11/5/70 
-3-
As a further basis for Board review of the issues, the staff 
in a memorandum dated October 22, 1970, had discussed the following 
questions: 
1. What should be the Board position on applications 
for foreign branches where the function of the branch would 
be to minimize tax liabilities of the bank or of its customers? 
Should the position be the same for limited-service and full-
service branches? 
2. Should a bank be permitted to open a Nassau branch if 
it is already operating a full-service branch or branches else-
where; conversely, should a bank be permitted to retain a 
Nassau branch after it opens a full-service branch elsewhere? 
3. Should the Board sanction the establishment of shell 
branches in locations other than Nassau? 
Reference was also made to an April 20, 1970, memorandum on Nassau 
branches, which contained a section on measures to be taken during bank 
examinations to ascertain that shell branches in Nassau were being 
operated in accordance with the conditions attached to the Board's 
consent for their establishment. A copy of a letter to the Vice 
Presidents in charge of examinations at Federal Reserve Banks contain-
ing instructions on the reports to be made on Nassau branches in 
conjunction with head office examinations was attached to the October 22, 
1970, memorandum. 
Memoranda relating to requests of the following banks for 
permission to establish branches in Nassau had also been distributed: 
The First National Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida 
Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York 

3 0 7 6 
11/5/70 
-4-
LaSalle National Bank, Chicago, Illinois 
Industrial National Bank, Providence, Rhode Island 
The Huntington National Bank of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio 
First and Merchants National Bank, Richmond, Virginia 
Marine National Exchange Bank of Milwaukee, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin 
In each instance the staff recommendation was favorable. None of the 
banks operated foreign branches, except that Bankers Trust Company had 
full-service branches in London and Paris. 
Preliminary consideration 
had been given to the application of First National Bank of Miami at 
the meeting on August 27, 1970, at which time question had been raised 
as to the proposed operations of the branch in light of the bank's 
statement that the branch would serve as an off-shore depository for 
Latin American customers. A subsequent memorandum dated September 25 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation discussed some of the 
operations contemplated. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that he was apprehensive about the 
Nassau branch situation. It was possible that havens from taxes and 
from supervision were being promoted through the device. He was 
uncertain as to the amount of regulation that was imposed, and several 
questions had occurred to him for which he had not found the answers, 
:,c i.iy <v<. wcul'i 
o 
. c 
: - 
s.u a:... . 
for instance, whether laws of the Bahamas permitted the use of numbered 
accounts. He noted from the staff documents that approximately nine-tenths 

nor? 
11/5/70 
-5-
of the Nassau branch liabilities were inter-bank, but he was unable to 
determine the source of the other accounts. That question, which he 
had raised in connection with the First National of Miami case, had not 
yet been clarified. He wondered what sort of restraint would be placed 
upon the Nassau branches if a requirement that only deposits of other 
banks could be accepted were imposed. 
The ensuing discussion touched upon the types of Nassau branch 
operations and the suitability of examination procedures from the 
standpoint of providing adequate information for supervisory purposes. 
It was suggested that the staff prepare a memorandum on the question 
of adequacy of regulation. 
Chairman Burns then stated that the immediate purpose of today's 
discussion was to determine whether or not to continue granting appli-
cations for Nassau branches, and Governor Brimmer proposed that pending 
and future applications for shell facilities be denied and that the 
licenses already issued be withdrawn. During an exchange of views, 
Governor Mitchell indicated that if the question were put to a vote 
today he probably would abstain, while Governor Daane suggested that 
additional information was being sought and should be weighed before a 
decision was reached. Chairman Burns stated that if the question were 
put today he would vote against the proposal because in his view a 
conclusive case had not been made. 

3078 
11/5/70 
-6-
Governor Brimmer recalled that the shell operations had been 
initiated as a means of supplying funds from the Euro-dollar market to 
head offices and making loans to foreigners outside the guidelines of 
the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. Now operations apparently 
had expanded to a point where the original purposes had been obscured. 
Chairman Burns stated that even so he was not convinced that the addi-
tional operations were necessarily undersirable, and Governors Daane 
and Maisel agreed. 
Governor Mitchell indicated that, while he was not definitely 
opposed to the Nassau branches, he did not fully understand their 
operations. If Nassau branches conducted a straight inter-bank opera-
tion, he would be less concerned than if they attracted foreign customers 
who would otherwise conduct their business with the head office. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that, as indicated in 
the staff memorandum, an issue of first importance was the tax aspect 
of Nassau operations. He went on to express the opinion that if a bank 
needed a branch in Nassau in order to avoid the credit restraint program, 
it should not also have a foreign branch in another location; if it were 
granted permission to establish a foreign branch elsewhere, it should 
not continue in Nassau because the main purpose apparently would be to 
minimize taxes, not only for itself but for others. 
There followed further discussion with respect to the tax 
question during which it was suggested that if the United States 

3 0 7 9 
11/5/70 
-7-
realized an advantage to its foreign trade and other national interests 
as a result of Nassau operations, any tax advantages were defensible. 
Other comments suggested that the tax question was one on which more 
information was needed, and a suggestion was made that the views of 
the Treasury Department might be helpful. 
In a discussion of the types of Nassau operations that should 
be deemed permissible, Governor Robertson noted that the basic purpose 
of licensing foreign branches was to further the foreign commerce of 
the United States and said that he would support only the establishment 
of full-service branches. Governor Brimmer indicated he might be 
satisfied with slightly lesser requirements. 
Chairman Burns then suggested that the staff ascertain from the 
members of the Board the questions that they would like to have explored, 
and that the staff endeavor to provide the best answers that could be 
supplied. 
Question was then raised as to the disposition of the pending 
applications. 
Governor Mitchell was inclined to defer action on the 
First National Bank of Miami and the Bankers Trust applications pending 
development of additional information, Governors Daane, Maisel, and 
Sherrill indicated that they would be willing to approve all of the 
applications, and Governors Robertson and Brimmer proposed to deny them. 
Governor Robertson suggested delegating to the staff authority to 
approve applications for Nassau branches on the grounds that the 

3 0 8 0 
11/5/70 
-8-
majority did not oppose them in principle. However, Chairman Burns 
pointed out that all Board members appeared to have doubts on certain 
aspects of the Nassau operations. Until they were resolved, he felt 
that the subject was one to which the Board should continue to give 
its attention. 
Following further discussion it was agreed that action on the 
pending applications would be deferred for a period of two weeks pend-
ing development by the staff of additional information along the lines 
that had been mentioned. 
Security Pacific Overseas Corp. On October 22, 1970, the Board 
had granted consent to the acquisition by Security Pacific Overseas 
Corp., Los Angeles, California, of shares of Security Pacific Overseas 
Investment Corporation, a newly-formed Delaware corporation. The Board 
also had approved the issuance by the latter of 5-year promissory notes 
to be sold outside the United States. It had been proposed that the 
notes would be guaranteed by the parent bank, Security Pacific National 
Bank, the guarantee to be payable in the United States. In its letter 
to Security Pacific Overseas Corporation the Board had noted that such 
a guarantee would make the notes direct promissory obligations of 
Security Pacific National Bank and that if the bank's obligation under 
the guarantee was payable at any of its offices in the United States 
such notes would be deposits of the bank under Regulation D (Reserves 
of Member Banks) and Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits), unless one 

3081 
11/5/70 
-9-
of the exceptions specified in those regulations was applicable. 
That 
position reflected an interpretation published in the February 1970 
Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
However, a further question had been raised by Security Pacific 
as to the applicability of Regulations D and Q to the offer. In a 
memorandum dated November 4, 1970, the Legal Division recommended main-
taining the position that Regulations D and Q would be applicable to 
notes of the domestic subsidiary guaranteed by the parent bank if either 
the notes or guarantee were payable in the United States. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that the request for clarification 
was urgent because Security Pacific would have to decide today whether 
to attempt to modify its plans or abandon them. Representatives of 
Security Pacific had suggested that the reasoning behind the May 1970 
amendments to the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint guidelines relating 
to flotation of notes with maturities of more than 3 years could be 
applied, but the Legal Division did not subscribe to that view. 
Governor 
Brimmer added that the investment banking group concerned was hopeful 
that, whatever the technical deficiencies, the Board could find some 
means to allow the plan to go forward because in their view withdrawal 
of the plan at this stage would be detrimental to the image of the 
American financial community. 
President Hayes of the New York Reserve 
Bank had indicated that he shared that view. 

nm2 
11/5/70 
-10-
Various ways in which the problem might possibly be met were 
discussed, including a regulatory amendment so that promissory notes 
issued by a member bank to obtain funds abroad for use abroad would 
not be regarded as a deposit, but comments indicated a reluctance on 
the part of the Board to amend a regulation in order to provide a 
special exception. 
It was also suggested that the problem might be met through 
an interpretation of the words "principally as a means of obtaining 
funds to be used in its banking business" (appearing in sections 204.1(f) 
of Regulation D and 217.1(f) of Regulation Q) as not applying to a situa-
tion where funds were raised abroad by a subsidiary and used to make 
long-term investments abroad. However, the risk was noted in starting 
down such a path. 
Following further discussion, it was agreed that the position 
taken in the letter of October 22, 1970, was appropriate, and it was 
understood that Security Pacific would be so advised. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation. In a memorandum 
dated November 4, 1970, Governor Brimmer discussed the proposal of The 
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), New York, New York, to 
invest in three new institutions (a merchant bank, a medium-term lending 
bank, and a management service corporation) to be established in the 
United Kingdom. In each, Chase would hold a one-third interest. Two 
of the investments would be made by the bank's Edge corporation, Chase 

3083 
11/5/70 
-11-
Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, while the third, in the 
merchant bank, would be made by the bank's one-bank holding company, 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation. Requests for permission to acquire 
shares of the medium-term lending bank and the management service 
corporation had been received by the Board and were discussed in a 
memorandum dated November 4, 1970, from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation, which recommended approval. However, the request for 
approval of the investment by the one-bank holding company had been 
made to the Comptroller of the Currency, and the latter had requested 
the Board's views. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that in connection with an earlier 
request by a national bank to the Comptroller for permission to make 
an investment in a foreign bank through its one-bank holding company, 
the Board had expressed serious reservations as to the appropriateness 
of the proposed procedure on the grounds that the Congress had given 
the Board primary supervisory responsibility over the foreign invest-
ments of member banks. The Comptroller had accepted the Board's 
recommendation in that case. In a letter dated September 29, 1970, 
the Office of the Comptroller reiterated its general concurrence with 
the Board's position but expressed the view that in the present instance 
an exception to the general policy was warranted since the proposed 
method of acquisition would be in the best interest of the national 
bank, the bank did not appear to be attempting to circumvent the 

3084 
11/5/70 
-12-
authority of the Board, and the Board would in any event have jurisdic-
tion over one-bank holding companies under legislation now pending. 
For reasons set forth, Governor Brimmer recommended that the Board 
adhere to its earlier position. 
Following discussion, unanimous approval was given to Governor 
Brimmer's recommendation, with the understanding that the Board's 
position would be transmitted to the Comptroller of the Currency and 
that action on the applications relating to the medium-term lending 
bank and the management service corporation would be deferred temporarily. 
A copy of the letter subsequently sent to the Office of the Comptroller 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. Governor Brimmer 
stated that interagency discussion of the U.S. capital restraint pro-
grams for 1971 was scheduled for this afternoon. 
(A background memorandum 
dated November 4, 1970, had been prepared by the Treasury Department, 
which had also submitted, under date of November 3, a memorandum from 
the Department of Commerce spelling out alternatives for liberalization 
of its Foreign Direct Investment Program, viewed in terms of possible 
impact on the balance of payments. Copies of these memoranda had been 
distributed to the members of the Board.) Governor Brimmer noted that 
the alternatives included no change, a modest change with an estimated 
balance of payments cost of $200 million, or a moderate change with an 
estimated cost of $450 million. He sought the Board's views as to the 
position he and Governor Daane should take. 

3085 
11/5/70 
-13-
In this connection, Governor Brimmer referred to his memorandum 
of November 4, 1970, in which he had passed along for the Board's infor-
mation the results to date of two related inquiries that had been 
initiated on U.S. export financing. The first was a survey, using 
techniques worked out to the satisfaction of the Commerce and Treasury 
Departments, on the possible effect in 1970 of the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program on export financing and on exports. 
Reports 
thus far had not turned up cases where the VFCR Program had caused the 
denial of export credit, but the information was not yet adequate to 
draw firm conclusions. The second inquiry, addressed to a sample of 
U.S. banks, was intended to establish the percentage of outstanding 
bank credit subject to VFCR Program ceilings that was for the purpose 
of financing exports. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that work would continue in analyzing 
the results of the survey, with the thought that a press release might 
be issued later, probably at the time a decision was announced by the 
Administration on the capital restraint programs for 1971. 
Governor Daane said that he would be inclined to press for no 
liberalization of the existing programs at this time, since it appeared 
that there would be considerable capital outflow, and consequent loss 
in balance of payments terms, even with no modification. However, in 
terms of negotiating strategy, he recognized that a direct confronta-
tion with other Government agencies might be avoided and pressure from 

3086 
11/5/70 
-14-
the business community minimized if the position taken was not 
completely inflexible. 
Governor Robertson commented that, while he would like to 
abolish the existing controls, other control devices would have to be 
in place to be substituted since there was a danger of diminishing 
confidence in the dollar in view of the current and prospective rate 
of capital outflows. He was not aware that any other programs had yet 
been formulated. 
Governor Mitchell said that philosophically he would like to 
dismantle the existing controls, but that in the circumstances he would 
not tinker with them, and Governor Sherrill agreed that in the present 
situation one could not afford to move the existing programs around. 
Governor Maisel expressed his concern about insulating the balance of 
payments, to the extent possible, from debate concerning domestic policy. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that 
Governors Daane and Brimmer would have in mind in their discussions 
the views that had been expressed. 
First Security Corporation. At the meeting on November 2, 1970, 
preliminary consideration had been given to the application of First 
Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of First 
Security Bank of Springville, Springville, Utah, a proposed new bank. 
(In a memorandum dated October 27, 1970, and related papers, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 

3087 
11/5/70 
-15-
recommended denial of the application, while the recommendations of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco and the Utah Commissioner 
of Financial Institutions were favorable.) Expressions by members of 
the Board had indicated that differences of opinion existed, and it had 
been agreed to defer action until all Board members could be present. 
At the beginning of today's discussion, staff pointed out that 
an application for permission to organize a new independent bank near 
the same site had been denied by the Utah State Commissioner on the 
grounds that it was filed 12 days after that of First Security Corpora-
tion and the need for two new banks in Springville could not be substan-
tiated. Subsequently, a revised order was issued by the State Commissioner 
still denying the application of the independent group but indicating 
that in the event First Security Corporation's application was denied 
by the Federal supervisory authorities the application to organize an 
independent bank would be approved. The staff had not been aware of 
the revised order at the time of the November 2 discussion. 
Comments by members of the Board who had stated tentative 
positions at the November 2 meeting indicated that they were not 
inclined to change their positions, and that Governor Sherrill was 
inclined toward approval of the application. 
It was understood that further analysis of the competitive 
situation would be made by the staff and that the application would 
be restudied in light of the revised order of the State Commissioner. 

3088 
11/5/70 
-16-
Midwest Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated November 2, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of 
Midwest Bancorporation, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire shares 
of Community State Bank, Kansas City, Missouri. The Division recom-
mended denial, mainly on the grounds that no realistic plan had been 
suggested for retiring 
the excessive amount of debt that would be 
incurred in the proposed acquisition. 
Members of the Board expressed the view that efforts to retain 
banking offices in distressed areas should be encouraged, but they 
agreed that consummation of the present proposal would appear to leave 
the holding company in an unsound financial condition. There was some 
discussion of a suggestion that the applicant be afforded an opportunity 
to withdraw or amend its proposal, but the consensus favored denial of 
the present application with an indication in the Board's statement 
that, while the Board was sympathetic to the needs of the community, 
it could not look with favor upon an application embodying a plan for 
financing an acquisition that was unsound. 
The application was then denied by unanimous vote, with the 
understanding that an order and statement along the lines suggested 
would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
First National Bancorporation. A memorandum from the Division 
of Supervision and Regulation dated October 28, 1970, and other pertinent 

aosa 
11/5/70 
-17-
papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, 
Colorado, to acquire shares of Montbello State Bank, also of Denver, 
which would be moved from its present location to a site within a new 
development. The recommendations were favorable. 
Initial remarks indicated that some members of the Board would 
be inclined to approve the application while others favored denial. 
The rather complex circumstances of the case were debated, following 
which action was deferred at the request of Governor Maisel to permit 
further study of the application in light of points brought out during 
the discussion* 
First National City Overseas Investment Corporation. 
Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting consent to the acquisition 
of shares of an investment company to be formed under the laws of Canada. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 3. 
Question was raised whether the views of the central bank of 
Canada should be sought, having in mind the problems that had been 
encountered when a subsidiary of First National City Bank of New York 
acquired The Mercantile Bank of Canada, but it was concluded that such 
an approach was unnecessary in this instance. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

3090 
Item No. 1 
11/5/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D0 C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
CONNECTICUT EANK & TRUST COMPANY ?
 
1 
Hartford, Connecticut, 
1 
for approval of merger with The North 
' 
Side Bank and Trust Company, Bristol, 
' 
Connecticut. 
1 
ORDER DENYING APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL OF 
MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by Connecticut 
Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut, a State-chartered member 
bank of the Federal Reserve System, for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank with The North Side Bank and Trust Company, 
Bristol, Connecticut, under the charter and name of the former institution. 
Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved by the Board, has been 
Published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the record, 
including reports received pursuant to the Act on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger, in the light of .the 
factors set forth in said Act, 

3091 
- 2 -
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is denied. • 
By order of the Board of Governors, November 5, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Unanimous, with all members 
present and voting. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
CONNECTICUT BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, HARTFORD, CONNECTICUT, 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH THE NORTH SIDE BANK AND TRUST COMPANY, 
BRISTOL, CONNECTICUT 
STATEMENT 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, Connecticut 
("CBT") has applied, pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)) 
for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and The North 
Side Bank and Trust Company, Bristol, Connecticut ("North Side Bank"). 
The banks would be merged under the charter and name of CBT, which is a 
member of the Federal Reserve System. As an incident to the merger, 
the three offices of North Side Bank would become offices of CBT. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 
largest banking organizations in Connecticut control 80 per cent of the 
commercial bank deposits in that State.i^ CBT, the largest bank in the 
State with 54 branches and deposits of $830 million, controls 18 per cent 
°f the deposits in the State. Although CBT is a State-wide institution, 
its operations are centered in the Hartford SMSA,in which it is the largest 
competitor with 45 per cent of deposits as of June 30, 1968. The two largest 
y Banking data are as of December 31, 1969., except when stated to the 
contrary. 

30.93 
-2-
banks in the area control 87 per cent of the deposits held by all banks 
located therein, making Hartford one of the most concentrated metropolitan 
areas in the United States. 
North Side Bank, located in the Bristol-Plymouth area 
(populat ion 66,400) is the second largest of three banks located 
therein. Its $12 million in deposits represents 28 per cent of the 
deposits in the area. The largest bank located in Bristol-Plymouth 
controls 53 per cent of that area's deposits and is a subsidiary of a 
holding company that controls $170 million deposits. 
Bristol, where North Side Bank has its offices is located 
15 miles southwest of Hartford. The main offices of the proponents 
are located about 18 miles apart; their closest offices are 13 miles 
apart, and CBT has received approval to establish a new branch in Avon, 
which is 10 miles northeast of Bristol. There is some existing competition 
between the banks, which is primarily due to persons living in Bristol-
Plymouth who commute to the Hartford area. For example, excluding loans 
which are above the lending limit of North Side Bank, CBT derives commercial 
and industrial loans from the Bristol-Plymouth area in an amount equal to 
per cent of such loans made by the smaller bank. Continuing industrial 
and residential development, together with the completion of new and 
modern highways between Hartford and Bristol-Plymouth, are expected to 
fully integrate the two areas shortly. 
The Board is of the view that, except under unusual circumstances, 
large banking organizations in highly concsntrated markets should only 

-3-
3 0 . 9 4 
be permitted to expand in their own markets de novo* Additionally, the 
Board applies the same principle in those adjacent markets which appear 
to be in the process of being integrated into such a concentrated market; 
It is only in this manner that the undesirable effects of further 
concentration can be avoided, and the possibilities for deconcentration 
of such areas can be maintained. 
The Board has considered that Connecticut law presently prohibits 
the establishment of de novo offices in Bristol because it is the 
location of the home office of North Side Bank. While some favorable 
weight might be accorded the effect of the present proposal in eliminating 
"home office protection" in that city, it appears that there are 
alternative methods of accomplishing that result, which would not involve 
the anticompetitive effects of the present proposal. In the light of 
discussions which North Side Bank has had with other Connecticut banking 
organizations, it is not unlikely that, if the present application is denied, 
North Side would merge with some other bank and "home office protection" 
Would be removed from Bristol. Even if such action were not to occur, 
however, the Board is of the view that the anticompetitive effects of the 
Proposed merger would not be outweighed by the benefits accruing from 
the removal of "home office protection". 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition, management and future prospects of CBT and 
North Side Bank are satisfactory regardless of whether the proposed 
merger is consummated. 

3 0 9 5 
-4-
These considerations lend no weight toward approval cf the 
proposal. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved, - The 
banking needs of the Bristol-Plymouth areas are being adequately served 
by the banking organizations located therein and in nearby communities. 
However with the continuing expansion of industry in the Bristol area, 
it can be expected that more highly sophisticated services will be needed. 
The convenience and needs factors provide some weight in favor 
of approval of the application, but fail to outweigh the serious 
anticompetitive effects noted earlier. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
aot be in the public interest and should be denied. 
November 5, 1970. 

OfGOv^-. 
K 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
11/5/70 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BDARD 
November 13, 1970 
Mr. Robert A. Mullin, 
Director, International Division, 
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
Dear Mr. Mullin: 
In your letter of September 29, 1970, the views of the Board 
were requested on a proposal by The Chasf; Manhattan Bank, National 
Association, New York, New York, for its one-bank holding company, The 
Chase Manhattan Corporation, to purchase and hold a minority interest 
in Orion Limited, a merchant: bank to be formed in the United Kingdom. 
The Board's letter to the Comptroller of the Currency, dated 
April 27, 1970, expressed serious reservations about the appropriate-
ness of banks making foreign investments through one-bank holding com-
panies. Those reservations were founded on the fact that Congress has 
consistently given the Board of Governors primary supervisory respon-
sibility for authorizing Che foreign investments of member banks. The 
Board has noted that your Office generally concurs in those views. 
The Board has considered the reasons put forward in your 
letter for an exception to that general policy in the case of the pro-
posal of The Chase Manhattan Bank. 
It is now generally believed that 
Congress will enact legislation on one-bank holding companies during 
the current session and chat the Board of Governors will be given re-
sponsibility of supervising the domestic and international activities 
of such holding companies. 
Nevertheless, the Board believes that it 
would be premature to deviate from the general policv referred to above. 
Until the legislative situation is clarified and until policies and 
rules on international operations conducted through holding companies 
can subsequently be determined, the Board believes that foreign invest-
ments of member banks should continue to be made through traditional 
channels and that the public interest would be better served if pro-
posals of member banks to make foreign investments through one-bank 
holding companies are not approved. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

30; 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/5/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CnUREGF'OND 
fw Rt's^ 
November 5, 1970 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 19, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNC0IC") to pur-
chase and hold all of the shares of stock of a Canadian investment 
company ("CIC") to be formed under the laws of Canada, at a cost of 
approximately $2,437,500, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of CIC by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CIC if CIC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CIC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Canada or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of CIC as it may require from time to 
time; and 

30; 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CIC 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CIC were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter'so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CIC in Canada in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
of Association, and By-Laws of CIC. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
a s they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank and its other subsidiaries. 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
