September 22, 1967 
Minutes for 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
% 
Governor Maisel 
u 
Governor Brimmer 
, M 
k 
Governor Sherrill 

f \ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, September 22, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Koch, Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Eckert, 
Keir, and Kelty of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Katz, Reynolds, Gekker, Gemmill, 
Pizer, and Ruckdeschel of the Division of 
International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Kelty reported on the Government 
securities market, Mr. Axilrod reviewed bank credit projections, and 
Gemmill commented on the foreign exchange and gold markets, with 
eniphasis on sterling developments and the Italian payments position. 
CoPies of the tables and charts distributed for the purpose of today's 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 
i/ Withdrew at point indicated in minutes. 

9/22/67 
- 2 -
All members of the research divisions except Mr. Brill then 
withdrew, as did Mr. Morgan, and the following entered: 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Plotkin, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Greenspun, Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Sanford, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta on September 19 and by the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Chicago, and San Francisco on Septem-
ber 21, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appro-
priate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of a 
report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
The Sea Bright National Bank, Sea Bright, New Jersey, into The Central 
Jersey Bank and Trust Company, Freehold, New Jersey. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
There is little existing competition between The 
Central Jersey Bank and Trust Company, Freehold, and 
The Sea Bright National Bank, although concentration 
of banking resources in Monmouth County would be in-
creased to a slight extent. The overall effect of 
the proposed merger on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 

374 n 
9/22/67 
- 3 -
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Comp-
troller of the Currency of a report on the competitive factors involved 
in the proposed merger of Livermore National Bank, Livermore, Califor-
nia, into The Bank of California, National Association, San Francisco, 
California. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is virtually no present competition between The 
Bank of California, National Association, San Francisco, 
California, and Livermore National Bank, Livermore, Cali-
fornia. In view of California's provision for statewide 
branching, however, Bank of California could seek to 
branch de novo into Livermore; thus, there is potential 
for competition between them. On balance, the effect on 
competition would be slightly adverse. 
Summary of changes in bank stock ownership. In September 1966 
the Board authorized the publication of a monthly summary of changes 
in ownership of bank stock as reported by directors, officers, and 
Principal stockholders pursuant to the provisions of the Securities 
Exchange Act and Regulation F, Securities of Member State Banks. It 
W a s expected at the time that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion would authorize similar action and that a joint publication would 
result. However, Chairman Randall subsequently indicated that in his 
view it would be preferable if the publication included transactions 
l n stock of all insured banks and that consultation with the incoming 
Comptroller of the Currency therefore would seem advisable. 
The matter was mentioned by Governor Sherrill at a meeting of 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation on September 7, 1967, at 
which time Chairman Randall expressed the view, with which Comptroller 
Camp tacitly agreed, that there was not sufficient interest in bank 

9/22/67 
- 4 -
stocks to warrant the proposed publication. However, it was indicated 
that there would be no objection if the Board wanted to publish its 
own summary. 
With a memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 19, 
1967, there was submitted a draft of press release that would announce 
the publication each month of a summary of equity security transactions 
and ownership of directors, officers, and principal stockholders of 
State member banks, as reported pursuant to section 16(a) of the Secu-
rities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. The first summary was sched-
uled to be published around the end of October 1967. 
The publication of the monthly summary was approved unanimously, 
• with the understanding, however, that the press announcement would not 
be issued until near the end of October. 
Salary of officer at Dallas Bank (Item No. 1). Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
(copy attached as Item No. 1) approving the payment of salary to Robert 
W. Schultz, as Assistant Cashier assigned to the San Antonio Branch, 
for the period October 1 through December 31, 1967, at the annual rate 
$11,000, which rate had been fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company. There had been 
di stributed a draft of statement reflecting the Board's approval on 
September 13, 1967, of the application of The Detroit Bank and Trust 
Company, Detroit, Michigan, to consolidate with Commercial State Bank 

O <C\ <& 
9/22/67 
- 5 -
of Roseville, Roseville, Michigan. A draft of dissenting statement by 
Governors Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer also had been distributed. 
Mr. Shay stated that suggestions by Governor Daane had been 
incorporated in the proposed majority statement and that Governor 
Brimmer had expressed his satisfaction with the minority statement. 
Mr. Shay then made several suggestions for changes in both draft state-
ments, the general objective being, as he put it, to achieve a somewhat 
better balance between them. 
Some of Mr. Shay's suggestions were accepted, but there was 
considerable discussion of the terms in which reference should be made 
to the practicability of possible alternatives to the proposed merger. 
In addition, Governor Mitchell outlined certain points that he felt it 
would be desirable to include in the majority statement, and members 
°f the dissenting group expressed a desire to review the dissenting 
statement in the light of such changes as might be made in the majority 
statement. 
Accordingly, it was agreed that revised draft statements would 
be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Officer salaries at Kansas City Bank. The Federal Reserve 
Bank of Kansas City had requested approval, effective October 1, 1967, 
°f the payment of salaries to six officers at annual rates fixed by 
the Board of Directors. Promotional increases were involved in each 
instance, and four of the individuals would be newly-appointed officers. 

374.3 
9/22/67 
- 6 -
Governor Mitchell expressed willingness to approve the proposed 
salaries and then withdrew from the meeting to keep another appointment. 
Mr. Johnson pointed out that the Kansas City Bank would be 
carrying three officers assigned to the personnel function and five 
assigned to the research function. Those numbers were somewhat higher 
than at other Reserve Banks. He also noted that promotions of the kind 
here involved were generally announced by Reserve Banks at the beginning 
of the calendar year, after discussion of officer salaries and related 
matters with the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans. There appeared to be no compelling reason for accel-
erating the Kansas City promotions. He suggested, therefore, that the 
Board might want to consider deferring action on the proposed salaries. 
Governor Robertson commented that it was appropriate for the 
Personnel Division to call matters of this kind to the Board's atten-
tion. If proposals of a particular Reserve Bank were such that the 
number of officers assigned to various functions would be far out of 
line, the Bank should be asked for an explanation. However, it would 
he his inclination to rely upon the judgment of the Bank's management 
in most cases. 
In view of the question that had been raised about the timing 
the Kansas City promotions, Governor Robertson suggested that Gover-
nor Maisel talk with President Clay on that point, with the understand-
ing that unless their conversation disclosed some reason why deferment 

1174.4. 
9/22/67 
- 7 -
of action on the proposed salaries would seem advisable, the salaries 
would stand approved as submitted. 
There was agreement with Governor Robertson's suggestion. 
Secretary's Note: After talking with 
President Clay, Governor Maisel informed 
the Secretary that notification to the 
Kansas City Bank of Board action on the 
proposed salaries should be withheld 
pending discussion by the Board's Commit-
tee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans. 
Federal chartering of mutual savings banks. In a telegram of 
September 21 the President, Vice President, and Executive Vice Presi-
dent of the American Bankers Association advised Chairman Martin of the 
text of a wire that they had sent to President Johnson. The telegram 
stated that the Administrative Committee of the Association had voted 
unanimously to authorize an expression of grave concern over a recently 
reported compromise proposal of the United States Savings and Loan 
League and the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks to provide 
f°r Federal chartering of mutual savings banks and substantial enlarge-
ment of their lending powers. The Administration was urged to refrain 
from comment on the proposal until there could be an interchange of 
4 J 
iQeas between the Administration and the American Bankers Association. 
It was agreed that receipt of the telegram should be acknowl-
edged over the Vice Chairman's signature in Chairman Martin's absence. 
In further discussion, Governor Maisel reported his understand-
ing that the Administration was attempting to reach a policy position 

3745 
9/22/67 
- 8 -
on the proposed legislation. In his view the American Bankers Associa-
tion had a good argument when it said that if Federally-chartered 
mutual savings banks (savings associations) were going to enjoy a tax 
advantage they should be specialized institutions. If the savings 
banks wanted to have substantially enlarged lending powers, they should 
pay taxes on a competitive basis. 
Governor Robertson noted that after an Administration position 
had been negotiated the Board would probably be asked for its views. 
In the meantime it would appear appropriate for the Board to refrain 
from taking any position. 
Governor Sherrill agreed, adding that before the Board expressed 
itself he would want a full discussion of the proposed legislation on 
its merits. 
Governor Maisel suggested that in preparation the Board's staff 
might be examining the merits of specialized versus nonspecialized 
institutions, as well as how the tax exemption ought to be used. 
Mr. Brill commented that the staff could review the papers that 
had been prepared in connection with the work of the President's Com-
mittee on Financial Institutions, and Governor Maisel suggested that 
the staff also might want to check with Mr. Sternlight of the Treasury 
and Mr. Duesenberry of the Council of Economic Advisers. 
Truth in lending. Each member of the Board had received yester-
day a telegram from the President of the American Bankers Association 

874.6 
9/22/67 
- 9 -
stating that the Association's Administrative Committee was deeply 
concerned about reports that the Board was supporting the idea of 
placing the enforcement of proposed advertising provisions of truth-
in-lending legislation with the Federal Trade Commission. The Commit-
tee strongly believed that another layering of Federal regulation of 
banks was undesirable and unnecessary. 
It was undesirable because non-
banking agencies should not regulate banks, or be relied upon to inter-
pret and enforce regulations drafted by bank regulatory agencies. It 
was unnecessary because enforcement for banks would not be burdensome 
if handled through regular bank examination channels, with enforcement 
split among the three Federal banking agencies. The Association sug-
gested that the Board request the views of the Coordinating Committee 
Bank Regulation. 
Copies of the wire had been sent to the Secretary 
°f the Treasury, the Comptroller of the Currency, the Chairman of the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Chairman of the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board. 
Governor Robertson said that after yesterday's Board meeting 
he advised the staff of the Association of his views concerning the 
matter. 
Subsequently, in a conversation with the Executive Vice Presi-
dent of the Association, he reiterated his position that an even-handed 
aPproach could not be achieved with enforcement split among several 
agencies, that it would therefore be better to place the enforcement 
responsibili ty with one agency, that he would still be willing to have 

9/22/67 
- 1 0 -
the Board draw up regulations if requested, but that the Federal Trade 
Commission quite understandably might prefer to draw up any regulations 
it had 
to enforce. The problem, in Governor Robertson's opinion, did 
not involve bank supervision; every lender and creditor was going to 
be faced with complying with the advertising provisions of truth-in-
lending legislation. 
Governor Robertson further stated that upon receipt of the 
telegram he had tried to reach Chairman Randall but found that the 
latter was out of town. He did get in touch with the Comptroller, who 
said he was willing to go along with the American Bankers Association 
and did not believe that the monitoring of bank advertising would 
involve much additional burden. He (Governor Robertson) also got in 
touch with Chairman Home of the Home Loan Bank Board, but Chairman 
Horne had just received the telegram and had not reached any position. 
Governor Robertson said he was not about to call a meeting of 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, for he did not feel 
that a problem of bank supervision was involved. He added that if he 
should be approached by representatives of the House Banking and Cur-
rency Subcommittee considering truth-in-lending legislation he would 
take the same position as before. Otherwise, he proposed to take no 
further steps; he was not greatly concerned about the matter. 
Governor Sherrill said he had nothing to add to the comments 
^e had made at the Board meeting yesterday. 
'36, -J / 

374 8 
9/22/67 
- 1 1 -
Governor Maisel suggested that if inquiry should be made it 
might be appropriate to indicate that the Board considered the ques-
tion a toss-up in many ways. He judged that to be a fair appraisal 
of the discussion at the meeting yesterday. 
It was agreed that receipt of the telegrams from the President 
of the American Bankers Association would be acknowledged in a single 
letter over the signature of the Vice Chairman. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 2 
is a copy of a letter sent today, with the 
approval of Governor Robertson, to the 
Chairman of the Conference of Presidents 
suggesting that the current study by the 
Committee on Sundry Operations of plans 
for handling shorter-run disruptions of 
Federal Reserve services include consid-
eration of protection against civil dis-
turbances. The letter was sent pursuant 
to the suggestion made at the meeting on 
September 15, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
transfers 
Ruth E. Robinson, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, from the Business Conditions Section to the Flow of Funds 
ar*d Savings Section, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate 
o f $4,776, effective September 25, 1967. 
Katherine M. Colquette, from the position of Secretary in the 
Division of Personnel Administration to the position of Secretary in 
the Division of Data Processing, with no change in basic annual salary 
a t the rate of $6,659, effective September 24, 1967. 
Wilhelmina K. Steele, from the position of Electronic Accounting 
Machine Operator to the position of Data Control Clerk, Division of 
ata Processing, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of 
$6>387, effective September 24, 1967. 

3749 
9/22/67 
- 1 2 -
Salary increases, effective September 24, 1967 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Research and Statistics 
H'V t ho .' •' . . 
Ruth A. Fabricant, Economist 
$10,481 
$11,306 
' • - y.i •. » ".:<:, 
Administrative Services 
Lois A. Chandler, Utility Clerk 
5,683 
5,859 
Johnnie D. Jones, Jr., Laborer 
3,731 
3,853 
Napoleon H. Marrow, Jr., Messenger 
4,058 
4,191 
George William Smith, Laborer 
3,731 
3,853 
Data Processing 
Winofred F. Altshuler, Senior Chart Machine 
9,001 
9,262 
Operator 
Daniel T. Garges, Information Systems Analyst 
13,769 
15,106 
Joyce M. Hile, Secretary 
6,065 
6,263 
Betty Lee Smithson, Programmer 
6,451 
7,696 
.Re-employment following maternity leave 
Landonia Ann Jones, Stenographer, Division of Examinations, with 
basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective September 25, 
1967. 
Agceptance of resignation 
Ernest L. Solar, Senior Programmer, Division of Data Processing, 
effective September 22, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising of 
the death of Charles A. Yager, Associate 
Adviser in the Division of International 
Finance, on September 20, 1967. 
On September 22, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 

o 
9/22/67 
- 1 3 -
' 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
approving the designation of John L. Stewart as 
special assistant examiner. 
Item No 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, approving the operation of a 
limited banking facility on the University 
of California campus at Davis from 10:00 a.m. 
; to 5:00 p.m. on September 24, 1967. 
- U t u 
Hr. . . : 
x 
Qfmctr^ J.V; 
,v 
1 SHrqujln l a e 
31 
' • : r ... 
C
W 
L/V\Am-
Secret 
i 
r , >",( H' 
I 
I . 
A S\/\A/\ 
, r •; < 

• - i^vy 
3751 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
9/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 22, 1967 
AIR MAIL 
.'•.'- < 
••• 
> ••' i': ' 
Mr. Watrous H. Irons, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 75222 
°ear Mr. Irons: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
t o Mr. Robert W. Schultz as an Assistant Cashier of the San Antonio 
Branch at the rate of $11,000 per annum for the period October 1 
through December 31. 1967. This is the rate fixed by your Board 
Directors as reported in your letter of September 14, 1967. 
si I 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
i • 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3752 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
9/22/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 22, 1967. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
It is noted that pursuant to the Board's letter 
of August 2, 1967, the Committee on Sundry Operations of 
the Presidents' Conference has been requested to study 
and make recommendations on System planning for shorter-
run disruptions in Federal Reserve services. 
•• For •:iu> J •.vie r
r
W
»
c
.
. 
St. v.Ulc,. . 
Among the possible causes of disruptions mentioned 
in the Board's letter were riots, which would include civil 
disturbances such as have occurred recently in a number of 
cities. Aside from possible disruption of services, there 
is the possibility of intrusion into Reserve Bank buildings 
during such disturbances, with risk of harm to occupants, 
damage to property, and loss of valuables. 
It is recognized, of course, that the situation 
varies considerably from one Reserve Bank office to another, 
and that detailed guidelines probably would not be feasible. 
However, it would be helpful if the Committee would give 
consideration to this as pect of the matter in the course of 
its study with a view to recommending such general guidelines 
for security measures as might seem appropriate. 
V2ry truly yours , 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

O / O ^ J 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
item No. 3 
O F T H E 
9 / 2 2 / 6 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 25, 1967. 
Mr. 0. 0. Wyrick, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Wyrick: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of September 20, 1967, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the desig-
nation of John L. Stewart as a special assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis. 
vT: >, frjJ > 7 
j./.. 
As requested the name of Austin W. Suits has 
been deleted from the list of special assistant examiners. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N RHAIROWOO, OALITOKNIA 
94180 
I T E M 
N Q 
9/22/67 
Saptaaber 22, 1967 
Board of Director*, 
Walls Pargo Bank, 
San Francisco, California. 
I I 
; - ' .; V- . • 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of" t&K' fq&i&j^^ 
>f 
V 
Federal Reserve Syatcm, acting under delegated authority,v 
MilsBank hat approved. the"operation at a JnaitkA banking 
facility at 550 Oxford Circle 
University of California , 
9«anpufl at Davis, Yolo County, C^lifopria, on Sunday, 
September 24, l^rfr^KLOiOO A.V^o 5:00 P.M. 
Very truly yours, 
(oi/mod) Irwin L. Jennings 
' t i 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
