Minutes for 
Septembe 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
°nly that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3 ? 0 » ! 9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 21, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
iw i < •*. 
As 
PRESENT: 
ftehj..-. 
J' 
f i : « ! 
'Ku.: .. 
V' '^Mfiv , . 
in; 
** 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Hooff, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Messrs. Leavitt, Dahl, and Egertson, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Langham and Rhinehart, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Miss Hart and Mr. Doyle of the Legal Division 
Mr. Greenspun of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Mcintosh and White of the Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing 

:
m
o 
9/21/67 
-2-
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies of the letters are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated. 
liv-u.; • • 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting 
consent for the purchase of shares of E. D. 
Sassoon Banking Company, Limited, Nassau, 
Bahamas, or of a parent United Kingdom cor-
poration. 
Letter to the Organization Committee of Wood 
& Huston Bank, Marshall, Missouri (a proposed 
trust company to result from conversion of a 
State member bank of the same name), approv-
ing the trust company's application for mem-
ership in the Federal Reserve System, effec-
tive if a nd when it opens for business under 
appropriate State authorization. 
Letter to all Federal Reserve Banks regarding 
submission of reports by State member banks 
and their affiliates as of the next call date. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
aPProving the payment of salary to Ralph Thurman 
a s an Assistant Cashier of the Nashville Branch 
^ the annual rate fixed by the Bank's Board of 
Erectors. 
^tter to the Secretary of the Retirement System 
the Federal Reserve Banks noting and inter-
l n8 no objection to a proposed resolution by 
c
 e Retirement Committee to limit the additional 
^ 
tributions of a member in any given year to 
Per cent of his basic salary for that year. 
Item No, 
During discussion of Item No. 3, Governor Robertson said that 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had expressed a strong interest 

9/21/67 
-3-
in moving ahead to develop a uniform call report form for use by the 
three Federal bank supervisory agencies. In the near future, therefore, 
the staffs of the agencies would renew their efforts in that direction. 
While there were some controversial items, there appeared to be no prob-
lems that could not be worked out. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
°f Conemaugh Valley Bank, Blairsville, Pennsylvania, into First National 
sank in Ind iana, Indiana, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that consumma-
tion of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Messrs. Dahl, Egertson, Doyle, Greenspun, and Veenstra then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
I.« 
Los Angeles Branch Board (Item No. 6). There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated September 20, 1967, from Messrs. Fauver and 
^0rgan regarding a request from the Federal Reserve Bank of San Fran-
cisco for approval of action taken by the Bank's Board of Directors 
increasing the membership of the Los Angeles Branch Board from five to 
S e v e n effective January 1, 1968, in view of the increase in population 
a n d business activity in that area. 
The Board's regulation relating to branches of Federal Reserve 
Banks states in part that "The board of directors of each branch of a 
e r al Reserve bank shall consist either of seven members or five 

9/21/67 
-4-
members, as may be determined by the Federal Reserve bank, subject to 
the approval of the Board of Governors." The regulation also provides 
that four members of a seven-member branch board and three of a five-
member branch board shall be appointed by the Reserve Bank, the others 
by the Board of Governors. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter that would 
state that the Board approved the change and, of the several plans sug-
gested by the Reserve Bank for accomplishing the shift, would express a 
Preference for Plan A, which would permit the usual six-year period of 
Service for all Bank-appointed directors, so far as the Bank's role was 
concerned. The memorandum suggested, however, that inasmuch as Plan A 
w°uld not appear to accomplish an orderly rotation of Board-appointed 
directors, a decision on the manner in which the Board would accomplish 
its part of the shift could be delayed until the year-end appointments 
a n d reappointments were made by the Board. 
• 
After a discussion during which there was agreement with a 
change i n language suggested by Governor Brimmer, the letter was approved 
Unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 6. 
Messrs. Hooff and Morgan then withdrew from the meeting. 
Meeting dates for Open Market Committee. There had been dis-
tr ib 
uted a memorandum from Mr. Broida dated September 20, 1967, suggest-
n8 Possible dates for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee in 
The schedule called for 13 meetings, as compared with 14 in 1967, 

3 7 1 3 
9/21/67 
-5-
and involved 4-week intervals between meetings throughout the year. 
The schedule included two potential problem dates: September 17, a 
Probable Federal Advisory Council meeting date, and November 12, which 
would occur after a Monday holiday. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the holiday problem in November 
could be solved if another meeting were scheduled for October, with 
some use of three-week intervals. He believed there was some advan-
tage in being able to say that Committee meetings were held at three-
o r four-week intervals. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about pressures on the staff in terms 
°f Preparation, and the staff indicated that there was some difficulty 
Preparing for meetings at three-week intervals if several successive 
Meetings were so spaced. 
Governor Daane said his preference would be toward keeping the 
dumber of meetings down. In the absence of special circumstances, he 
believed a three-week interval was quite short. He expressed the view 
that three-week intervals should be avoided during the summer especially, 
° n e factor being that absences of Committee members were more likely to 
°ccur during that season. He suggested shifting the meeting scheduled 
August 20 to August 27, and then mixing the intervals for the 
reinainder of the year. 
Governor Brimmer observed that that would result in a five-
Week ^ 
interval before the August meeting. While he could agree to four-
Week ^ 
intervals in general, he had some doubt about five weeks. 

3714 
9/21/67 
-6-
Governor Robertson said it seemed to him there was some merit 
in Governor Maisel's point about being able to say that meetings were 
held every three or four weeks; he suggested that meetings be scheduled 
at four-week intervals in the summer months, with occasional three-week 
intervals during the rest of the year. 
Mr. Broida then suggested that the June meeting might be moved 
from the 25th to the 18th, with subsequent meetings on July 16, August 13, 
September 10, October 8, October 29, November 26, and December 17. 
After further discussion, there was general agreement with the 
revised schedule Mr. Broida had suggested, and it was understood that 
it would be submitted for consideration at the next meeting of the Fed-
eral Open Market Committee. 
Management information conference (Item No. 7). There had been 
distributed a memorandum dated September 15, 1967, from Mr. Kiley regard-
a recommendation of the Division of Bank Operations that a two-day 
c°nference of senior officers of the Reserve Banks be held in November 
^967 to discuss possible improvements in the flow of information on the 
^anageme nt and operations of the Reserve Banks. It was also requested 
that the Board authorize a dinner on the first evening of the confer-
ence and an overexpenditure in the 1967 budget of the Division for that 
Purpose. 
The memorandum, which described the agenda proposed for the 
c°nference, reviewed the work measurement programs participated in by 

c 
1 ' ' 1 O 
9/21/67 
-7-
several of the Reserve Banks and the benefits that were expected to 
result therefrom. It was noted that the Division of Bank Operations 
had had under consideration for some time the idea of summarizing func-
tional expense data in a manner better suited for top management use. 
The memorandum concluded by citing expressions of interest by Reserve 
Bank officers in developing an improved information system. Attached 
was a letter to the Reserve Banks that would outline the conference 
Plans. 
After comments by Mr. Kiley, Governor Mitchell expressed him-
self in favor of the conference but suggested that the letter not commit 
members of the Board to participate. 
Governor Maisel inquired about the relationship of the project 
t o the program planning and budgeting system proposed to be adopted by 
the Federal Government as a whole, and Mr. Kiley responded that it was 
believeci the Federal Reserve procedures would be in harmony with, and 
advance upon, the Government system. It was hoped that they would 
Provide a more concrete control device. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the holding of the confer-
ence was approved unanimously, along with the budget overexpenditure 
that would result from the dinner to be given. The letter to the Fed-
e r al Reserve Banks was approved in the form attached as Item No. 7. 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company. Governor 
Robertson referred to the Board's approval on September 13, 1967, with 

3716 
9/21/67 
-8-
Governors Maisel and Brimmer dissenting, of the application of The 
Detroit Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan, to consolidate with 
Commercial State Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Michigan. Although he 
had not been present at that meeting, he had participated in the dis-
cussion of the application at the meeting on July 27, 1967, and had 
taken an adverse position. Accordingly, if there was no objection, 
he would like to have his adverse vote recorded. 
Other members of the Board assented to the request, and it was 
understood that Governor Robertson's adverse vote would be recorded. 
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Sherman, 
Brill} Molony, Cardon, Hexter, and Partee, and Mrs. Semia. 
Truth in lending. Governor Robertson stated that the Board 
Probably would be requested soon to take a position regarding changes 
that were being advocated by the American Bankers Association in pend-
ing 
truth-in-lending legislation. Officials of the Association had 
indicated to him that the Association would now support a requirement 
that finance charges be expressed in terms of an annual percentage rate, 
along with coverage of revolving credit accounts. Thus, the position 
the Association was now parallel to that of the Board in regard to 
disclosure requirements. However, the Association had submitted to 
the House Committee on Banking and Currency, and would like to have 
the Board support, a proposal for control of advertising. 
Governor Robertson could see no objection to the basic proposal. 
However, it called for the Board to write regulations and, instead of 

37 r? 
9/21/67 
-9-
Placing enforcement responsibility with the Federal Trade Commission, 
which already had some powers with respect to advertising in connection 
with fair trade practices, would provide that enforcement be exercised 
by the Board with respect to State member banks, the Comptroller of the 
Currency with respect to national banks, the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation with respect to nonmember insured banks, the Federal Home 
Loan Bank Board with respect to savings and loan associations, and the 
Federal Trade Commission with respect to others. 
Governor Robertson said it seemed to him that enforcement of 
advertising guidelines had nothing to do with supervision of banks or 
their soundness. He also believed that a more equitable approach would 
result from having the enforcement responsibility assigned to one agency 
rather than divided. If it were divided, there could be different judg-
ments as to what was acceptable advertising and what was not. 
Governor Robertson recommended taking the position that enforce-
ment, as far as advertising was concerned, should be assigned to a single 
agency; that none of the Federal agencies supervising banks or other 
depositary-type institutions should have to monitor all advertisements 
organizations it supervised when there was available a single agency, 
tbe Federal Trade Commission, that could handle the entire task. In 
summary, he proposed that the Board agree, if necessary, to write the 
regulations regarding advertising for all institutions, but that the 
®°ard not endorse a distribution of enforcement responsibility. 

3718 
9/21/67 
-10-
Governor Mitchell said that he was sympathetic to Governor 
Robertson's position. If it became necessary to resort to a fall-
back position, however, he would agree to an approach in which the 
Board would undertake the job with respect to banks rather than have 
enforcement split among the three Federal banking agencies. Of the 
three, he believed the Federal Reserve was the best equipped for the 
task, although he would like to avoid the assignment. 
Governor Daane agreed with Governor Robertson that the Board 
should not become involved in enforcing advertising regulations if it 
could avoid the responsibility. 
Governor Brimmer stated that although he would not like to get 
involved in policing advertisements, at the same time he was sympathetic 
with the American Bankers Association's reluctance to have the Federal 
Trade Commission exercise surveillance over the banking business in any 
Way. He would rather see enforcement responsibility vested in one 
agency, the Board, than have the responsibility split. 
Governor Sherrill commented that his conclusion was somewhat 
different. He agreed that enforcement should not be placed in the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, but he was in favor of splitting it among the 
bank supervisory agencies. This was a task not greatly different from 
°ther problems that were encountered every day and were handled by the 
SeParate agencies. 
If a single agency of the three should be named to 
do the job, he believed it should be the Federal Deposit Insurance 
c°rporation, because that agency had an interest in all insured banks. 

9 
9/21/67 
-11-
Governor Maisel remarked that there were problems in splitting 
the writing of regulations from enforcement. The one advantage of 
assigning enforcement to the Federal Trade Commission was that only a 
two-way split would result. It would seem extremely cumbersome if the 
Board were to write regulations and enforcement was split five ways--
among the Board, the Comptroller, the Corporation, the Home Loan Bank 
Board, and the Trade Commission. 
Governor Robertson observed that assignment of enforcement to 
the Federal Trade Commission did not mean that the Commission would 
enter banks in the supervisory sense. That agency would not have to 
So into the records of banks in any way. 
Governor Brimmer commented that his point had been that the 
Federal Trade Commission should be kept out of banking—not just out 
°f banks. He did not believe the Commission should be in the position 
overseeing banks in any way. 
Governor Robertson noted that merely looking at all advertise-
ments would be a substantial task, while Governor Sherrill expressed 
the view that banks would be alert to report any advertisement of a 
competitor that seemed to violate the statute. 
As the discussion proceeded, Governor Maisel suggested that 
the Board, if questioned, might cite the arguments for and against the 
Various alternatives and point out that there was much to be said on 
each side. 

2 0 
9/21/67 
-12-
Governor Daane stated that as a fall-back position he had some 
sympathy with Governor Sherrill's suggestion. He would not like to 
give an impression that the Board sought the enforcement responsibility. 
If it was not possible to have that responsibility assigned to the Fed-
eral Trade Commission, it would seem to him reasonable to split it among 
the agencies, which already had to administer various functions on a 
divided basis. 
Mr. Cardon observed, in terms of the fall-back position, that 
he did not believe any member of the Board contemplated that enforce-
ment responsibility with respect to savings and loan associations would 
he placed in the banking agencies rather than the Federal Home Loan Bank 
Board. The proposal of the American Bankers Association contemplated a 
five-way split, with credit unions and nonfinancial institutions being 
assigned to the Federal Trade Commission. 
Governor Robertson noted that the complexities of a five-way 
sPlit of enforcement duties lent weight to advocating that the assign-
ment of all enforcement as far as advertising was concerned be placed 
with the Federal Trade Commission. 
Governor Maisel remarked that one alternative would be to 
separate enforcement for all financial institutions from enforcement 
f°r others. 
At the conclusion of the discussion Chairman Martin expressed 
^is support of Governor Robertson's view, referred to the latter's 

9/21/67 
-13-
close association with the evolving problems of the truth-in-lending 
legislation, and suggested that it would seem advisable to back Governor 
Robertson in his negotiation of this phase of the matter. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 8 
is a copy of a letter sent today over the 
signature of Chairman Martin to the Bureau 
of the Budget in response to the Bureau's 
request for the views of the Board with re-
spect to enrolled bill S. 1956, "To extend 
for one year the authority for more flexible 
regulation of maximum rates of interest or 
dividends, higher reserve requirements, and 
open market operations in agency issues." 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Salary increases 
Mack R. Rowe, Chief, Economic Graphics Section, Division of Data 
Processing, from $13,321 to $14,217 per annum, effective September 24, 
1967. 
Gwendolyn G. Todd, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, from 
$5,683 to $6,065 per annum, effective October 22, 1967. 
^£geptance of resignations 
Minnie G. Searcy, Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, effec-
tive the close of business September 22, 1967. 
Helen M. Kline, Secretary, Division of Bank Operations, effective 
the close of business September 30, 1967. 
£££niission to engage in outside activity 
Linda Lee Sink, Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administration, 
t o sell cosmetics on a part-time basis. 

9/21/67 
-14-
3722 
On September 21, 1967, actions were 
taken on behalf of the Board under 
delegated authority as indicated by 
the following letters, copies of which 
are attached under the respective item 
numbers indicated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
approving the appointment of Harold W. Schmitz 
as assistant examiner. 
^ 
T 
tetter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
approving the designation of L. Gerald Perks, Jr., 
as special assistant examiner. 
Item No 
10 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to American Bank & Trust Company, New 
York, New York, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch at 562 Fifth 
Avenue. 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, 
approving the 
establishment of a branch at Hovis Road and 
Green Street, Charlotte. 
11 
12 

8?23 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/21/67 
A D O R E B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 21, 1967. 
ontinental International Finance Corporation, 
South LaSalle Street, 
^icago, Illinois. 
60690 
C l e m e n s 
of c
 
A s r e tl u e s t e d in your letter of August 23, 1967, the Board 
governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
Ba k-UP t 0 3 0 p e r C e n t o f t h e o r d i n a r y shares of E. D. Sassoon 
K i n h 8 C o m p a n y ' L i m i t e d j Nassau, Bahamas, or of a parent United 
equ?(dom corporation engaged exclusively in holding the controlling 
Qf
 lty interest in one or more organizations carrying on the business 
P r o
S - h banking company, at a cost of approximately US$1,500,000, 
vided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
n i s letter. 
the • 
T h e f o r eS o i nS consent is given with the understanding that 
^nd ^ n v e s t m e n t n o w being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
5ank l n V e S t m e n t S ° f y ° U r C o r P o r a t i o n > Continental Illinois National 
New v a n d T r u s t Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank International, 
°rk> w i H not cause the total of such loans and investments to 
te8t
ed.the guidelines established under the voluntary foreign credit 
8iv r a i n t e f f o r t now in effect and that due consideration is being 
en to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3724. 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
9/21/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 21, 1967 
Organization Committee, 
Wood & Huston Bank, 
Marshall, Missouri. 
Gentlemen: 
£he Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application made on behalf of Wood 6c Huston Bank, 
Marshall, Missouri, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of 
st. Louis, effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made 
in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers exercised by it at the 
time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $200,000, and other capital funds of approximately 
$1,500,000. 
The Board also approves the establishment and operation 
by the resulting State member bank of the branch office now operated 
by Wood & Huston Bank, Marshall, Missouri. 

Q ^ O C 
O Y 
Wood & Huston Bank 
-2-
l v 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions 
ln the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
°f directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
usiness has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, 
together with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
t. Louis. Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
° r an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
eserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
'30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
n e Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
aPpropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
h e bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
o f membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Closure. 

BDARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/21/67 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE! 
TO THE BOARD 
September 22, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The indicated number of copies of the following forms are 
being forwarded to your "bank under separate cover for use of State 
member "bank3 and their affiliates in submitting reports as of the next 
call date: 
Number of 
copies 
<; 
Form FR 105 (Call No. 185, revised to short form 
September 1967), Report of Condition of State 
member banks. 
Form FR 105e (Revised June I967), Publisher's copy 
of report of condition of State member "banks. 
Form FR 105e-l (Revised June 1967), Publisher's 
copy of report of condition of State member banks. 
Form FR 105M (Supplement), Supplemental information 
on Bank Credit, Check Credit, Overdraft and Other 
Revolving Credit Plans. 
Form FR 220 (Revised September 1966), Report of 
Affiliate or Holding Company Affiliate. 
Form FR 220a (Revised September 1966), Publisher's 
copy of Report of Affiliate or Holding Company 
Affiliate. 

-2-
O 4 
i 
The face of the condition report form is identical to 
that used for the June 1967 call. It is understood the Office 
of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation will distribute a form similar on the face. As for 
other recent spring and fall calls the supporting schedules on 
the reverse have been eliminated except for the items required 
for deposit insurance assessment purposes. 
Memoranda items on the back of the form for reporting 
valuation reserves on loans and securities have "been included 
but items pertaining to averages of deposits and loans have been 
eliminated. The average deposit and loan items have "been retained 
on the publisher's copy of the State member form. However, since 
they are not as pertinent for this call as for the mid-year and 
year-end calls, when "window dressing" has been a problem, report-
ing banks should be advised that publication is optional. The 
Comptroller of the Currency is not requiring publication of these 
items for this call. 
Supplemental information on participation by commercial 
"banks in credit card, check credit, overdraft, and revolving credit 
plans will be collected from State member banks by means of a special 
supplement. The same information will be collected from national 
and insured non-member State banks by means of a special memorandum 
section on the back of the condition report form. Collection of 
this information is desirable at this time because of the need by 
the Federal Banking Agencies for more information covering the spread 
of credit card banking. Specifically, information to be gathered will 
contribute significantly to studies of the impact of bank credit card 
Plans now underway by the Federal Reserve System. Considerable 
interest in this subject has also been expressed by the Congress, 
"by the public, and by the banking community itself. Instructions 
for processing this special supplement will be furnished by the 
Consumer Credit Section of the Board's Division of Research and 
Statistics. 
Since many of the data from the face of the report are 
available from other sources and in view of the limited analytic 
use of the additional information to be reported, it will not be 
necessary to keypunch for the Board's use condition data reported 
at the fall call date. 
In this connection, attention is callcd to the provision 
contained in Public Law 90-44, enacted July 3, 1967, Scction 1, 
(g)(9). This law, which appeared in the August Federal Reserve 

- 3 -
Bulletin at page 1333, requires that each member bank include 
-with (but not as part of) each report of condition and copy 
filed with the F.D.I.C. a report of all loans to executive officers 
under authority of that subsection made by the bank since its 
previous report of condition. For purposes of the current report, 
member banks should be guided by the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation 0 as now in effect. 
t'"v. Mr * :v.\ c "j I .1 '1 . Var. : - z . J* " 
' 
v -^ 
• . J,:;.- '." ',: /M;,:-.' • -
Enclosures 
Very truly yours, 
Merrltt Sherman, 
Secretary, 
: • 
Tnu-i- :.:»• aj 
A - ^ u : 
• 
;; 
^ 
hz 
..'i- r-.w ' 
r : •"• r. :> I. 'J ,iKu 
^'ir 
J^ui.uit 
;.,*.» c 
cd 
. . . . 

V 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20581 
Item No. 4 
9/21/67 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L C D R R E 3 P • N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 21, 1967 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Harold T. Patterson, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Patterson: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to Mr. Ralph Thurman as an Assistant Cashier of the Nashville 
Branch at the rate of $12,000 per annum for the period October 1 
through December 31, 1967. This It the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of September 13, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3730 
. M T r e s ^ : -
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
9/21/67 
A D D R E S S 
• FFI C I A L C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 21, 1967 
Mr. Martin W. Bergin, 
Secretary, Retirement System 
of the Federal Reserve Banks, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Bergin: 
Relative to your letter of August 24, 1967, concerning 
a proposed resolution of the Retirement Committee to limit the 
additional contributions of a member in any given year to ten 
per centum of his basic salary paid to him during such year, the 
Board understands this resolution will bring the Retirement Sys-
tem's limit on additional contributions into line with current 
Internal Revenue Service regulations. Accordingly, the Board 
notes the change and interposes no objection to such a resolution 
being adopted by the Retirement Committee to become effective 
October 1, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

.... 
BOARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
• . 
C. 205S1 
Item No. 1 
9/21/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R C 9 P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 21, 1967. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr.'Swan: 
In reply to your letter of September 7, 1967, the 
Board approves the action of your Board of Directors voting 
to increase the number of directors of your Los Angeles branch 
from five to seven effective January 1, 1968. The Board shares 
the view of your directors that the larger board for the Los 
Angeles branch is an appropriate recognition of the growth of 
the Los Angeles area in population and business activity. 
To provide for the transfer from two to three-year 
terms of office, the Board favors adoption of the part of your 
suggested Plan A which would continue the present Reserve Bank 
appointees on a two-year basis until six years of service have 
elapsed. However, Plan A apparently will not work satisfactorily 
for the Board's appointees. Appropriate adjustments will be made 
in such cases to conform their service to the three-year term 
basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

3732 
BOARD D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20851 
Item No. 1 
9/21/67 
A D D R I l l 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 21, 1967. 
De«r Sir: 
There has been a growing awareness in recent years of a need to 
Wrove the quality and flow of information used by the management of the 
^derai Reserve System to monitor operations and expenses. Several Reserve 
8anka recently installed clerical work standards as one way of upgrading the 
Jata available for measuring performance. In addition, a few Banks have 
lnstituted programs aimed at developing better techniques for evaluating 
derating experience and summarizing the result of the evaluation for 
^agement use. 
ftom 
It is felt that staff at the Reserve Banks and the Board would benefit 
an opportunity to exchange ideas and viewpoints on this subject. Accord-
|n8ly, the Board proposes that a conference on management information be held 
the Board's offices on November 8 and 9. The dates are tentative and would 
G made final if convenient with most of the participants. It is expected that 
ea°h Reserve Bank would be represented by the First Vice President and another 
®®nior officer, or two other senior officers who may be directly concerned 
,lth the preparation and use of Reserve Bank management information. Please 
at your earliest convenience, the names of those officers who will 
ePresent your Bank and whether the dates tentatively scheduled are acceptable. 
Q 
The Board's Division of Bank Operations has prepared a tentative 
Senda for the conference, copy attached, and would appreciate receiving 
^u8gestions for additional topics. Copies of the formal agenda will be sent 
as soon as it has been completed. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Shermarf, 
Secretary, 
Att*chment 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 
9/21/67 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C 
2 Q 5 5 I 
v -. . 
... ' . 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
September 21, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
x 
• 
r.. -Jz 
., 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
• , 
i • ' 'v 
This is in response to a telephonic request from 
your office this morning for the views of the Board of 
Governors with respect to enrolled bill S. 1956, "To extend 
for one year the authority for more flexible regulation of 
maximum rates of interest or dividends, higher reserve re-
gie-. < 
w-'.l"', 
, T, ,) 
» 
O 
quirements, and open market operations in agency issues." 
r -<h .U^j 
ukhoriiy, 
ap-^tn^aai. 
The Board favors Presidential approval of the 
bill... , 
Sincerely yours, 
Wm. McG. Martin, Jr. 

.; 3734. 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
S* 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
I: 
N , 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
• O R R E S P D N O E N C E 
.* 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
Item No. 9 
9/21/67 
September 22, 1967 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in Mr.Harris' 
letter of September 19, 1967, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors 
under delegated authority, approves the appointment of Harold 
W. Schmitz as an assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York. Please advise.the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3 7 3 5 
BDARD DF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
9/21/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 22, 1967. 
v» i j V ' 
. 
•;.<? 
wxtcnrj.* 
en 
xhc 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
lo'i&'-y J d, 
last 
-jf 
- ri r^o • 0;: 
. 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of September 19, 1967, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the desig-
nation of L. Gerald Perks, Jr., as a special assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

ft£3£S.VS:. K G? 
3736 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF N E W 
Y O R K 
N E W 
Y O R K , N . Y . 1 0 0 4 5 
I t e m 
N o - 
1 : 
9/21/67 
A R E A C O O E a i a 
R E 
2 - 0 7 0 0 
September 21, 1967 
Mr. Torleaf H. Benestad 
Executive Vice President 
American Bank & Tru3t Company 
70 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Benestad: 
Reference is made to your letter dated 
September llj-, 19^7, requesting an extension of the 
"time within which your bank may establish a branch 
at 562 Fifth Avenue, New York, New York, as approved 
^y the Board of Governors on January 12, 1966. 
Since 
that time, there have been several extensions of time 
granted, the last of which expires October 12, 1967. 
( 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York, acting under delegated authority, has 
approved your request and extends to January 12, 1968, 
the time within which your bank may establish a branch 
a"t the above location. 
We shall appreciate your reconfirming the 
effective date of opening, when the branch is estab-
lished. 
Please acknowledge receipt of this letter by 
signing and returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
Vice President 
^ c l o s u r e 

m 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND. VIRGINIA 
23213 
feytttstar 21, 1967. 
3737 COPY 
Item No. 12 
9/21/67 
Board of Directors, 
Wachovia Beak and trust Ccapany, 
Winstcn-Salew, Horth Carolina 27102. 
Cent lessons 
She Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, on behalf 
°f and under authority delected by the Board of Governors of 
the federal Reserve ISyataa, has approved the application of 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, tfinaton-Salen, North Carolina, 
to establish a branch at tha intersection of ttovis Road end 
«rean Street, Charlotte, Mecklenburg County, Korth Carolina. 
Zu reaching this decision, consideration has bean given to 
the bank e capitalisation and laanageraont, tha convenience and 
assds of tha cccnunity, the competitive situation in the area 
the future prospects of tha branch. 
Authority granted hereby expires one year from the 
«*ta of this letter, frlease advise us whon a definite date 
for opening has been determined and the exset title under 
^ich the branch will operate. 
Yours very truly, 
ihutu 
Kdv. A. Wayne,// 
President. 
y 
'lite:'"-.' 
