PR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 4, 1971 
i • 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
' / i '" i [ 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

14(10 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 4, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
In keeping with customary procedure, and in preparation for 
the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee to be held next 
Tuesday, staff presented a review of domestic and international financial 
developments. Copies of the relevant statistical materials and of the 
individual briefings have been placed in the Board's files. 
Discussion relative to the staff review had to do mainly with 
the indicated substantial rate of growth in the money supply and other 
monetary aggregates for the month of May. Views were exchanged on 
T7 Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1110 
6/4/71 
- 2 -
questions such as possible contributory factors, the likely consequences 
of a monetary policy aimed at reducing the current growth rate of the 
aggregates, and the prospective results of a continued rapid growth, 
should that occur. 
There followed a report on current legislative developments, 
after which the meeting adjourned. 
Secretary 
