MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 25, 1972 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, October 25, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 3:20 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
"Shell" branches. At the meeting on October 3, 1972, when the 
ttoard considered a number of applications for "shell" branches in Nassau 
and in the Cayman Islands, it was understood that a further discussion 
w°uld be held for review and clarification of the issues involved. A 
memorandum of October 17, 1972, from Mr. Bryant was accompanied by a 

3015 
10/25/72 
-2-
number of memoranda that had been prepared over the last two years analyz-
ing or commenting on various aspects of the problem. 
A memorandum from 
Mr. Norwood dated October 20 listed the significant issues that had been 
identified and considered in previous discussions, with references to 
pertinent material in the background papers Mr. Bryant had recirculated. 
At today's meeting the staff presented the pro and con arguments 
delated to the principal issues. 
There ensued a discussion of the tax 
advantages of shell branches. 
The predominant view held that, in the 
absence of objections from the United States Treasury Department or its 
internal Revenue Service, or from foreign governments, there was no reason 
for the Federal Reserve to police the use of tax shelters. 
Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer, however, believed that the use of the Board's regu-
latory power as a vehicle for achieving tax advantages was not appropriate. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the basic policy decision 
should be on banking grounds, with other aspects, such as the tax shelter 
Question, being kept subsidiary. 
He thought that the operation of shell 
branches had the potential of disrupting United States monetary policy 
through combinations of sources and uses of foreign and domestic funds. 
Governor Mitchell assented to an observation that the potential 
adverse effect on monetary policy might arise from full-scale foreign 
Ranches as well as shells. 
However, in his opinion shell branches, which 
W ere exclusively concerned with bringing together foreign sources of funds 

ti'li'JLQ 
10/25/72 
-3-
and matching them with either United States or foreign uses, were more 
vulnerable to abuse than were full-scale foreign branches, which had local 
customers and operations. 
He was concerned that there was not an effective 
surveillance and intelligence system to detect evidence of abuses. 
Discussion of Governor Mitchell's view included citation of 
figures regarding operation of shell branches, after which some members 
of the Board described the amounts involved in the areas of possible abuse 
as minute. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the present monetary climate 
w a s not one to generate abuses, which were more likely to occur during 
credit stringency. 
Other remarks indicated that even during periods of 
Monetary restraint, it appeared that the conditions imposed by the Board 
for approval of shell branches had operated as an effective deterrent to 
abuse. 
Loans by shell branches to United States addressees and transfer 
°f deposits from United States banking offices to shell branches were 
mentioned as areas in which abuses might be likely to occur. A suggestion 
W a s made that a special examining force for shell branch operations might 
Provide effective surveillance, or a member of the Board's staff might be 
designated to specialize in such operations. 
Discussion of the nature and 
frequency of reports received regarding the operation of shell branches 
developed agreement that the Secretary of the Board be requested to bring 
t o the Board's attention any growth, beyond a rate that might be considered 
formal, in the elements of shell branch operations that had special potential 
abuse. 
It was agreed that Governors Mitchell and Brimmer would work 

10/25/72 
- 4 -
with the staff to devise guidelines for alerting the Board to possibly 
significant developments, with authority to act for the Board in adopting 
the surveillance system thus developed. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that the primary question 
was whether shell branches were in fact branches. 
He thought they were 
not, and he doubted that the Board had authority to approve them. 
They 
were merely drawers from which operations were conducted, at least in 
part for the purpose of escaping the restrictions of Regulation D, Reserves 
of Member Banks, and Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. 
If some banks 
were permitted to use such an escape, all banks should be so permitted, 
and the device might as well be operated from United States head offices 
father than to require a dummy office offshore. 
Discussion of the implications of Governor Robertson's suggestion 
led to a request that the staff study the possibility. 
Several members 
of the Board also indicated an interest in the possible development of 
some information on particular aspects of the over-all shell branch 
question. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
