5-67) 
Minutes for 
J u lY 2?> 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Off ice of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

3023 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 27, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Smith, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Golden, Shull, and Wiles of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Maguire, McClintock, and Sanford of the 
Division of Examinations 
Branch application (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval was given 
t o a letter to Lapeer County Bank & Trust Co., Lapeer, Michigan, approv-
e s the establishment of an in-town branch and commenting on the bank's 
CaPital position. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller of 
Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger 
o f Metropolitan Bank, Hollywood, California, into The Bank of California, 
^ational Association, San Francisco, California, was approved for 

i M fy'Cf 
7/27/67 
-2-
transmittal to the Comptroller, Governor Mitchell dissenting. The con-
clusion of the report read as follows: 
The proposed merger of Metropolitan Bank, Los 
Angeles, California, into Bank of California, National 
Association, San Francisco, would eliminate existing 
and potential competition between the two banks and 
would further the concentration of banking resources 
in a few large banks in California. Overall, the 
effect of the proposal on competition would be ad-
verse . 
Governor Mitchell dissented because he considered the conclusion too 
severe. 
Membership dues and contributions (Item No. 2). In December 
1965 the Board furnished to Chairman Patman of the House Banking and 
Currency Committee information he had requested regarding membership 
dues paid and contributions made by each of the Federal Reserve Banks 
and branches and by the Board of Governors from January 1, 1962, 
through September 30, 1965. In a letter of June 13, 1967, Chairman 
Patman requested similar data for the period October 1, 1965, through 
^cember 31, 1966. 
Information relating to such payments by the Board of Governors 
Was attached to a distributed memorandum from the Office of the Control-
dated July 5, 1967. There had also been distributed a memorandum 
dated July 25, 1967, from the Division of Bank Operations commenting on 
e information received from the Federal Reserve Banks. 
After discussion, the Board approved unanimously the transmittal 
Chairman Patman of the listings received from the Reserve Banks and 

8025 
7/27/67 
-3-
the information prepared regarding payments by the Board of Governors. 
A copy of the letter of transmittal is attached as Item No. 2. 
Bank credit cards. Mr. Cardon reported on a conference of 
representatives of the Federal bank supervisory agencies with Senator 
Proxmire, Chairman of the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of 
the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, who had inquired about 
problems seen by the agencies in the operation by banks of credit card 
or check credit plans, his purpose being to determine whether or not to 
hold hearings regarding such activities. 
It had been the Senator's con-
clusion at the end of the confe rence that it would be premature to hold 
hearings at this time. However, he had requested that some indication 
°f the results of the current Federal Reserve credit card study be 
given him by around the first of the year. 
Executive order under Public Information Act (Item No. 3). Mr. 
Hackley referred to earlier discussions at meetings of the Board and 
the Federal Open Market Committee regarding the possibility of obtain-
ing an executive order that would exempt certain Treasury and Federal 
Reserve records from the provisions of the Public Information Act. 
There had now been received from the Bureau of the Budget a draft of 
ar* executive order prepared by the Department of Justice, with the 
assistance of Treasury Department attorneys and in consultation with 
the Board's Legal Division. The proposed order, which was intended to 
meet problems encountered by several Government agencies, did not 

3026 
7/27/67 
-4-
specify the records of any particular agency. However, among the 
records that the draft would permit to be withheld from disclosure were 
"records relating to communications or negotiations with foreign govern-
ments or international organizations" and "records relating to (1) inter-
national transactions in gold or foreign exchange stabilization, or (2) 
monetary or financial dealings with foreign governments or their monetary 
or financial authorities, or with international financial institutions." 
The Bureau of the Budget had asked to be informed whether the Federal 
Reserve still believed that an executive order on this subject was 
essential and, if so, whether the draft order would meet the need. 
Mr. Hackley proposed to prepare a reply that would inform the 
Bureau that such an order was believed necessary to insure the protec-
tion of financial and monetary information that should be kept confiden-
tial in the interest of the foreign policy of the United States. 
Governor Robertson commented that, while he would not object to 
such a letter, he did not feel as strongly as others about the need for 
an executive order. However, if one could be obtained, that would be 
a ll to the good. 
The Board thereupon approved unanimously the sending of a letter 
t° the Bureau of the Budget along the lines described by Mr. Hackley. 
n copy of the let ter subsequently transmitted is attached as Item No. 3. 
Revenue bond underwriting. Mr. Sherman referred to the sugges-
tion by Board members that it might be well to explore the possibility 

8027 
7/27/67 
-5-
that, in addition to groups of commercial bankers and investment 
bankers, representatives of State and local governments be invited to 
present views regarding the question whether commercial banks should be 
permitted to underwrite revenue bonds. Mr. Sherman reported that he had 
been in touch with the offices of several organizations that might have 
an interest in sending representatives. However, it seemed unlikely 
that they would choose to make presentations. 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company. There had been 
distributed, principally under date of July 21, 1967, memoranda from 
the Board's staff and the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago relating 
to the application of The Detroit Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, 
Michigan, to consolidate with Commercial State Bank of Roseville, Rose-
ville, Michigan. 
The memorandum from the Division of Examinations concluded that 
consummation of the proposed consolidation would have a slightly adverse 
effect on competition. Banking convenience and needs in the Roseville 
a r e a would be enhanced to some extent, and the proposal would provide 
°ne solution to the Roseville bank's internal problems, including insuf-
ficient capital, dissension within the bank's board of directors, and a 
lack of managerial depth. Since de novo branching was not permitted in 
^Seville under Michigan law, this was the only means by which a larger 
Detroit bank could operate offices in Roseville. On balance, the Divi-
sion believed that the benefits that would accrue from consummation of 

a 028 
7/27/67 
-6-
the proposed consolidation would more than offset any detrimental 
effects. 
The Banking Markets Section recommended denial, listing the 
following reasons in support of that view: 
(1) Because of the Michigan 
law on branching, the acquisition of the $26 million Roseville bank by 
the $1.5 billion Detroit Bank and Trust Company would give the second 
largest bank in the Detroit area a protected location of importance. 
(2) The consolidation would also tend to discourage entry into the 
Roseville area via new charter, since opportunities for profitable oper-
ations would be actually or potentially foreclosed by the presence of 
the large Detroit bank. 
(3) Since the service areas of the two banks 
overlapped, the merger would remove the competition presently existing 
between them in the course of eliminating a viable banking alternative. 
(4) The effects of an alleged serious management problem at the Rose-
ville bank were not evident in such statistical measures as deposit 
growth and earnings. 
(5) Alternatives to the presently-proposed merger 
appeared to exist that would be somewhat more desirable from a competi-
tive point of view. 
(6) While minor gains in convenience and needs 
might result, there was no evidence that they would be substantial or 
that they would offset the adverse impact on competition. 
The Legal Division, in recommending denial in a memorandum of 
25, stated that it was in substantial agreement with the reasons 
advanced by the Banking Markets Section. 
In the Division's view the 

«'<«i 
^ 
7/27/67 
-7-
proposed consolidation would not result in meaningful benefits from the 
standpoint of convenience and needs. Even if the contrary were true, 
there was no basis for concluding that the asserted beneficial effects 
of the transaction could not be achieved by means that portended sig-
nificantly less detrimental effects for banking competition. The Divi-
sion expressed the view that, if the transaction were approved and con-
summated, it might be successfully challenged in an antitrust proceeding. 
While the impact of the proposed transaction on competition in the Rose-
ville area would be significant in such a proceeding, it was believed 
that the degree of banking concentration in the Detroit metropolitan 
area would also be a factor of significance. 
The Examination Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago recommended approval, but the Research Department recommended 
denial. 
The Comptroller of the Currency concluded in his competitive 
factor report that the effect of the proposed consolidation on competi-
tion would not be adverse. However, the reports of the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation and the Department of Justice were adverse. 
Mr. Sanford summarized the application at today's meeting, after 
which Mr. Solomon commented on certain circumstances that he felt put a 
m°re favorable light on factors that initially appeared adverse. His 
first inclination, he said, had been toward an adverse recommendation, 
it was only after considerable study and analysis that he believed 
a Recommendation of approval was warranted. 

m s 
o 
7/27/67 
-8-
As to the premium being offered--about 7 per cent of deposits--
Mr. Solomon observed that such a premium was not unusual in situations 
where there was office protection, as in Roseville. Further, in this 
case the size of the premium easily could be given too much significance 
because the Roseville bank was undercapitalized. 
Mr. Solomon next noted that the degree of banking concentration 
in Detroit was by no means extraordinary. The top three banks in Detroit 
held about 69 per cent of total deposits. In terms of concentration in 
the three largest banks in each city, Detroit ranked about in the middle 
of the 15 largest standard metropolitan statistical areas in the country. 
The proposed transaction would increase by .3 per cent the proportion of 
deposits held by Detroit Bank and Trust Company, which, though it ranked 
second, was only slightly larger than the third bank. While these con-
centration figures must be given some weight, they should be studied 
cautiously, and one factor having a bearing upon their significance was 
the importance of nonbank competition. The business of both Detroit 
Bank and Trust Company and the Roseville bank was heavily weighted 
toward time deposits, real estate loans, and consumer credit, areas of 
strong competition from nonbank financial institutions. 
On the question of competition between the two participating 
banks, Mr. Solomon pointed out that 92 per cent of the Roseville bank's 
deposits, in both number of accounts and dollar amount, were estimated 
to come from within a 3-mile radius, and about two-thirds to come from 

»..>« ft 
7/27/67 
-9-
within a 1-mile radius. Thus, the business of the bank was highly 
localized. The nearest offices of Detroit Bank and Trust Company, on 
the other hand, obtained less than 3 per cent of their business from 
the Roseville area, principally in the form of real estate or consumer 
loans acquired from dealers. 
Another fact that seemed significant, Mr. Solomon continued, 
was that the Roseville bank had a ratio of loans to deposits of only 
43 per cent, which suggested that the bank was not aggressive in meet-
ing the needs of the community. Moreover, management was unable to 
agree on bringing in new capital or executives, and efforts to conserve 
available capital meant that community needs went unserved. He believed 
there was merit in the Comptroller of the Currency's view that the entry 
°f Detroit Bank would provide more complete banking services for the 
Roseville community. 
Mr. Solomon could not agree with the contention that, because 
Detroit Bank served as correspondent for other banks in the vicinity of 
Roseville, it would be disinclined to compete with those banks if it 
°Perated the present offices of the Roseville bank as branches. While 
correspondent relationship was complicated, it was unreasonable to 
think that, having made the decision to go into Roseville, Detroit Bank 
w°uld refuse to compete with the surrounding banks. 
It had also been claimed that if Detroit Bank took over the 
Rn Seville bank the chances of a new bank being chartered in Roseville 

30112 
7/27/67 
-10-
would be diminished. Mr. Solomon believed this was a matter of opinion. 
He noted that there had been 15 new banks chartered in the Detroit area 
since 1953, and they were doing reasonably well—some outstandingly well. 
Since no new bank had been chartered in Roseville, there seemed to be no 
more reason to expect that one might be started if the present proposal 
were denied than there would be if it were approved. 
Another point advanced in support of denial, Mr. Solomon con-
tinued, was that other merger possibilities would be preferable. Under 
Michigan law no bank could come into Roseville with a de novo branch. 
The only means of entry were to establish a new bank or to acquire Com-
mercial State Bank. That being so, it seemed inevitable that the Rose-
ville bank would sooner or later be merged out of existence. 
In addition 
to Detroit Bank, two other banks had expressed interest in a merger. One 
was the largest in the area--National Bank of Detroit. The finding of 
the Comptroller of the Currency that there was little or no competition 
between Detroit Bank and the Roseville bank would also hold true as 
between the Roseville bank and National Bank of Detroit; this suggested 
that a merger application by National Bank of Detroit might be approved, 
^he other bid had come from Bank of the Commonwealth, fourth in rank in 
the Detroit area but a part of the Parsons group. Of the three possible 
mergers, the proposal of Detroit Bank seemed to him to have the least 
^favorable implications. 

7/27/67 
-11-
Mr. Shay commented that the Legal Division felt there was not 
enough weight in favor of the present application to overbalance the 
adverse implications under the antitrust laws. He expressed concern 
about the views that had been expressed minimizing the import of the 
concentration figures. That question should be considered in terms of 
the structural freeze that could result over the longer run. The exist-
ing degree of banking concentration in a number of cities, including 
Detroit, was one of the factors that had motivated the Congress to 
enact the present bank merger law, and the courts had made clear the 
Principle that when a high degree of concentration exists, even small 
increases should not be permitted. 
Mr. Smith then reviewed in some detail the reasons for the 
adverse recommendation of the Banking Markets Section. This, he said, 
was obviously a case in which it was a matter of weighing judgments on 
the relative importance of the banking factors. In the judgment of the 
Banking Markets Section the slight improvement in terms of convenience 
and needs in the Roseville area would not be sufficient to offset the 
adverse competitive effects. As far as the Section could tell, there 
aPpeared to be competition in the Roseville area between Detroit Bank 
and Commercial State Bank, which competition would of course be elimi-
nated if the merger were consummated. The fact that such competition 
e*isted was indicated by figures in the application and by the survey 
the Chicago Reserve Bank. Further, if one argued that because of 

»( 
m 
7/27/67 
-12-
correspondent relationships there was no active competition between 
Detroit Bank and the Roseville bank, then the take-over of the Roseville 
bank would certainly tend to lessen, if not eliminate, competition with 
other correspondents of Detroit Bank that were now actively competing 
with Commercial State Bank. 
Certainly, Mr. Smith said, the proposed merger would give 
Detroit Bank a dominant position in the Roseville area, a protected 
location under State law. The Section felt that this would discourage 
the establishment of a new bank, and that was the only means of increas-
ing the number of banks in Roseville. The Section had no knowledge of 
a n interest in establishing a new bank in the area, but it would like 
t o see the situation remain as favorable as possible. 
As to convenience and needs, Mr. Smith said the Section saw 
kittle evidence that the situation would be materially improved by the 
merger. The survey by the Reserve Bank indicated that convenience was 
a major factor for customers now dealing with the Roseville bank. The 
availability of a full-service bank would help some customers, but there 
W a s n ° evidence that significant needs were now going unmet. The ser-
vices used by most wholesale and business customers in the area were 
being adequately handled. Detroit Bank and Commercial State Bank had 
similar charges for checking accounts and consumer loans and paid simi-
I a%» 
rates of interest on passbook savings. Detroit Bank had somewhat 
l°wer charges on regular checking accounts, and it offered higher yields 

3 0 3 5 
7/27/67 
-13-
on certificates of deposit. On balance, the merger would seem to change 
the situation very little in the Roseville area. 
Mr. Smith went on to say that the Banking Markets Section 
believed preferable alternatives were available. The deposit growth 
record and the earnings record of the Roseville bank were quite favor-
able, which suggested that there was a real possibility that the bank 
could solve its management problems internally. The Section agreed 
that a merger with the National Bank of Detroit would not be a prefer-
able alternative. However, Bank of the Commonwealth was only about 
half the size of Detroit Bank, and it held a smaller share of the bank-
ing business in the Roseville area. Hence, a merger with that bank 
would appear to be a preferable alternative. Further, the Reserve Bank 
investigation indicated that the St. Clair Shores National Bank had evi-
denced some interest in a possible merger. Accordingly, if the present 
application were denied, there appeared to be alternative possibilities 
if Commercial State Bank was still determined to follow the merger route. 
Mr. Solomon expressed doubt that the St. Clair Shores National 
Bank, with about $16 million in deposits, would be a logical candidate 
t o take over the Roseville bank, with deposits of about $26 million and 
somewhat inadequate management. Also, the St. Clair Shores bank and the 
Roseville bank were in more direct competition with each other than the 
Roseville bank and Detroit Bank and Trust Company. 

3036 
7/27/67 
-14-
The members of the Board then stated their tentative views 
regarding the application, beginning with Governor Mitchell, who said 
that although the case was close, he agreed with the analysis of the 
Division of Examinations. 
It appeared to him that the nature of the 
community had some bearing on the matter. Roseville had a population 
of around 60,000, with a relatively low average income. There were 
only 3 banking offices, and the ratio of one office for 20,000 people 
was far out of line with other Michigan communities. Although the scar-
city of banking offices in Roseville was compensated for in part by the 
number of banks in the periphery, the figures suggested that the Rose-
ville bank had not provided sufficient facilities. Admittedly, this 
was not the most attractive banking area; the average size of the 
accounts of individuals, partnerships, and corporations was only about 
half of the average for the Detroit area generally. Thus, there were 
explanations of why the Roseville bank had not provided more adequate 
service to its community, but they did not justify the full extent of 
the deficiency. 
Governor Mitchell went on to say that while Detroit Bank and 
Trust Company was the second largest bank in Detroit it was not notably 
a8gressive. Real estate loans represented about 40 per cent of its 
total, and half that percentage would be more typical of the weekly 
rePorting member bank group. Its instalment credit portfolio also was 
lar 
arge, while its business loan portfolio was relatively small, and it 

m:i7 
7/27/67 
-15-
relied heavily on time deposits. Altogether, it was not typical of 
most large city banks. 
Governor Mitchell agreed with Mr. Solomon's view that a merger 
of the Roseville bank with Detroit Bank and Trust Company would be pref 
erable to a merger of the bank into a member of the Parsons group of 
banks. On the matter of competition, he pointed out that it must be 
recognized that Michigan law in effect thwarts competition in many 
localities. At the same time, he did not believe the Detroit area 
should be characterized as lacking in competition or as having an exces 
sive concentration of banking resources. There was keen competition 
within the banking system, and between the banks and savings and loan 
associations. However, the more significant area for present purposes 
was Roseville. Figures supplied by the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration indicated that the bank that would result from the proposed 
merger would have 12.8 per cent of the deposits in the Roseville bank's 
trade area, compared with 18.6 per cent for National Bank of Detroit, 
18.1 per cent for Manufacturers National Bank, and 11.7 per cent for 
Michigan Bank, National Association. 
It did not appear from these fig-
U r es that a serious competitive imbalance would emerge. Over all, whil< 
t^e considerations were close, there seemed to be some advantages to 
Replacing the Roseville management with a better-run bank that would 
enable people to obtain full banking services right in the community 
Rather than having to go outside for them. While there was some com-
petition between the two participating banks that would be eliminated, 

8 0 3 R 
7/27/67 
-16-
there would be enough competition from other banking offices so that 
this particular aspect was outweighed by the advantages of the proposed 
merger. 
Governor Maisel agreed that the case was close and said he con-
curred with much of the analysis presented by the Division of Examina-
tions and Governor Mitchell. Yet his inclination was to vote against 
the application, because he believed it was necessary to use a longer 
time horizon. Given the Michigan banking law, the main problem to be 
dealt with was what the banking structure of the area would be in 5 or 
10 years rather than in 3 to 6 months. That was the whole background 
°f the bank merger legislation; the Congress was concerned with the 
long-term trend. In the long-term view, it seemed clear that it was 
desirable to leave as many banking choices as possible, unless strong 
banking or convenience and need factors outweighed that objective. Here 
there were two broad possibilities, one of which would be for the Rose-
ville bank to remain in existence. While it might not be the best bank 
in the world, it afforded a banking alternative. The record indicated 
that people in the community were aware of their alternative sources of 
service and were using them. As to the possibility of a merger of the 
Roseville bank with National Bank of Detroit, he did not believe the 
Board should be motivated by what some other supervisory authority 
might do; that was the least common denominator approach. The basic 
^estion here seemed to be whether the banking structure would be better 

3 0 8 9 
7/27/67 
-17-
if th is merger proposal were turned down, and his conclusion was that 
it would be. 
Governor Brimmer said he too felt that the application should 
be denied. Although the point Governor Mitchell had made about the 
average income level of the Roseville community had merit, better 
banking services could be provided through alternative means. The Rose-
ville bank could improve its management if it so desired, and that factor 
therefore was not overriding. Moreover, if the directors could not agree 
among themselves, it was not incumbent upon the Board to solve their dif-
ficulties in the face of anticompetitive considerations. Also, while the 
Board should not try to work out alternatives, there seemed to be possi-
bilities of other mergers that were more attractive. He saw nothing 
wrong with a combination of the Roseville bank with St. Clair Shores 
National Bank, which might enable a strengthening of management, and a 
merger with Commonwealth Bank also seemed to offer possibilities. Com-
monwealth, while smaller than Detroit Bank, could deal with the Rose-
ville situation within the context of its total operations without undue 
strain. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that he was favorable to the merger. 
Governor Robertson said he would oppose the application. The 
views that had been expressed by the Banking Markets Section, the Legal 
division, and the research staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Seemed to him persuasive. 

7/27/67 
-18-
Chairman Martin indicated that his attitude was favorable. His 
first inclination had been toward an adverse position, but further care-
ful study had brought him to believe that the prospective over-all 
improvement to the Roseville community and the public interest, which 
he thought should be the controlling consideration, pointed toward 
approval. His analysis was essentially the same as that of Governor 
Mitchell and the Division of Examinations. 
Chairman Martin then asked whether, in view of the fact that 
the Board appeared to be evenly divided, action should be deferred 
until all members could participate. 
In the ensuing discussion it was pointed out that an evenly-
divided vote would be tantamount to disapproval. If such a vote were 
announced, it could be expected that a request by the applicant for 
reconsideration would follow. Thus, deferral of action until all mem-
bers of the Board were available would not delay eventual disposition 
°f the case. 
Action on the application was thereupon deferred until all 
members of the Board could participate in the decision. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Conference Room 
adjoining the Board Room, with the same attendance by members of the 
Board. Also present were Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, 
Messrs. Roy F. Larson, William H. Livingston, Jr., and Charles F. Ward, 
Jr 
r«> of the architectural firm of Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson, 

3041 
7/27/67 
-19-
and, from the Board's staff, Messrs. Sherman, Kenyon, Kakalec, and 
Kern, and Mrs. Semia. 
Annex building. The architects displayed sketches and diagrams 
showing alternative treatments of several aspects of the Board's pro-
posed annex building, and distributed a resume of additional costs 
attributable to the alternative arrangements. 
The principal revisions reflected the unwillingness of the Fine 
Arts Commission to approve a previous design that included a penthouse 
floor to house mechanical equipment. The revised design contemplated 
reducing the penthouse structure to a minimum and relocating the bulk 
°f the mechanical equipment below ground. Substantial additional cost 
would be involved in the substitute arrangement because of engineering 
and construction problems arising from deeper excavation and because 
mechanical equipment would be transferred to a less efficient location 
from a structural standpoint. 
Discussion resulted in a consensus that the Fine Arts Commission 
should be informed of the substantial added expense that would be 
involved and that, if the Commission remained unwilling to approve the 
Previous design, further consideration should be given by the Board to 
Possible alternatives. 
Another presentation by the architects related to the feasibil-
ity of placing all eating facilities, including those in the present 
building, in the annex. 

7/27/67 
-20-
3042 
After discussion, it was understood that a decision regarding 
such an arrangement would be deferred pending further consideration at 
another meeting of the Board. 
The architects also displayed preliminary sketches for the 
design of a fountain and its immediate surroundings in the triangle to 
the east of the proposed annex building. On the basis of various com-
ments and suggestions, the architects were requested to develop addi-
tional possibilities. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish an additional branch in 
the Dominican Republic, to be located in 
Santiago de los Caballeros. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of International Finance dated 
July 26, 1967, recommending that Lyle E. Gramley, Associate Adviser 
in the Division of Research and Statistics, whose travel to Mexico 
during the period July 24-August 4, 1967, to lecture at the Center 
tor Latin American Monetary Studies was previously approved, be 
authorized to remain in Mexico City during the week of August 7-12 
t o Permit him to attend a seminar on "Inflation and Its Problems" 
sPonsored by the Employers Confederation of the Mexican Republic, 
lf> in his judgment and that of the American Embassy, his partici-
Pstlon would serve a useful purpose. 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
uly 27, 1967, recommending that the grade progression for clerk-
typists be extended by one grade from FR-3 to FR-4 upon attainment 
the necessary requirements, as prescribed by the Division of Per-
sonnel Administration, subject to recommendation by the employing 
division. 

7/27/67 
-21-
804 r* 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Niles Wusterbarth as Summer Assistant assigned to the Office of 
the Secretary, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effec-
tive August 1, 1967. 
Mae K. Cohen as Records Clerk, Office of the Secretary, with basic 
annual salary at the rate of $5,096, effective September 5, 1967. 
Kenneth Aaronson as Computer Operator (Trainee), Division of Data 
Processing, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,096, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
James T. Clark as Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Peggy Elizabeth Horner as Summer Trainee, Division of Administra-
tive Services, with compensation at the rate of $1.40 per hour, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Juanita Mae Livingston as Cafeteria Helper, Division of Adminis-
trative Services, with annual salary at the rate of $1,927 (4-hour day), 
effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Mary Ellen Miller, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $5,331 to $5,867 per annum, effective July 30, 1967. 
Joel Sarfati, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, from 
$7,957 to $9,221 per annum, effective July 30, 1967. 
On July 27, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 

7/27/67 
-22-
it 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
pw 
i f,»i; • 
Letter to Peapack-Gladstone Bank, Gladstone, 
New Jersey, approving the establishment of a 
branch in the Borough of Far Hills, Somerset 
County. 
_By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in Porterville. 
8044 
Item No, 
— S e c r e t a r y 
J 

Item No. 1 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
7/27/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R I B I OFFICIAL C O R R E B P Q N O I N C I 
TO T H E B O A R D 
July 27, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
Lapeer County Bank & 
Trust Co., 
Lapeer, Michigan. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System approves the establishment by Lapeer County Bank & 
Trust Co., Lapeer, Michigan, of a branch at the inter-
section of Pine and Clay Streets, Lapeer, Michigan, 
provided the branch is established within six months 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board notes your bank's capital position 
is less than satisfactory and urges that action be taken 
to strengthen the capital structure so that continued 
growth of your bank will be on a sound basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

304 6 
•-oOfCOlfcV. 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
Item No. 2 
7/27/67 
B 
mw--
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5Y5TEM 
WASHINGTON, Q. C. 
2 Q 5 5 I 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
July 27, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 20515. 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
As requested in your letter of June 13, 
1967, enclosed are listings of all dues and contribu-
tions made by each of the Federal Reserve Banks, their 
Branches, and the Board of Governors for the period 
October 1, 1965, through December 31, 1966. 
Sincerely yours 
i' 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 
Enclosure 

'•f^Lit^f. 
<t 
K.J 
b o a r d 
o f 
g o v e r n o r s 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 2Q5SI 
Item No. 3 
7/27/67 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
July 27, 1967. 
The Honorable Charles L. Schultze, Director, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Schultze: 
1
 
T h i s refers to Mr. Focke's letter of July 26, 1967 
Sf1hf 1S\?| d r; fJ ° f ^ 
E X G C U t i v e 0 r d e r regarding i n d e n t a t i o n 
t hp r 
^formation Act (5 U.S.C. 552) and asking whether 
*he Board of Governors still believes that such an Executive 
Ztt\i 3i 6 S S e n t i ? 1 a n d> i f so> whether the enclosed draft would 
meet this agency's needs. 
1QA7 
• • A? i " d i c a t e d i n t h e letter addressed to you on June 19, 
of t L 3 * 
/ / n t h e S e c r e t a r y o f t h e Treasury and the Vice Chairman 
the S L 
i n! 
G ° V G r ° r S ' t h G r e C ° r d s ° f t h e B o a r d o f Governors and 
moneL 
^
^ 
^ " u C 0 r a n i t t e e c o n t a i " considerable financial and 
monetary information that clearly requires protection from disclosure 
B a
 
C i f e ! e 8 t ° f t h e f° r e iS n P° l i cy o f t h e United States. The 
E
x
p
^ 
? ^ ^ 
M a r k e t Committee continue to believe that an 
The drnff f f 
i S n e c e s s a r y i n o r d e ^ to insure such protection, 
appear f k 
E * e c ^ v e °rder enclosed with Mr. Focke's letter would 
PPear to be adequate to meet the needs of the Federal Reserve in 
llls respect. 
Sincerely yours, 
:. i; 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr, 
V 

. 
8048 
** '»">*.«.»w.«m 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL, RESERVE S A N K OF N E W YORK 
7/27/67 
( 
siEW VORK, NEW VORK ?Q045 
July 2 ? , 1967* 
Qqgt&Q H . Jor&lns 
.President 
^ ^ p a c k - G l a d s t o n e B o n k 
Oloactono, Row Jorcioy 0793^ 
Boar Hr» Jenkins1 
^ 
On behalf of tho Board of Governors of tho Federal 
^oorve Gyoton, tho Pedoral Eosorvo Tiaafc of How York, acting 
l^iar delegated authority, approves tho establishment by Paapach-
p-'-V\utoao Bank of a 'branch on Diuont Head, two blocks north of 
Route 202 cad cno bloc J; east of County Route 
Borough 
Ihr 11*113, SoaOrcat County, Hsw Jersey, provided tho branch 
2,0 y^tabXishod within one year froa the date of this Xottor« 
Mo chalX appreciate your advising uo when tho branch io 
established and opened for business, giving tho e££ec~ 
date of opening, tho namo, if any, by which it viXX to known, 
tho official postal address, including tho aip code misibor. 
Please aeknowledGQ receipt by signing and returning to 
wo tho enclosed copy of this lotter. 
v 
Very truly yours. 
Px-ed V. Pi dor it j Jr 
jcu. 
Vico President 
^ U / 
U r e 

! 
. • ' 
v>-;;fv!; ^'-K '.v.: , 
•44- • 
"i£ DIES R A T ; tl.Ii'.BHiRYW J 3 A N K O F O A N 
i< ' R A i ^ C I B O O 
'J * v,' «'r-i * . •
/
« 
« y 
^ 
July 
1967 
Item No. 5 
7/27/67 
Mr. Hal 1-iendon, 
Senior Executive Vice President, 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
De.ir Mr, Mendon: 
/ 
On behalf of the Board\of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, «ctiny_j.incier dcle^ate4-Authority, this Bank 
has approved aa e^ensiorN;o February 25, 1963, of the time 
witlrin which United California BsnkSjay establish a branch 
office in the yicinity of th^ intersection of State Highway 
65 and Henderson Avenue, CityJof Portervilie, Tulare County, 
Tills exVcjision >/granted in connection with the 
request contained in your letter dated July 25, 19<V7. 
f 
i 
/ j 
Very truly yours, 
'signed) Irsrin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
