FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
September 29, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
M
L 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

* tt-f t*} 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 29, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Slocum, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

* * 1 ' > * > 
9/29/70 
-2-
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by members of the Board 
at meetings held on September 18, 22, 24, and 25, 1970, as recorded in 
the minutes of those meetings, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Northwest Ohio Bancshares. The Board authorized the issuance 
of an order and statement reflecting approval, on September 16, 1970, 
of the application of Northwest Ohio Bancshares, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of The 
Toledo Trust Company, Toledo, Ohio, and The First National Bank of 
Findlay, Findlay, Ohio. Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached 
under Item No. 1. 
M & S Bancorp. After review of documentation that had been dis-
tributed, the Board unanimously approved the application of M 6c S 
Bancorp, Janesville, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of Merchants and Savings Bank and Bank of Janes-
ville, both of Janesville. The Board authorized the issuance of an 
order and statement reflecting this decision in the form attached under 
Item No. 2. 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company. Documentation regarding 
the application of The Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, Hartford, 

£734 
9/29/70 
-3-
Connecticut, to merge The North Side Bank and Trust Company, Bristol, 
Connecticut, included memoranda dated September 22, 1970, in which the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval and the 
Banking Markets Section recommended denial. 
During discussion of the application, some members expressed 
interest in confirming whether, as indicated by the Research Department 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, the Bristol bank had received 
merger offers from other banks. Any merger with an out-of-town bank 
would remove home office protection from Bristol, and it was noted that 
Connecticut Bank and Trust Company was one of the State's two largest 
commercial banks. 
Accordingly, action on the application was deferred to obtain 
further information on whether other merger offers had in fact been made. 
American Bank and Trust Company. After review of documentation 
that had been distributed, the application of American Bank and Trust 
Company, Lansing, Michigan, to consolidate with The National Bank of 
Eaton Rapids, Eaton Rapids, Michigan, was denied, Governor Sherrill 
dissenting. It was understood that an order and statement reflecting 
this decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, along 
with a dissenting statement that would spell out Governor Sherrill's 
position. 
Silver coin as reserves. Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, 
at present permits counting as reserves "currency and coin owned and held 

9/29/70 
-4-
by a member bank." The price of silver had risen in recent years to a 
point higher than the face value of most coins containing silver, and 
the Treasury's withdrawal from circulation of coins containing silver 
had enhanced the numismatic value of such coins. A number of individ-
uals or dealers had entered into various arrangements in which silver 
coin was held for them by a bank, in storage, as collateral for loans, 
or under repurchase agreement, and the question arose whether banks 
should be able to count such coin as part of their reserves. 
Pursuant 
to action on June 2, 1970, the Board published for comment a proposed 
amendment to Regulation D that would have revised the definition of 
the term "currency and coin" to exclude, for reserve purposes, coin 
held principally for its bullion or numismatic value. The time for 
submission of comments was twice extended, and material now distributed 
for Board consideration included the following: 
(1) A memorandum dated September 17, 1970, from 
the Legal Division summarizing comments received on the 
proposal and suggesting possible courses of action. 
The 
Division recommended that the Board not adopt the pro-
posal, but instead publish an interpretation designed to 
exclude from reserve computation any currency and coin 
held under customer agreements whereby the bank does not 
acquire the full and unrestricted right to use such cur-
rency and coin at any time to meet depositors' claims. 
(2) A memorandum dated September 16, 1970, from 
the Division of Research and Statistics indicating that 
the practice in question apparently was not widespread 
enough to present a significant reserve adjustment prob-
lem for the banking system as a whole. 
(3) A memorandum dated September 8, 1970, from 
the Division of International Finance, which indicated 
that no significant policy problems would result from 
the amendment. 

* V-CW". 
t J o 
9/29/70 
-5-
(4) A memorandum from the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation dated September 10, 1970, suggesting that 
compliance with the proposed change by most banks could 
reasonably be expected and no insurmountable supervisory 
problems need be anticipated. 
Discussion indicated a tentative view in favor of publishing 
an interpretation along lines recommended by the Legal Division. 
The 
apparent legislative intent of Congress in passing the 1959 Act under 
which authority was given for including coin in required reserves was 
reviewed, as well as the terms in which the Board had implemented that 
authority. It was brought out that the silver market was now in a 
transitional stage, with the Treasury scheduled to discontinue sales of 
silver in November; this suggested that a purpose might be served if no 
action were taken by the Board until after the Treasury's withdrawal 
from the market. 
It was agreed, therefore, that the matter would be given further 
consideration in November. 
Consumer Protection Act. Chairman Magnuson of the Senate Commit-
tee on Commerce had requested views on whether the interests of consumers 
and the public would be served by an amendment to S. 3201, the Consumer 
Protection Act of 1970, exempting services provided by banks, savings 
and loan associations, and credit unions. The exemption had been pro-
posed by the Consumer Bankers Association. In a memorandum dated Sep-
tember 24, 1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 

* \ 
9/29/70 
-6-
expressing the view that the exemption should be limited to those banks, 
savings and loan associations, and credit unions that are Federally-
insured, and therefore subject to Federal supervision. 
Discussion centered around the question whether banks and other 
financial institutions should be exempt from class actions for redress 
of alleged injuries resulting from unfair consumer practices, and whether 
they were in fact more vulnerable to such suits than other businesses. 
Another question was whether an exemption based on the fact that insti-
tutions were subject to Federal supervision was warranted. 
A number 
of changes in the language of the draft letter were suggested, and at 
the conclusion of the discussion the Board approved the sending of a 
reply to Chairman Magnuson in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
American International Bank. In a memorandum dated September 10, 
1970, the Division of Supervision and Regulation presented the applica-
tion of American International Bank, New York, New York, to amend its 
articles of association to increase its capital and issue new stock to 
be sold to Industrial National Bank of Rhode Island, Providence, Rhode 
Island; LaSalle National Bank, Chicago, Illinois; and First National 
Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota. On May 22, 1970, the Board 
had issued an advisory opinion that it would not be appropriate for First 
National Bank of Minneapolis to acquire shares of American International 
Bank if First National Bank of St. Paul, Minnesota, were at the time 

9/29/70 
-7-
holding shares of Allied Bank International (the only other multi-bank 
New York Edge corporation). First National Bank of Minneapolis now 
asked that that opinion be reconsidered. The Division recommended 
approval of the increase in capital and the inclusion of Industrial 
National Bank of Rhode Island and LaSalle National Bank as shareholders, 
but saw no reason for the Board to reverse its position with respect to 
First National Bank of Minneapolis. 
Governor Brimmer, in a memorandum dated September 28, 1970, 
directed attention to the principles of the VFCR program applying to 
the American International Bank application and suggested that any 
letter of approval include a paragraph of clarification. 
Discussion developed a consensus in favor of approving the 
application with respect to the Providence and Chicago banks, but of 
considering the question regarding First National Bank of Minneapolis 
when additional members of the Board could participate. 
A letter to American International Bank was then approved 
unanimously in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Report on competitive factors. Approval was given to a report, 
for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Jamestown Sav-
ings and Loan Association, Jamestown, New York, into Buffalo Savings 
Bank, Buffalo, New York. The conclusion read as follows: 

9/29/70 
-8-
While consummation of the proposed merger of Buffalo 
Savings Bank and Jamestown Savings and Loan Association 
would eliminate a small amount of competition, the poten-
tial for greater competition between them is limited by 
the factors of distance and statutory restrictions. 
Overall 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that it would have been 
more accurate to describe the competitive effect as "adverse." 
Data services. In a memorandum dated September 15, 1970, the 
Divisions of Data Processing and Research and Statistics recommended 
that certain services be obtained from Data Resources, Inc. Some of 
the services eventually would be available from the Board's own instal-
lat ion, but the recommended contracts would provide them in the interim. 
Specifically, the services would include (1) a macro data bank consisting 
of about 4,000 economic time series; (2) a set of programs for manipulat-
ing either data in the DRI data bank or data supplied by the user; (3) 
interactive use of the DRI computer on a time-sharing basis; and (4) a 
quarterly econometric model. Use of these services would necessitate 
the rental of certain equipment by the Board. Expenses were estimated 
at $64,000 for the year 1971, and the Divisions requested approval to 
proceed with the arrangements beginning October 1, 1970. Expenses for 
the fourth quarter of 1970 were estimated at $8,000, and approval of 
this overexpenditure in the pertinent accounts of the 1970 budget of 
the Division of Data Processing was requested. 

2V40 
9/29/70 
-9-
After a discussion of the advantages expected from the proposed 
arrangements, the Board authorized the plans described and approved the 
related overexpenditure in the 1970 budget. 
At this point or earlier all members of the staff withdrew except 
Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Leonard, Partee, and Johnson, and Mrs. Semia. 
Officer salary guidelines. Members of the Board had been fur-
nished a draft of letter to Federal Reserve Bank Chairmen and Presidents 
regarding officer salary guidelines for 1971. The draft stated that it 
seemed appropriate to revise the 5 per cent across-the-board guide that 
had been followed in 1970 to 6 per cent for 1971. However, Banks using 
that procedure would be expected to confine their merit adjustments, 
other than those accompanying promotions, to a very limited number of 
officers. As an alternative, Banks could choose to recommend merit 
increases for not more than 50 per cent of the officer staff. 
Governor Daane stated that he and Governor Brimmer expected to 
meet with President Galusha, at the latter's request, regarding salary 
policy. He questioned whether the proposed letter should be sent before 
that conference. Mr. Galusha, it was noted, presumably wanted to convey 
a recommendation of the Presidents that would permit 6 per cent across-
the-board increases along with merit increases for 50 per cent of the 
officers. 

2711 
9/29/70 
-10-
After some discussion of the problems involved in devising 
acceptable guidelines, it was agreed to defer sending a letter until 
after the meeting with President Galusha had been held. 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, Division of 
International Finance, then rejoined the meeting. 
Bank and Fund meetings. Governor Daane commented on the 
recent annual meetings of the International Monetary Fund and the 
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, held in Copen-
hagen, and Chairman Burns requested that Mr. Solomon prepare a memoran-
dum regarding aspects of the meetings for distribution to the members 
of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

2712 
Item No. 1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
9/29/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
NORTHWEST OHIO BANCSHARES, INC.,
 
1 
Toledo, Ohio, 
' 
for approval of action to become a bank
 1 
holding company through the acquisition ' 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
' 
shares of The Toledo Trust Company,
 
1 
Toledo, Ohio, and The First National
 
1 
Bank of Findlay, Findlay, Ohio. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Northwest Ohio 
Bancshares, Inc., Toledo, Ohio, for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The 
Toledo Trust Company, Toledo, Ohio, and The First National Bank of 
Findlay, Findlay, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of recaipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 

tC f >13 
- 2 -
and to the Superintendent of Banks of the State of Ohio, and requested 
their views and recommendations. The Superintendent recommended approval 
of the application, and the Comptroller responded that the proposed 
acquisition would not have an adverse competitive effect. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 23, 1970 (35 Federal Register 11835), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors September 
29,1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Maisel. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

O M V t 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
NORTHWEST OHIO BANCSHARES, INC., TOLEDO, OHIO, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Northwest Ohio Bancshares, Inc., Toledo, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action 
to become a registered bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Toledo Trust Company, 
Toledo, Ohio ("Toledo Trust"), and The First National Bank of Findlay, 
Findlay, Ohio ("Findlay Bank"). 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorities. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency and the 
Superintendent of Banks of the State of Ohio, and requested their views 
and recommendations. The Superintendent recommended approval of the 
application, and the Comptroller responded that the proposed acquisition 
would not have an adverse competitive effect. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 

1t— 
4 'tO 
- 2 -
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into consideration 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - The ten largest 
banking organizations in Ohio, which include five bank holding companies, 
control 47 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. 1/ 
Through consummation of the proposal, Applicant would become the 
eleventh largest banking organization and the sixth largest of the eight 
bank holding companies in Ohio, with 2.3 per cent of State-wide deposits. 
Toledo Trust ($413 million deposits) operates 14 offices, all in 
the Toledo metropolitan area. It is the largest of 11 banks competing 
in its market (population 500,000), consisting of all of Lucas County 
1/ Banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect all holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date. 

t b 
-3-
and the extreme northern portion of Wood County, and holds 42 per cent 
of market deposits. Its largest competitor has 18 offices and controls 
21 per cent of market deposits. 
Findlay Bank ($61 million deposits) operates its three 
offices in Findlay, the county seat of Hancock County, the relevant 
market (population 39,000); it is the largest of six banks in this 
area. Two of its competitors, one of which has an application pending 
for affiliation with the State's second largest bank holding company, 
are located in the Findlay area; the three other banks in the market 
are small, rural community banks. 
Although each of the proposed subsidiaries is the largest bank 
in its market, consummation of the proposal will not have a substantial 
adverse effect 
on competition. The two banks are located approximately 
50 miles apart, and there is no overlap of their market areas. 
Lucas 
County and Hancock County are separated by Wood County, in which 26 banking 
offices are located. These considerations also limit the potential for 
future competition between the subject banks; under Ohio law, neither 
bank is permitted to establish branches in the County in which the other 
is located. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposed transaction would not result in a monopoly, 
nor be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any part of the United States and 

0 'Y7 
-4-
would not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's management is competent, its financial condition is 
satisfactory, and its prospects, which are dependent upon those of 
its proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
Toledo Trust and Findlay Bank both are in good condition, with 
competent managements,and have favorable prospects. 
The Board concludes that considerations relating to the 
banking factors, as they relate to Applicant and its proposed subsidiaries, 
are consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the Toledo area are generally being adequately served 
at the present time, and the proposal would principally benefit the area 
served by Findlay Bank. Findlay, a prosperous retail and industrial city, 
has had rapid growth accompanied by increasing credit needs. 
Toledo 
Trust has excess lending capacity which could be used, under the proposal 
to help meet these needs. In addition, trust services, which are not now 
available from any bank operating in Hancock County, would be instituted 
by Findlay Bank, and the international banking services of Toledo Trust 
would be made available to business concerns in the community, many of 
which engage in international business. 
Considerations regarding the convenience and needs of the 
communities involved lend some weight toward approval of the application. 

2748 
-5-
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
September 29, 1970. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA
 
I t e m 
N o • 
9/29/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
M & S BANCORP, 
Janesville, Wisconsin, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of Merchants and Savings Bank and 
Bank of Janesville, both of Janesville, 
Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by M & S Bancorp. Janesville, 
Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
would become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 30 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Merchants and Savings Bank and 
Bank of Janesville, both of Janesville, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Wisconsin, and requested his views and recom-
mendation. The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the 
application. 

<' i O i l 
- 2 -
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on August 4, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12434), which 
provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 29 , 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governors llaisel and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

t a>l 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
M & S BANCORP, JANESVILLE, WISCONSIN, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
M & S Bancorp, Janesville, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), has filed 
with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company, through the acquisition of GO per cent or more of the 
voting shares of Merchants and Savings Bank ("Merchants Bank") and 
Bank of Janesville ("Janesville Bank"), both of Janesville, Wisconsin. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of 
receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking of the State 
of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. The Commissioner 
offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 

o ^ r o 
- 2 -
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the 
probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and 
needs of the communities to be served. In each case, the Board is 
required to take into consideration the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the bank holding company and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to 
be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 
10 largest banking organizations in the State of Wisconsin are 
Wisconsin-based registered bank holding c o m p a n i e s w h i c h control 
2 / 
total deposits of $3.4 billion,- 
representing 39.3 per cent of the 
deposits held by all banks in the State, Acquisition by Applicant 
of Merchants Bank ($37 million deposits) and Janesville Bank ($8 
million deposits) would result in its becoming Wisconsin's twenty-
third largest banking organization and the thirteenth largest of 
fourteen bank holding companies in the State; it would control less 
than 1 per cent of the State's total deposits. 
1/ 
In addition, three holding companies headquartered in Minnesota 
have subsidiary banks in Wisconsin. 
2/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1969, adjusted to reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 
date. 

2753 
- 3 -
Both of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in 
Janesville, a city of 35,000 in Rock County, Wisconsin. Merchants 
Bank's main office is located in the downtown business section of 
the city; its only branch is located to the south just outside the 
corporate limits. Janesville Bank's only office is located in a 
shopping center in the northeast section of the city, approximately 
two miles from the main office of Merchants Bank. The area served 
by Merchants Bank includes the entire city, and encompasses the 
area served by Janesville Bank. Merchants Bank and Janesville Bank 
are, respectively, the largest and fifth largest of the six banks 
in Janesville and the third and seventh largest of Rock County's 
17 banks. 
The six Janesville banks represent three banking groups, 
each of which has two closely related banks. Applicant's group 
holds $45 million in deposits; the two other groups have deposits 
of $30 million and $26 million, respectively. The two proposed 
subsidiary banks have been closely associated since Janesville Bank 
was organized by officers, directors, and shareholders of Merchants 
Bank in 1961, at a time when Wisconsin laws did not permit branching. 
Merchants Bank provided Janesville Bank with personnel and earnings 
assets, and has continued its assistance during the entire period 
of Janesville Bank's operations. The extent of con.tr.on ownership has 
increased since Janesville Bank was organized, and at the present 
time shareholders common to both banks hold about 57 per cent of the 

2754 
- 4 -
stock of Janesville Bank, and 47 per cent of the stock of Merchants 
Bank. In addition, there is an interlocking officer and director 
relationship between the banks which has existed since 1961. 
Because of this close relationship no meaningful competition 
exists between the subject banks, and it appears likely that such 
relationships will continue regardless of the Board's action on the 
present application. It is unlikely that any undue effects on 
competing banks will result from formalization of the relationship 
under the corporate structure proposed. 
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of this proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
not restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant was recently organized and has not engaged in any business 
activities to date. Its projected financial condition is satisfactory, 
its management is competent, and its prospects, which would be de-
pendent upon those of its two proposed subsidiaries, appear favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Merchants Bank 
are satisfactory, and its prospects are regarded as favorable. The 
financial condition of Janesville Bank is generally satisfactory, 
and would be strengthened by additional capital which Applicant proposes 

- 5 -
to provide on consummation of its proposal. Management of the bank 
is competent, and its prospects appear favorable. 
All considerations regarding the banking factors are 
consistent with approval of the application, and the somewhat 
greater 
facility of Applicant for raising additional capital as needed by 
the banks provides some weight in support of such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
major banking needs of the Janesville area appear to be adequately 
served by present banking facilities and would not be significantly 
affected by consummation of Applicant's proposal, particularly in the 
light of present cooperative efforts of the subject banks. However, 
consummation of the proposal would to some extent facilitate that 
cooperation, which has been beneficial to the community. As a result, 
Janesville Bank would offer a broader range of services than it 
presently makes available. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
relevant areas are consistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
September 29, 1970. 

Item No. 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
9/29/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2055I 
September 30, 1970 
The Honorable Warren G. Magnuson 
Chairman 
Committee on Commerce 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. 
Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your letter of August 20, 1970, in 
which you ask for our judgment whether the interests of 
consumers and the public would be served under an amendment 
of S. 3201 proposed by the Consumer Bankers Association to 
exempt services provided by banks, savings and loan associ-
ations, and credit unions. 
We have given careful consideration to the proposed legislation, 
your Committee's report, and the statement of the Consumer 
Bankers Association. 
It is our judgment that the kinds of 
fraudulent practices that S. 3201 seeks to correct (as indicated 
in the bill and the committee report) are not prevalent among 
financial institutions regulated and supervised by Federal 
agencies. 
Weighing, on the one hand, the need to protect 
consumers against such practices and, on the other hand, the 
need to maintain the financial soundness of banks in order to 
protect depositors and the public generally, we doubt that 
it would be in the public interest to subject these financial 
institutions to class actions as provided in this bill. 
The need 
to maintain public confidence in financial institutions makes 
them vulnerable to suits brought in hope of a settlment out 
of court. 

The Honorable Warren G. Magnuson 
- 2 -
We suggest that the exemption be worded to exclude "any-
financial institutions insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation, the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance 
Corporation, or the Administrator of the National Credit 
Union Administration. " 
The additional wording proposed above would modify the 
amendment proposed by the Consumer Bankers Association 
by limiting the exemption to banks, savings and loan 
associations, and credit unions which are under Federal 
supervision. 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F. 
Burns 

2758 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
9/29/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
f^ALK^T' 
September 30, 1970 
American International Bank 
120 Broadway, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen 
As requested in your letters of June 8, July 24 and 30, 1970, 
the Board of Governors approves the amendment of Article SEVENTH of 
your Corporation's Articles of Association so the relevant portions 
read as follows: 
"SEVENTH. The authorized capital stock of this corporation 
shall consist of: (a) 50,000 shares of $100 par value Common 
Stock ("the Common Stock") which shall be issued and fully 
paid in from time to time upon call of the Board of Direc-
tors, subject to the provisions of Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act and of the consent obtained thereunder 
from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; 
and (b) 10,500 shares of $12.9375 Preferred Stock, having 
a par value of $100 per share ("the Preferred Stock"). 
"The voting powers, preferences and relative . . . except 
where such notice or vote is required by law. 
"Until this Article SEVENTH is further amended, the names 
of the stockholders and their respective holdings of Capi-
tal Stock shall be: 
Name 
N o . of 
Class 
Shares 
The Fidelity Bank 
Zilkha & Sons, Inc. 
Industrial National Bank of Rhode Island 
LaSalle National Bank 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Common 
10,500 
Common 
9,000 
Common 
5,000 
Common 
5,000 
National Association 
Preferred 10,500" 

2 7 5 9 
American International Bank 
-2-
The Board also approves an increase in the issued and out-
standing common stock of your Corporation from $1,950,000 to $2,950,000 
by the purchase of 5,000 shares each by Industrial National Bank of 
Rhode Island and LaSalle National Bank at a cost to each of $1,800,000. 
It should be noted that Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act requires that the increase in issued and outstanding capital stock 
be fully paid in within ninety days after the date of this letter. 
Your request for the inclusion of the First National Bank 
of Minneapolis as a stockholder of your Corporation is being held in 
abeyance, pending further consideration by the Board. 
American International Bank, together with its present and 
prospective shareholding banks, should bear in mind the principles 
applicable to changes that might at any time be made in their respec-
tive Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Guideline ceilings. 
In partic-
ular, under Guideline provision II-B-2-c, the entry of new shareholders 
into an Edge Act Corporation does not in itself alter the ceilings of 
the new entrants or of the Edge Act Corporation. Any increase that 
the participants might wish to make in the General Ceiling or in the 
Export Term-Loan Ceiling or in both ceilings of the Corporation, at 
the time of entry or later, should result only from the transfer of 
all or part of the ceilings of one or more of the parent banks, and 
such transfers, with narrow exceptions, are to be on a permanent basis. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
