3/70) 
Minutes for 
J u ly 26> 1 9 7 1 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
•I ^ 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

184£ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, July 26, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 2/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical mate-
rials prepared for this review, and of the individual papers presented, 
have been placed in the Board's files. 
At the conclusion of the staff review, during the course of 
which Chairman Burns and Mr. Cardon withdrew from the meeting, Mr. Rippey 
briefed the Board on pertinent legislative matters presently being con-
sidered by the Congress. 
y 
Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
2J Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 
/ 

184 
7/26/71 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously the applica-
tion of First Virginia Bankshares Corporation, Arlington, Virginia, to 
acquire shares of the successor by merger to Bank of Bland County, 
Bland, Virginia, and authorized issuance of an order (copy attached 
a s Item No. 1) reflecting this decision. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance, and Mr. Stoffels reviewed recent stock market and margin credit 
developments. A copy of the memorandum dated July 23, 1971, on which 
he based his report has been placed in the Board's files. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 
IKMFL STATES OF AMERICA 
7/26/71 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
FIRST VIRGINIA BANKSHARES CORPORATION, 
' 
Arlington, Virginia, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
' 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
the successor by merger to Bank of 
1 
Bland County, Bland, Virginia 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Virginia Bankshares 
Corporation, Arlington, Virginia ("Applicant"), a registered bank 
holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of the successor by 
me*ger to Bank of Bland County, Bland, Virginia ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Virginia 
Commissioner of Banking, and requested his views and recommendation, 
^ e Commissioner recommended approval. 

it 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
federal Register on June 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 11127), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal; A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a U those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
a,*d managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communi-
ties to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is the sixth largest banking organization and 
the fifth largest holding company in Virginia, controlling 15 
banks with $474.5 million in deposits. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 
and reflect holding company acquisitions and formations 
aPProved by the Board to date.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits 
million) would not change Applicant's ranking and consumma-
tion of the proposal would not increase concentration in any 
Market. 
Bank, located in Bland and having a branch at Rocky Gap, 
the only bank located in Bland County, and there is no com-
petition between it and Applicant's closest subsidiary located 

in Narrows, 21 miles northeast of Rocky Gap. For geographic reasons 
such competition appears unlikely to develop, and the declining popu-
lation of the Bland area makes dje novo entry by Applicant unlikely. 
Consummation of the proposed transaction would neither eliminate 
listing competition, foreclose potential competition, nor have 
adverse effects on the viability or competitive effectiveness of 
at*y competing banks. The proposal, by allowing Bank to provide 
^11 banking services, might strengthen Bank's ability to compete 
for Bland County deposits with Banks in Wytheville, Virginia, and 
Bluefield, West Virginia, and thus stimulate competition. Based 
uPon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation of the 
Proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area, and might have a procompetitive effect in 
Bland County. 
Applicant, through Bank, proposes to introduce to the 
area additional types of deposit services, such as certificates 
o f deposit, additional loan services, such as overdraft checking 
accounts, and trust services, and considerations relating to the 
c°nvenience and needs of the communities to be served lend strong 
^eight in favor of approval due to the proposed local availability 
o f full banking services. Considerations relating to the bank-
ing 
factors lend some weight toward approval of the application, 
that Bank's financial condition and prospects, although 

generally satisfactory, would be enhanced through affiliation with 
Applicant. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
ttould be in the public interest and should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order, or (b) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 26, 1971 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
