MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 20, 1972 

i 
2 9 5 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, October 20, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
CoPies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
Placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Mr. Rippey presented a review of matters of interest to the 
presently being considered by the Congress. 

2951 
10/20/72 
-2-
Those who had attended the meeting specifically for the 
economic review then withdrew. 
Regulation J. Mr. O'Connell reviewed recent developments in 
litigation on implementation of the amendments to Regulation J, 
Collection of Checks and Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks. 
Consent calendar. As recommended in a memorandum from the 
Task Force on Emergency Lending dated October 17, 1972, the Board 
Urianimously approved dissemination to the Federal Reserve Banks of 
c°ntingency planning documents for emergency lending to non-depository 
tyPe institutions. A copy of the letter transmitting the documents 
to the Banks is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Girard 
lnternational Bank, New York, New York, to acquire indirectly all of 
^ e shares of Penn Computer Services Limited, London, England. A copy 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Morgan Guaranty 
International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
Datensystem-Beteiligungs GmbH, Frankfurt, Germany, and for the latter 
to acquire shares of two other German companies. A copy of the letter 
Sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
^anking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of The Bank 

2 3 6 
10/20/72 
-3-
°f Orange Park, Orange Park, Florida, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
jtem_No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Consolidated 
^ankshares of Florida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, Florida, to acquire 
shares of Union Trust National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, 
Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bronken 
Agency, Inc., Barron, Wisconsin, to acquire additional shares of Bank 
of Barron, Barron, Wisconsin, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Banks regarding guidelines for Federal Reserve Bank budgets for the 
first half of 1973. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 7. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
/fe^I';-. 
OF »Hr: 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/20/72 
'.'O"' 
WASHINGTON, D. C. *055t 
Wttm; 
'itt'-^-PZfr » 
TO rut KOARO 
•Si-kT.LV>-
At'DRtcr. o r n r i M 
cnRRtscoNOi-Ncr. 
October 20, 1972 
'£S«PISSNTIAL CFR) 
On Decc.nbcr 8S 1970, the Board sent to each Reserve Bank 
planning documents for emergency lending to businesses 
I lcv >Wdeoosir~tvpe ins ti tut ions, with the understanding Miar. they 
^ a c t e d to continuing review and refinement, but were in pltce 
^ quick approval, if needed. A set of revised documents is enclosed, 
iu distributing these documents the Board agasn wirV.es to 
Vi'^a:!.;;•> th.it thev should continue to be closely held and that they 
^•ain subject to review. The Board understands that the System's 
^rc.e 'ou Credi t Analysis will be prepared to provide joint Reserve 
participation in credit anal: 
if it should become necessary to 
' 
these plans. 
Very truly yours, 
'/ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
cure 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL l-WMAL RESERVE BAKKS 

Contingency Plans for Emergency Lending 
to Businesses other than Banks and 
Other Deposit-type Financial Institutions 
Draft guidelines for earmarked loans to member 
banks when direct lending is not necessary. 
Draft circular covering direct lending under 
Par. 3, Section 13 if such lending, should 
become necessary. 

DRAFT 
'cr 
Guidelines for Making 
Earmarked Loans to Member 
Banks 
'fte firm to which the earmarked loan would go should be creditworthy 
arid should have exhausted all regular sources of credit. 
An earmarked loan should be restricted to cases where a temporary lack 
funds might force the suspension of operations, which in turn would 
deemed to have a significant adverse effect on the nation's economy 
°r on the economy of the market area in which the borrower is located, 
earmarked loans to member banks under these provisions should be con-
S:)'dered as separate from and in addition to a member bank's normal 
ae-cess to the discount window. It is understood that a Reserve Bank 
may continue its loan to a member bank as long as the corresponding 
made, by the member bank is outstanding; however, the Reserve 
^'Hik may require repayment by the member bank if the liquidity posi-
tion of the member bank becomes such that support of the loan at the 
count window is no longer necessary. 
Unere the credit needs of the ultimate borrower exceed the prudent 
Ending limit of the member bank and the loan has to be participated, 
Reserve Bank will ordinarily make the credit available to the 
af;£nt or .lead bank and the latter will make the appropriate distribu-
tion to the participating banks. 
the extent possible without jeopardizing the purpose of the earmark 
»ifo&tara, the Reserve Bank should reach an understanding with the 
1)1 smbor bank that the Reserve Bank is in. a ''lasi; in, first out" posi-
tion relative to repayments by the ultimate borrower. This may be 
Olid by mutual agreement upon a realistic repayment schedule. 

-2-
2358 
J* The member bank should understand clearly thai" it bears the risk on 
the earmarked loan. Subject to the provision stated in Guideline 3 
above, the Reserve Bank's loan may remain outstanding as Jong as the 
ultimate borrower's loan is not repaid. However, in the event that 
the borrower becomes unable to repay, e.g., if he becomes bankrupt, 
fche member bank would be expected to repay its loan as soon as the 
kank has resources to do so. 
'* Earmarked loans may be made under Section 13 or Section 10(b) of the 
federal Reserve Act, whichever provision seems appropriate in the 
individual case. If the member bank decides to extend the needed 
emergency funds by purchase of some of the customers' assets rather 
than by a loan, the Reserve Bank may make an earmarked loan to the 
member bank to provide funds for this purpose. 
a 
T 
' iri addition to assuring that a realistic repayment schedule has been 
Established, the Reserve Bank should satisfy itself that the loan 
to the ultimate borrower does not remain outstanding longer than is 
r'2<-essary to meet the objectives set forth in Guidelines 1 and 2. 
Where appropriate, the collateral offered by the ultimate borrower 
should be held by the Reserve Bank to secure the member bank's note. 
^ 
Reserve Bank should not be involved in fixing the terms and con-
ations of the member bank's loan to the ultimate borrower unless it 
ai'pears that the terms and conditions are unreasonable or exorbitant 
the circumstances. 

DRAFT 2 3 5 7 
^UBJFCT: DISCOUNTS FOR jND^lPUALSPARTNERSHIPS AND CORPORATIONS. 
AlX FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
The third paragraph of Section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
A c ts as amended by the Acts of July 21, 1932, and August 23, 1933, 
P'^vides as follows: 
"In unusual ?nd exigent circumstances, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, by the affirma-
tive. vote of not less than five members, may authorize 
any Federal Reserve Bank* during such periods as the said 
Board may determine, at: rates established in accordance 
Vith the provisions of section 14, subdivision (d), of 
this Act, to discount for- any individual, partnership, or 
corporation, notes, drafts, and bills of exchange of the 
kinds and maturities made eligible for discount for mem-
ber banks under other provisions of this Act when such 
notes, drafts, and bills of exchange are. indorsed or 
otherwise secured to the satisfaction of the Federal 
Reserve Bank: Provided, that before discounting any 
such note, draft, o~r bill of exchange for an individual 
or a partnership or corporation the Federal Reserve Bank 
shall obtain evidence that such individual, partnership, 
or corporation is unable to secure adequate credit accom-
modations from other banking Institutions. All such 
discounts for individuals, partnerships, or corporations 
shall be subject to such limitations, restrictions, and 
regulations as the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System may prescribe." 
In view of. the fact that the power conferred by this provi 
can be exercised only in "unusual and exigent circjmsLances'1, 
t,lki Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has not pre-
8c*ibed any formal regulations governing the. exercise of this power; 
bui: the requirements of the law and the procedure which the. Board 

2353 
''ill expect to be followed are outlined below for the information of 
t 
the Federal Reserve Banks and any individuals, partnerships or cor-
porations that may contemplate applying to them for discounts, 
1* LEGAL REQUXREMgtjTS 
« 
It will be observed that, by the express terras of the law: 
(a) The power conferred upon the Board of Governors of the 
\ 
frederei Reserve System to authorize Federal Reserve Banks to dis-
count eligible paper for individuals, partnerships or corporations 
i 
^ay be exercised only: 
(1) In unusual and exigent circumstances, 
(2) By the affirmative vote of not loss than five * 
members of the Board of Governors, and 
(3) For such periods as the Board of Governors may 
determine. 
0 0 When so authorized, a Federal Reserve Bank may discount 
lor individuals, partnerships or corporations only notes, drafts and 
of exchange , of the kinds and maturities made eligible for dis-
'••°unl; for member banks„ under other provisions (Sections 13, 13a, and 
of the Federal Reserve Act. (Such paper u«u3t, therefore, comply 
the applicable requirements of the Regulations of the Board of 
Pernors of the Federal Reserve System.) 
(c) j?apcr discounted for individuals, partnerships or cor-
Po^tion« must be cither (1) indorsed 
or (2) otherwise secured to the 
5attsfac-cion of the Federal Reserve Bank. 

2S59 
(d) Before discounting paper for any individual, partnership 
corporation, a Federal Reserve Bank roust obtain evidence that such 
iu^vidual, partnership or corporation is unable to secure adequate 
c?c<Hi; accommodations from other banks or financial institutions. 
(e) Such discounts may be made only at rates established by 
Federal Reserve Banks, subject to review and determination by the 
E°ard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
(t) All discounts for individuals, partnerships or corpora-
U o n a 
are subject to such limitations, restrictions, and regulations 
8 fcha Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System may prescribe. 
A U T H O R 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. System, having 
etdrained that unusual and exigent circumstances exist, hereby authorises 
SI 1 
1 federal Reserve Banks, pursuant to paragraph 3 of section 13 of the 
fV J 
Reserve Act: and for a period ending at the close of business on 
_ __ $ to discount eligible notes, drafts and bills of exchange 
°r dividual s, par tr.crships and corporations, subject to the provisions 
Of 
Uw, the Board's regulations, and this circular. 
3, FOR WHOM PAPER MAY BE DISCOUNTED. 
A Federal Rosen-re Rank may discount for individuals, partner-
MiPs m- corporations notes, drafts or bills o£ exchange, which are the 
Rations of such individuals, partnerships, or corporations or which 
* ^ 
obligations of other parties actually o*;ned by such individuals, 
or corporations. 

23S0 
-4-
Withiu the. meaning of this circular, the term "corporations" 
c^es not include banks or nonmember deposit-type financial institutions. 
4. PLICATIONS FOR DISCOUNT. 
Each application of an individual, partnership or corpora-
tion for the discount of eligible paper by the Federal Reserve Bank 
m u st be addressed to a Federal Reserve Bank as appropriate in the 
circumstances, must be made in writing on a form furnished for that 
Purpose by the Federal Reserve Bank and must contain, or be accompanied 
the following: 
(a) A statement of the circumstances giving rise to the 
ation and of the purposes for which the proceeds of the dis-
Count are to be used; 
(b) Evidence sufficient to satisfy the Federal Reserve Bank 
a s tf-> (I) the legal eligibility of the paper offered for discount 
u^der the provisions of the Federal Reserve Act and the Regulations 
0 f the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and (2) its 
Acceptability from a credit standpoint; 
(c) A statement of the efforts made by the applicant to 
adequate credit accommodations from other banks or financial 
^Ututions, including the names and addresses of all other barucs 
financial institutions to which applications for such credit 
°ccommodations were made, the dates upon which such applications were 
vhether such applications were definitely refused and the 
Ccsons, if any, given for such refusal; 

(d) A list showing each bank with which the applicant has had 
inking relations, either as a depositor or as a borrower', during the pre-
ceding year, with the approximate date upon which such banking relations 
commenced and, if such banking relations have been terminated, the approxi-
date of their termination; 
(e) Complete credit data regarding the financial condition of 
th* principal obligors and indorsers, if any, on the paper offered for 
discount; 
(f) A list and description of any collateral or other security 
of£ered by the applicant; 
(g) A waiver by the applicant of demand, notice and protest as to 
APPlicanfs obligation on all paper discounted by the Federal Reserve Bank 
0 r held by the Federal Reserve Bank as security; and 
(h) An agreement by the applicant, in form satisfactory to the 
federal Reserve Bank, (1) to furnish additional credit information to the 
Refaerve Bank, when requested, (2) to submit to audits, credit investigations 
examinations by representatives of the Federal Reserve Bank at the expense 
0 f the applicant, whenever requested by the Federal Reserve Bank, and (3) to 
furnish additional security whenever requested to do so by the Federal Reserve 
(i) An agreement: by the applicant that papar discounted under Par. 3 
a u d supporting collateral will be controlled by the Federal Reserve Bank, 
®*ther by physical custody at a Federal Reserve office or in suitably secure 
°Ustody or warehousing off Federal Reserve premises. 
5 . GRANTOR jcEFUSAL OF APPLICATION 
Before discounting notes, drafts, or bills of exchange for any 
dividual, partnership or corporation, the Federal Reserve Bank shall ascer-
to its satisfaction in the circumstances by such means as it may deem 
appropriate: 

~ 6" 
. i -
(a) That the financial condition and credit standing or 
! 
fchf- applicant justify the granting of such credit accommodations; 
(b) That the paper offered for discount is acceptable from 
5 credit standpoint and eligible from a legal standpoint; 
(c) That the indorsement or the security offered appears to 
b° adequate to protect the Federal Reserve Bank against loss; 
(d) That there is reasonable need for such credit acccm-
fcodatlyns; and 
(c) That the applicant is unable to obtain adequate credit 
Accommodations from other banks or financial institutions. 
A special effort should be made to determine whether the 
taking institution with which the. applicant ordinarily transacts 
hi« banking business or any other financial institution to which the 
Applicant ordinarily would have access is willing to grant such 
Crcdit accommodations. 
" A Federal Reserve Bank should not discount such paper 
unless it appears that the proceeds of such discounts will be used to 
ljaance current business operations and not for speculative purposes, 
permanent or fixed investments, or for any other capital purposes, 
E*cept with the permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, no such paper should be discounted if it appears that 
r h e proceeds will be used for the purpose of paying off existing in-
dfj^tcdness to other banking institutions. 

2S63 
-7-
In discounting paper for individuals, partnerships or corpora-
ticns> a Federal Reserve Bank should not make any commitments to renew or 
such paper or to grant further or additional discounts. However, a 
Keserve Bank may indicate that it will consider sympathetically requests 
l0r e*tensicn o;: renewal if circumstances appear to warrant it. 
6. LIMITATIONS 
Loans under this circular shall be made only in cases where the 
faUure of the applicant would have a significant adverse effect on the 
Ge°noray oft the nation or the market area in which the business is located. 
Loans shall be made for 30 days or less, subject to renewal. 
No Federal Reserve Bank shall discount for any one individual, 
Partnership or corporation paper amounting in the aggregate to more than 
6 £• p. 
' million except with the permission of the Board of Governors of the 
f e d e r R . 
Reserve System. 
7. PARTICIPATION OF LOANS 
At any time that the aggregate amount of loans made by a Federal 
K6s r V e Bank under provisions of this circular exceeds 50 per cent of the 
Pm. 
Reserve Bank's capital and surplus, or $50 million, whichever is 
> the amount in excess of these aggregates shall be participated, with 
°u*se, among all Federal Reserve Banks in accordance with a procedure to 
* G t forth by the 3oard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
8 • 
ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS 
Any Federal Reserve Bank may prescribe such additional require-
^nt* 
VJ 
procedures respecting discounts hereunder as it may deem necessary 
• > 
d°visable, provided that such requirements and procedures are consistent 
^IH 
1 
provisions of the law, the Board's regulations and the terms of 
1 <S r -? 
Cltcular. 
vtc 

DRAFT 
Procedure for Participating in Loans-
Made Under Paragraph 3 of Section 13 
of the Federal Reserve Act 
koans made under the provisions of the Board's circular of 
19 
> v n i be carried by each Reserve Bank in a General Ledger Account 
^titled "Discounts for Individuals, Partnerships and Corporations," 
and the face amount of each note and repayments on the note vi.ll be 
entered to this account. The amount of discount will be entered to 
ai1 appropriate account under "Unearned Discount." 
A l the close of business each day the total in the two accounts will 
wired to the Board's Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 
Periodically. or daily if necessary, the Division of Federal Reserve 
Rank Operations will allocate among the Reserve Banks, on the basis 
each Bank's capital and surplus, the aggregate amount by which 
the total of such loans at: each Reserve Bank exceeds 50 per cent of 
tl*at Bank's capital and surplus, or $50 million, whichever is lesser. 
Xhe- allocation will be made by direct entry to the Interdistrict 
Settlement. Funds, and will include the applicable portion of unearned 
discount. 
Upon receipt of the advice of allocation, each Reserve Bank will 
increase or decrease its share of the Interdistrict Settlement Fund 
will decrease or increase amounts in its account for discounts 
f°r individuals, partnerships and corporations and unearned discount. 

B O A R D 
L:JF G O V E R N O R S 
.^OVNOIV-. 
NR THE 
Item NO. 2 
W
S
m 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
10/20/72 
yjmw: 
'Wy 
• . 
WASHINGTON, O. C. R>OI;';I 
AOUKC«3 nrriciAi. COPWRSPOTTOENCR. 
TO THE tJDAVO 
October 24, 1972 
Girard International Bank 
Wall Street 
York, New York 10005 
Ge*it].er.ieu: 
c 
As requested in your letter of July 18, 1972, the Board of 
L°V']; 
grants consent for your Corporation, ("GIB"), to continue 
"I! . 
1 the shares of p'enn Investments (London) Limited, ("PIL"), 
£\fiC!n> England, after PIL acquires all of the shares of Penn Computer 
^•rvices Limited, ("PCS"), London, England, at a cost of approximately 
ill/ 
I. f\ 
* 
XL 
J 
-iJUU, provided such shares are acquired within one year from the 
Clate of this letter, 
• 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase snc'i. 
t.! ; d i n8 of shares of PCS by GIB is granted subject to the condition 
„ 
confine its activities to the provision of data processing 
„01vices in the United Kingdom of the type permitted by Sec-
225.4(a)(8) of Regulation Y« 
tj_ 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condition 
shall comply with the provisions of Sections 21104 and 211.S 
^Regulation K and that, when required, by the Board of Governors, 
1 
furnish the Board wit); such reports regarding the activities 
Ppc 
. 
r 
off- 
a s It: ma-y r e^ u i r e from time to time and maintain at its head 
ice all such information as is necessary for a proper evaluation 
the activities of PCS by the Board's examiners. 
j 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
|vestment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
they apply to Girard Trust Bank and its affiliates. 
Vcry tru1y yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

^-.nlBte 
2 9 6 8 
G U A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
NR THE: 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/20/72 
' 
WASH I KGTON, D. C. AOSSI 
AODNCr.a Rf'FICIAl. C D R H t ' s P O H n E N C l ; 
'•jy.- - • 
•, % R,;.SV• •' , • 
i n THE HOARO 
October 24, 1972 
8a 11 Guaran(:y Intemotional 
'J.nance Oorporati CM 
23 Wall Street 
^•V York, New York. 10015 
T 
As requested in your letter of August 30, 1972, the 
°ard of Governors grants consent for your Corporation. (uKGIFCn), 
0 purchase and hold ail of the shares or Datensyst.eir.-Betelligungs 
^ 
("MGIFC Germany"), Frankfurt, Germany, at a cost of approxi-
- j->' $140,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year 
O
rotn the date of this letter. Consent is also granted for MGIFC 
vj'Cri:,'iay t.o pui;c!".c.se and hold 14 per cent interest in 'JS^ Institue 
Lhr ^atehaystem Fntwicklung HDV - Beratur.c; J.,P. S'cheon - I?, Stodt.e 
,* > ^ uSc, j, Bremen Germany, at a cost, ot approximately KUO/^Oo, 
-na I./, pr;r c e n C 0f- t h e share;; of Schoon-Stedte Gnibli, (S-8 GmbiJ'*') , 
C'enuany, at a cost of approximately $868, provided the 
'vestreats are made within one year from the date of this letter. 
f 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
c~ ^h^res of MGIFC Germany by MGIFC is granted subject to the 
t^ition that MGIFC Germany shall restrict its activities solely 
v. 
a 14 per cent interest in dSE and S-S GmbH. In addition, 
p
 K;n required by the Board of Governors, MGIFC will furnish the 
with such reports regarding the activities of MGIFC Germany as 
may require from time to time. 
^ 
The foregoing consents arc- given on the condition that the 
lv«8tments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
f t 
'-ney apply to Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York and its 
^ fUiates 0 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2SG7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
10/20/72 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
°r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to 
' 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The Bank of- Orange 
?ark» 0range Park, Florida ("Orange Park Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
has been timely received. The Board has considered the application in 
Il§ht °f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 1 7 banks with aggregate deposits of $1.24 
i 0 n, representing 7.7 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
by Florida banks, and is the largest banking organization in the State, 
banking data are as of December 31, 1971, and reflect holding company 
' QCions and acquisitions approved through September 30, 1972.) The 
Cquisition of Orange Park Bank ($12.1 million deposits) would increase 
Appi. 
Want's share of Florida deposits by .07 percentage points. Consumma-
tion 
o f the acquisition would not result in a significant increase in the 
^ r a t i o n of 
banking resources on a local or a Statewide basis. 
Orange Park Bank is located in the Jacksonville banking market 
it controls .85 per cent of total deposits as the twenty-first -Largest 

2363 
-2-
31 bar*ks. Applicant's present two subsidiaries in this market control 
Pe* cent of total deposits, whereas three of the six multibank 
u§ companies represented therein control 71.73 per cent. Upon 
Summation of this proposed acquisition Applicant would control 4.21 
Per 
n t 
total market deposits. 
Applicant's present subsidiaries in the Jacksonville market are 
approximately 12 and 20 miles, respectively, from Orange Park Bank. 
The St 
• Johns River acts as a natural barrier to present or potential 
petition between these banking offices. Competitive considerations 
are insistent with approval of the application. In addition, it appears 
tHote 
thp proposed affiliation would enable Orange Park Bank to compete 
effectively with the larger area banks. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks 
c°nsidered to be generally satisfactory in view of Applicant's commitment 
inc*ease equity capital in its subsidiaries by the end of the year. 
Sement is deemed capable and prospects for the group are favorable, 
fi 
nancial condition of Orange Park Bank is considered to be satisfactory; 
lt has 
capable management; its earnings have been satisfactory; and its 
Pt°sPecfQ appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with approval 
of th 
ae ^Plication. 
The prime banking needs of the area are satisfactorily served 
he Pre 
** the n 
Present time. Although no new services are proposed for Orange Park 
to 
applicant plans to expand and improve its present services; to enable 
the credit needs of the expanding area where residential 

-3-
construction is a prime economic activity; and to provide the bank with 
CaPital as needed. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
the communities to be served are consistent with and lend some support 
tov>ard approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Pr°Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the appli-
Cation should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
th 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rcler 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, 
Utl3-ess such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
^eral Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,"^ effective October 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
fSEAL] 
^ y — _ _ 
Daa
 
oting for this action: 
G0v
 e* Sheehan, and Bucher. 
ert>or Brimmer. 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 

2S70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o > 5 
10/20/72 
CONSOLIDATED BANKSHARES OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Consolidated Bankshares of Florida, Inc., Fort Lauderdale, 
Fl°rida, a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Coitlpany Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the 
A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
S h a r e s of Union Trust National Bank of St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, 
Fl<*ida ("Union Bank") . 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3<b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
atld the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
X*ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls seven banks with aggregate deposits of 
^Proximately $306 million, representing 1.9 per cent of total deposits 
n commercial banks in Florida and is the twelfth largest banking 
0tSani2ation a n d b a n k h o l d i t l g company in the State. (All banking data 
as of December 31, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board through September 15, 1972.) The 
'^isition of Union Bank ($156 million deposits) would increase Applicant s 
Share of state deposits by 1 percentage point, and Applicant would become 
th 
e eighth largest banking organization in Florida. 
The Board has on two previous occasions denied applications for 
the acquisition of Union Bank (55 Bulletin 615, and 48 Bulletin 480). 

2S7 
-2-
In h 
1 both cases the Board found that the proposed acquisitions would foreclose 
potential competition. In one case, the Applicant was the 
ea<Ung organization in the adjoining market, and in the other, was one 
^ ^ e States leading banking organizations which simultaneously received 
aPproval to acquire a smaller bank in St. Petersburg. In the instant case 
applicant's operations are concentrated in the Fort Lauderdale area 
its closest banking subsidiary is located 150 miles from the 
Petersburg area. No present competition exists between Union Bank 
^ 
i 
any of Applicant's present subsidiary banks. It further appears 
likely that any significant competition would develop between 
An 
'Plicant's present subsidiaries and Union Bank in the future due to the 
^ido 
separation of the banking offices, the number of banks in the 
Evening 
area, and State laws restricting branching. It is true, 
a the earlier applications, that the proposal will eliminate 
n-°n Bank as a potential lead bank of a new holding company. However, 
n Bank has demonstrated no inclination to organize a bank holding 
0lnPany, an<^ as this is Its third proposed affiliation with an existing 
hold-, 
company it appears unlikely that Union Bank is willing to serve 
a lead bank. Consummation of the proposed acquisition would have no 
^VRJ. 
effects on existing or potential competition, nor would it have 
any 
by 
adverse effects on any competing banks in the area. 
Union Bank serves St. Petersburg banking market (approximated 
^ e southern portion of Pinellas County) as the second largest of 
25 b ar*s, controlling approximately 15.6 per cent of market deposits. 

Z972 
- J-
^here are 12 banking organizations represented in the market. The largest 
^rket bank holds deposits of $176 million, and seven banks smaller than 
Union Bank control deposits ranging from $94 million to $39 million. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant 
and its present subsidiaries are satisfactory and future prospects of 
each appear favorable. The financial condition and managerial resources 
of Union Bank, as supplemented by Applicant, will also be satisfactory. 
r°spects for Union Bank appear favorable. Considerations relating to 
banking factors are consistent with approval of the application. 
The present ownership and management of Union Bank are 
desirous 
of selling the bank and have shown a reluctance to expand or 
^Prove its services. Applicant proposes to increase the lending limit 
correspondent banking services of Union Bank, to expand its drive-in 
^acilities, to develop an efficient data processing department, and to 
furnish capital for future expansion. Considerations relating to the 
C°nvenience 
and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with 
and lend some support to approval of the application. It is the Board's 
^dguient that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the 
p u bUc interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

2S'?3 
-4~ 
^is Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
^is Order, Unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,^ effective October 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Cftcbell, Daane, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
Airman Burns and Governor Brimmer. 

2374 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/20/72 & 
BRONKEN AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Bronken Agency, Inc., Barron, Wisconsin, a bank holding company 
Within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Bo 
°ard's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
*C(luire 40.8 per cent of the voting shares of Bank of Barron, Barron, 
^Sconsin ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
8°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
nd 
Board has considered the application and all comments received 
in Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) 
Applicant's only banking subsidiary is Bank (deposits of about 
million) of which it presently owns approximately 39.2 per cent of 
the 
1/ 
v°tlng shares.- 
Bank is the third largest of 11 banks located in 
County and controls about 13 per cent of total commercial bank 
p0sits in the area. The additional shares Applicant seeks to acquire 
Substantially those that are presently owned by the three principal 
Ce^s of Applicant. Since the consummation of this transaction would 
only in a change of ownership from individual holdings to corporate 
* cnere appears to be no effect on existing or potential competition 
relevant area. 
V 
A F R T 
4-L banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

2975 
- 2 -
Considerations relating to the managerial and financial 
Prospects of Applicant and Bank appear generally satisfactory and are 
insistent with approval of the application. Considerations relating to 
the convenience and needs of the community to be served also are consistent 
with approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transaction is in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
Masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder o r 
i a t e r tiian three months after the effective date of this 
°r4er, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective October 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
P^Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
P 
Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Pernor Brimmer. 

A./'iJ 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
[JF T H E 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/20/72 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
'
'
" 
TD ™E EDARD 
ADDRESS DRRICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE EOARD 
October 20, 1972 
(FR) 
all
 
I n accordance with the urgent need for cost restraint in 
Bo- ®° v e r n m e n t expenditure areas, Governor Sheehan has requested the 
2 cro s st£lff t o limit annual targeted operating expense increases to 
Vhj vPGr C e n t o v c r j 9 7 2' exclusive of the overall salary adjustments 
Q fch mny be authorized for government agencies in 1973. As a matter 
general policy, the Board feels the Federal Reserve Banks should 
, o vigorously strive to limit cost increases during the coming 
uSet period. 
gu. 
1110 Board realizes that Reserve Bank adherence to this 
ti0 
' m a y b e G S P e c l a H y difficult in view of the recent initia-
that ° f Systera h i g h P r i o r i Ly Programs. However, the Board requests 
in
 
t o t h e extent possible, these expenses be offset by reductions 
4 Programs of lesser urgency. 
tij 
A s a guideline for personnel expenses the Board requests 
bag ,the Fcdcr'qI R e s e r v o Bank budgets for the first half of 1973 be 
Ac!d° -°n t h C c u r r e n L authorized December 33 , 1972, manpower levels. 
lso]ti0nal P o s i t i o n s o v e r 3 n d above the December 31 ceilings should be 
bv ^ftGd i n a suPP1ement and fully justified lor separate consideration 
J ^ e Board. 

VJe recognize that the present period of restraint is a 
difficult one; however, the role of the system in the formulation of 
fictional economic policy dictates careful scrutiny of proposed 
expenditures in all areas. 
Very truly yours, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
'RO THE PRESIDENTS AND CHAIRMEN OF .ML. FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
