609 
Minutes for 
May 19, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
• a.-': 
»'• 
' 
; 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Roberts 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
>n 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 19, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. 01Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Irvine, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Misses Ormsby and Wolcott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Mr. Noble of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ettin and Lawrence of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Burton of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data 
Processing 
JV Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

1640 
5/19/69 
-2-
Equal employment opportunity. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated May 5, 1969, from Messrs. Holland, O'Connell, and 
Johnson relating to the equal employment opportunity program within 
the Federal Reserve System, and making recommendations for certain 
specific actions. In connection with Reserve Bank programs it was 
recommended (1) that the Board designate Messrs. Holland and Hart 
to serve as associate members of the standing Subcommittee on 
Equal Employment Opportunity of the Conference of Presidents, and 
(2) that the staff, working with the Chairman of the Subcommittee and 
othe rs, design a reporting system through which the Board might be 
kept informed of activities in this area. With respect to the 
Board's program, it was recommended that the 10-point program of 
action approved by the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 
December 16, 1968, be formally adopted by the Board and that the 
staff proceed with plans for implementing the various points. 
The memorandum also presented for Board consideration a 
Plan described by Messrs. Hart and Mandel in a memorandum to 
iiiLt 
Mr. Johnson dated March 11, 1969, whereby six disadvantaged high 
school students would be employed up to 16 hours weekly during the 
school year and on a full-time basis during the summer months at 
an hourly entrance salary of $1.87, which would be the equivalent 
o f the first step in grade FR-1. It was contemplated that other 
sPecific proposals would be brought to the Board, and it was 

1641 
5/19/69 
-3-
suggested that the next area deserving of major effort should relate 
to training programs. 
Following explanatory comments by Messrs. Holland and Hart, 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the present strategy would result 
in closing the recruiting gap at the professional level and whether 
the Board was, in effect, divorcing itself from the Reserve Bank programs 
and leaving each Bank to follow its own course. 
Mr. Holland expressed the view that the System was closing 
the gap in terms of over-all advancement. He stated that the rate 
of accessions and the percentages of hirings among the minority 
groups were sizable in a number of areas. The percentages were 
heavy at the clerical end, but there had been an upsurge in the 
recruiting efforts by some of the Reserve Banks at Negro or predom-
inantly Negro colleges. Such an approach had now become the rule 
rather than the exception. The Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
appeared to have established the best contacts for professional level 
recruiting of any in the System, and it was expected that other 
Reserve Banks and the Board would profit therefrom. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that, following Governor Maisel's 
line of inquiry further, he found the implied strategy a little dated. 
A few years ago a strategy of recruiting minority group students and 
then upgrading them by means of a training program would have been 
a good one. But the System was in competition with the Government as 

1 113 
-JL O 
5/19/69 
-4-
well as with commercial banks, and there appeared to be a new strategy 
of recruitment at college or technical school level, which was based 
°n an atmosphere of achievement in terms of the level at which appoint-
ments had already been made. There were very few minority group 
persons in the higher grades to whom the System could point by way 
°f demonstration that it was in earnest. One exception that came 
to mind was that of the Assistant Counsel at the Federal Reserve Bank 
°f Philadelphia, who was an officer of the Bank. Governor Brimmer 
understood that the Reserve Bank had gone out in search of a lawyer 
who was a member of a minority group. In going around the country 
it was evident that there was an increase in the number of Negroes 
and Mexican-Americans employed at the Reserve Banks, but not in the 
upper echelon. Unless the System could demonstrate that it was 
serious in this regard it would be difficult to start successful 
recruiting conversations on the campuses. It also was apparent that 
the more successful an organization was in hiring personnel in the 
lower-paid skills, the less successful it was likely to be in the 
upper levels. A current newspaper article was devoted to what was 
happening in the textile industry, where the conclusion had been 
reached that it was necessary to start some place other than at 
the bottom of the scale. He would hope that at some point the 
Board would look at its own strategy, having in mind especially the 
level of appointments. 

It* 
5/19/69 
-5-
Governor Sherrill agreed that there was much in what Governor 
Brimmer said. He observed that there were two different problems. 
One had to do with volume, and this was reflected in the increase in 
thirings of minority group employees in the lower-level positions. 
The 
other problem was concerned with recruiting personnel for management 
positions. Quite different strategies were needed in approaching 
each problem. However, it seemed to him that the study before the 
Board did lay the groundwork for each approach, both in terms of 
strategy and of measuring success. As the study suggested, there were 
three stages of performance: 
(1) adoption of relevant policies (and 
the Presidents had, as noted in the memorandum, adopted a 10-point 
Program); 
(2) efforts to implement those policies; and (3) results 
from those efforts. Within each of those levels there would be 
four elements in which the System would have to do well in order 
to have a worthwhile program. The first element related to recruit-
ment, which would involve recruitment at two different levels, each 
with its own problems. Effective recruiting at the management level 
would require special effort, perhaps specialized recruiting. He 
W a s aware that some of the Reserve Banks were opposed to this type 
°f preferential hiring. There was a deep emotional and psycholog-
ical block to such a procedure, a feeling that it constituted discrim-
ination in reverse. But this was a bridge the System would have to 
cross before substantial progress could be made. Just to continue 

1614 
t 
i 
5/19/69 
-6-
being nondiscriminatory no longer sufficed, and this was an area in 
which the Board could give some leadership. If it supported the 
theory of specialized recruiting, the Board should let the System 
know its views. In this connection, Governor Sherrill observed that 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas had been remiss in its minority 
group recruiting, and at this point President Coldwell was interested 
in knowing the Board's position regarding recruiting practices. Other 
elements of minority employment, namely, training, work assignments, 
and advancement, were basic in any long-term approach. Specialized 
recruitment, however, appeared to be the answer for near-term results 
in the upper levels. 
Mr. Holland then pointed out that at the lower levels there 
had been a substantial number of additions of persons with potential 
capacity, with the result that one of the pressing problems, at the 
Board at least, related to training facilities to supplement the 
backgrounds of the disadvantaged, thus enabling them to move ahead. 
Another problem arose indirectly from the effort that had been made 
over the years at the Reserve Banks to keep expenses down. In some 
areas job opportunities existed, but there was an apparent reluctance 
to hire persons who would require training because of the resulting 
r i se in unit costs. 
In connection with the latter problem, Mr. Farrell suggested 
that a letter be sent to the Federal Reserve Banks that would emphasize 

1645 
i 
5/19/69 
-7-
the purpose of the functional expense report, which was primarily 
intended to measure accurately the expenses of the various operations 
at the Banks rather than to minimize cost at any price. In some cases 
the Reserve Banks argued that the cost of training a disadvantaged 
Person would raise the cost of the function to which he was assigned 
and accordingly there was a reluctance to participate in the equal 
opportunity employment program. The Banks appeared to lose sight 
°f the fact that after an initial training period the employee would 
be expected to become more productive. 
Following further discussion it was agreed that a letter to 
the Reserve Banks should be prepared, as suggested by Mr. Farrell, 
a nd in addition a meeting should be arranged between the Reserve Bank 
Presidents and the Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, 
and Building Plans to discuss the cost problem involved in hiring and 
training the disadvantaged. 
On the over-all question of the equal employment opportunity 
Program, Chairman Martin suggested the importance of continuing study. 
It was agreed that every effort should be made to stimulate interest 
and response at the Reserve Banks, and Messrs. Holland and Hart were 
{ 
^gsjLgnated to serve as associate members of the Subcommittee on 
Equal Employment Opportunity of the Conference of Presidents. Also, 
the staff was authorized to work with the Subcommittee in developing 
• 
. , 
.
.
. 
a reporting system for keeping the Board informed of Reserve Bank 
Programs. 

1646 
5/19/69 
-8-
In regard to the Board's own equal opportunity program, the 
adoption of the Conference of Presidents' 10-point program of action 
was approved and the staff was authorized to proceed in the implementa-
tion of the various points. 
As interim measures the Board approved (1) the hiring of six 
disadvantaged youths on a full-time basis during the summer months 
and up to 16 hours during the school weeks, at an hourly entrance 
salary of $1.87, and (2) participation in the training program 
sponsored by the American Bankers Association and the National Bankers 
Association "designed to provide increased management resources for 
the black banks of America." The latter proposal was described in 
a memorandum dated April 11, 1969, from Mr. Johnson to Mr. Holland, 
a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The American National 
Bank of Bridgeport, Bridgeport, Alabama, into The First National 
Bank of Scottsboro, Scottsboro, Alabama, was approved unanimously 
f°r transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, the conclusion 
stating that the merger would have no adverse effect on competition. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
Purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Beverly Bank, 
^nicago, Illino is, by Bev Bank, Chicago, Illinois, was approved 
Unanimously for transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora-
tion. The conclusion stated that the transaction would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 

1C.47 
( 
5/19/69 
-9-
Application of Affiliated Bank Corporation (Items 1 and 2). 
There had been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting 
the Board's approval on May 5, 1969, of the application of Affiliated 
Bank Corporation, Madison, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Bank of Madison and Hilldale State Bank, both of Madison, Wisconsin. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 1 and 2. 
Applications of Commerce Bancshares (Items 3-6). There had 
been distributed drafts of orders and a statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on May 5, 1969, of the applications of Commerce Bane-
shares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, to acquire more than 80 per cent 
°f the voting shares of Delmar Bank of University City, University 
Gi-ty, The Kirkwood Bank, Kirkwood, and Union State Bank, St. Charles, 
a U in Missouri. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 3-6. 
Architectural consulting services. Pursuant to the under-
standing at the Board meeting on January 7, 1969, the Chairman of the 
Conference of Presidents was requested to obtain the views of the Reserve 
Banks with respect to the desirability of providing more comprehensive 
architectural consulting services for Federal Reserve building projects. 
I n a memorandum dated April 23, 1969, the Division of Federal Reserve 

16 48 
5/19/69 
-io-
Bank Operations summarized Reserve Bank comments and, on the basis of 
the generally favorable reaction to the proposal to hire an architec-
tural firm for consulting purposes, recommended that the Board institute 
a search for an appropriate firm. The suggestion was made that the 
Board consider the desirability of retaining a special consultant, such 
as Mr. Pietro Belluschi, to assist in identifying appropriate firms, 
outlining and presenting System requirements to those firms, and 
evaluating their relative abilities to meet the System's needs. 
Following d iscussion, the Division's recommendation was 
approved unanimously, and it was understood that an effort would be 
made to secure the services of Mr. Belluschi as suggested. 
Governor Robertson withdrew from the meeting at this point 
in order to present testimony on behalf of the Board before a Congres-
sional committee. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve 
7 
Banks relating to format and content changes in 
the Weekly Report of Condition used by large 
commercial banks (F.R. 416), the Weekly Earning 
Assets Report used by other member banks (F.R. 644), 
and the Weekly Summary Report of Assets and Liabil-
ities of all Member Banks (F.R. 635). 

i. 
164S 
5/19/69 
-11-
Item No. 
Letter to the Presidents of all Federal 
8 
Reserve Banks regarding the investigation 
of the investment activities of bank trust 
departments in equity markets to be under-
taken by an ad hoc subcommittee of the 
System Research Advisory Committee in con-
nection with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission study relating to institutional 
investors. 
Letter to the Bureau of the Budget supporting 
9 
the request of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission for an extension of time and an 
increase in the authorized amount to be 
appropriated to complete its institutional 
investor study. 
Private Export Financing Corporation. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated May 5, 1969, from Governor Brimmer relating 
to the proposal to establish Private Export Financing Corporation, 
which would be owned in whole or in part by United States banks 
through their Edge corporations, and possibly by other United States 
business interests, for the purpose of financing exports of jet air-
craft and other large items, all of its export credits to be guaranteed 
by 
the Export-Import Bank. In October 1968, in response to an inquiry 
from the Treasury Department, the Board expressed itself in support of 
the objectives of PEFCO and commented on some aspects of possible 
organizational arrangements. Since that time certain changes had been 
made in the plan, and the Treasury and Export-Import Bank were now 
seeking an indication of the Board's position with respect to the plan 
a s presently constituted. 

1650 
5/19/69 
-12-
In the memorandum Governor Brimmer discussed the plan in detail 
and pointed out that the principal interest of the Board related to 
institutional issues and balance of payments implications, including 
the possible effects of financing on the foreign credit restraint 
guidelines. He recommended, for the reasons set forth in the memo-
randum, that the Board inform the Treasury and the Export-Import Bank 
that, with respect to the institutional issues, the Board continued 
to support the objectives of the PEFCO proposal and, subject to 
examination of a specific organizational arrangement for that corpo-
ration and subject to appropriate conditions that would include 
adequate leeway for the issuance by PEFCO of any necessary debt instru-
ments, would be disposed to act favorably upon the necessary charter 
applications for Edge corporations and upon the applications by the 
Edge corporations for the Board's prior consent to invest in PEFCO. 
On the balance of payments issues, he suggested that the Board indicate 
it would not object to the financing arrangement outlined in the draft 
Ex-Im/PEFCO agreement (copy attached to the memorandum) except for the 
provision under which the Export-Import Bank would stand ready to 
fulfill lending commitments that PEFCO had made but could not meet. 
Following comments by Governor Brimmer, his recommendation 
was approved unanimously. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 1 
5/19/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
AFFILIATED BANK CORPORATION, 
1 
Madison, Wisconsin, 
1 
for approval of action to become a 
1 
bank holding company through the 
' 
acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
1 
the voting shares of Bank of Madison 
1 
at*d Hiildale State Bank, both of 
1 
Madison, Wisconsin. 
' 
- 
- 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Affiliated Bank 
Corporation, Madison, Wisconsin, for the Board's prior approval 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
o f Bank of Madison and Hiildale State Bank, both of Madison, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified 
Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin of receipt of 

1652 
- 2 " 
the application and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Commissioner made no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 4, 1969 (34 Federal Register 1707), 
which provided an opportunity for interested persons to submit com-
ments and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of 
the application was forwarded to the United States Department of 
Justice for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views 
has expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 19th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
(SEAL) 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1653 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
OF THE 
5/19/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
AFFILIATED BANK CORPORATION, MADISON, WISCONSIN, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
Affiliated Bank Corporation, Madison, Wisconsin 
("Applicant"), has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) 
the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval 
action to become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Madison 
("Madison Bank") and Hilldale State Bank ("Hilldale Bank"), both of 
Madison, Wisconsin, 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the appli-
cation was given to, and views and reconmendation requested of, the 
Commissioner of Banking of the State of Wisconsin. The Commissioner 
toade no objection to approval of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
t o monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 

i€54 
- 2 " 
any part of the United States^ Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
• 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
community to be served. In each case, the Board is required to take into 
consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Acquisition by 
Applicant of Madison Bank ($53.6 million deposits) and Hilldale Bank 
($15.2 million deposits) would have no significant effect on State-
wide banking concentration. Applicant would rank thirteenth in size 
among banking organizations in the State, and would control less than 
* Per cent of the total deposits held by banks located therein. 
A close relationship presently exists between the two proposed 
subsidiary banks. Hilldale Bank was organized by the principal stock-
adders of Madison Bank; the two banks have the same president; and 11 
individuals 
who are regular or advisory directors of Madison Bank are 
a l a o directors of Hilldale Bank. About 63 per cent of the stock of 
ylH v *.' K ' i 
' 
' •• 
\ 
/ 4 • > 
latter bank is owned by shareholders who also own about 41 per cent 
o f the stock of Madison Bank. 

1655 
-3-
< ' J 
1 , 
Madison Bank is the second largest of 13 banks In the Madison 
i j ! 
, 
area, and accounts for about 15 per cent of area deposits, it is stib-
8tantially smaller than the area's largest bank, which is a subsidiary 
o f the State's largest banking organization, and which holds about 
per cent of deposits held by all area banks. Applicant would be 
the fourth registered bank holding company with one or more subsidiary 
banks in the area. 
Hllldale Bank is located in a shopping center about four 
miles west of Madison Bank. It is the sixth largest bank in the Madison 
a r ea, and accounts for about A per cent of area deposits. 
The existing close relationship between Madison Bank and 
Hllldale Bank precludes meaningful competition between them. Hilldale 
Bank was organized in 1961 as a means of offering banking services to 
customers who could not be served with equal convenience by Madison 
Bank because of its location and restrictive provisions of State branch-
ing law. Upon opening of Hilldale Bank, personnel was supplied by 
Madison Bank, and the need of Hilldale Bank for loans was satisfied 
trough sales of commercial loans by Madison Bank. The banking phi-
losophy and services of the two banks have been coordinated, and cus-
tomers in the area reportedly regard the banks as part of the same 
banking 
family". The development of future competition between the 
t v° banks would appear to depend upon a weakening of the present 
r elationship. 
There is no evidence that such a development is likely; 
^ e relationship appears to have been advantageous to both banks, and 
ttle extent of common ownership has increased slightly since 1961. 

•4-
1656 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any part of the United States, and would 
n°t restrain trade, substantially lessen competition, or tend to create 
a monopoly in any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant, a new corporation, has no financial or operating history. 
Its projected financial condition appears satisfactory, its management 
competent, and its prospects favorable. 
The financial condition, management, and prospects of Madison 
Bank are satisfactory. Capital of Hilldale Bank is somewhat below 
desirable levels, and Applicant has indicated its intention to increase 
the capital of that bank in the event that its application is approved. 
the light of that proposal, the financial condition of Hilldale Bank 
i® also regarded as satisfactory, as are its management and prospects. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with, 
and add some weight in favor of, approval of the application. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The 
banking needs of the Madison area appear to be adequately served with 
reasonable convenience by the 13 banks located there. Consummation 
Appiicantts proposal would not result in significant changes in the 
ae*vices of ieifcher of the proposed subsidiary banks, but would facilitate 
Operation between them in meeting larger loan demands and in serving 
the needs of customers of each of them. While this consideration is 
J. i 
s 
o f limited weight in view of the present relationship between the two 
banks, it lends some support toward approval of the application. 

1657 
-5-
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
action would be in the public interest, and that the application should 
approved. 
< 
Way 19, 1969. 

1 G 5 8 
Item No. 3 
5/19/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for approval of acquisition of more 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares 
of Delmar Bank of University City, 
University City, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COIiPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
tn 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( 1 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding 
c°*Pany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more 
Per cent of the voting shares of Delmar Bank of University 
Cit 
cy» University City, Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
tyritt-o 
«-en notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
0 f plnance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and 
mmendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
" ^ c a t i o n . 

1659 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 24, 1963 (33 Federal Register 19211), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
V7as forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is approve^ provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
sunanated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this IStii day of Hay, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman llartin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(SignedN Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
Item No. 4 
5/19/69 
the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, INC., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
approval of acquisition of more 
han 80 per cent of the voting shares 
o f The Kirkwood Bank, Kirkwood, Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce 
Ba ^shares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding 
c°mpany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more 
tha ao 
a a 80 per cent of the voting shares of The Kirkwood Bank, Kirkwood, 
Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
ritten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
of pj 
1nance of the State of Missouri and requested his views and 
"^endation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPPllcation. 

1G61 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application v;as published in the 
Federal Register on December 24, 1963 (33 Federal Register 19211), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
^ s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a U those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is a 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
0j- this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
° r d G r unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 19th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman liartin and 
Governors Mitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) LUisabeth L. Carmichael 
(S5aL) 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 5 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
5/19/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
COMMERCE BANCSHARES, IITG., 
Kansas City, Missouri, 
for app r o v ai Qf acquisition of more 
80 per cent of the voting shares 
Union State Bank, St. Charles, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANIC STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t o section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Rp 
e8ulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Commerce 
^ancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri, a registered bank holding 
Co*pany, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more 
M 
an 80 per cent of the voting shares of Union State Bank, St. Charles, 
Missouri. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
*tten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
^ finance of the State of Missouri and requested his viev/s and 
\ 
r Commendation. 
The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
aPPUcatlon. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on December 24, 196G (33 Federal Register 19211), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
m views vjith respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
l7as forwarded to the United States Department of Tustice for its 
c°nsideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
a H those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
e r unless such time shall be extended by the Board, or by the 
Fed 
eral Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington,. D. C., this 19th day of May, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman ilartin and 
Governors iiitchell, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Daane. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmi 
el 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

1664 
a 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 6 
OF THE 
5/19/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
COMMERCE BAITCCHARES, INC., KANSAS CITY, MISSOURI, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THREE BANKS IN MISSOURI 
STATEMENT 
Commerce Bancshares, Inc., Kansas City, Missouri ("Applicant"), 
re8istered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
Pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 
U«S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of more 
t h a n G 0 P e r cent of the voting shares of the following Missouri banks: 
Delmar Bank of University City, University City ("Delmar Bank"); 
(2 \ 
The Kirkwood Bank, Kirkwood ("Kirkwood Bank"); and (3) Union State 
B a n k. St. Charles ("Union Bank"). 
Although each of the applications has been separately 
n S i d e r e d at*d is the subject of a separate Board Order, because of 
and circumstances common to the three applications, this Statement 
cental n s t h e Board's findings and conclusions with respect to all three. 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authority. - As 
u by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the three 
aPplican 
tttions was given to the Commissioner of Finance of the State 
of ^ 
Ssouri, and his views and recommendations were requested. The 
*loner recommended approval of each of the applications. 

1665 
- 2 " 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not apnrove an acquisition chat would result in a 
Monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
anV part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
°r which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
^°ard finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
a i e clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community 
to be served. In each case the Board is required to take into consider-
' '"-/'; VH'- 
't 
ation the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the 
bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and 
^eeds of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transactions. - Applicant is the 
fcbird largest banking organization in the State of Missouri, ranking 
^ehind two independent banks located in downtown St. Louis. The six 
subsidiary banks of Applicant hold aggregate deposits of $592 million, 
° r 6*1 p e r c e nt 0f the deposits held by all commercial banks in the State. 
this amount, about $4C7 million is accounted for by Applicant's largest 
Subsidiaj-y^ Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City. Acquisition of Delmar 
^ All banking data are as of June 29, 196C, adjusted to reflect holding 
mPany applications approved by the Board to date. 

16G6 
- 2 " 
Bank ($36.3 million deposits), Kirkwood Bank ($25.3 million deposits), 
and Union Bank ($12.4 million deposits) would increase the deposits 
under Applicant's control to 6.9 per cent of the State total. 
All of the proposed subsidiary banks are located in the 
st. Louis Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area ("SIISA"), which is 
composed of the City of St. Louis, four Missouri counties, and two 
counties in Illinois. The three banks account for less than 1.5 per-
cent of the deposits held by all banks in the SIISA, 
A distance of 175 miles or more separates each of the proposed 
subsidiary banks from each of Applicant's present subsidiaries, and none 
the present subsidiaries serves the St. Louis area. 
Delmar Ban1.: and ICirkwood Bank are both located in St. Louis 
County, while Union Ban!: is located in St. Charles County. Delmar Ban!: 
and ICirlcwood Bank are about 10 miles apart, and the former is 14 miles 
the latter 20 miles from Union Bank. All are conservatively-operated 
retail banks which serve individuals and small businesses located in 
close proximity to their respective offices. Each derives less than 
2 Per cent of its deposits from the areas served by the other two. 
Delmar Bank is the larger of two banks located in University 
City, 
the third largest of six banks located in the area which it serves, 
a n d the fourth largest of 11 banks competing within the area. Six of 
the banks are associated with one or more other banks in the St. Louis 
area, including one which is a subsidiary of a registered bank holding 
company and another which is affiliated with the State's largest bank 

1667 
- 2 " 
through common ownership. Although one of the larger banks in its area, 
the competitive effectiveness of Delmar Bank has been limited, in part 
because of its location in the center of a portion of University City 
which has suffered from urban decay, and in part because of conservative 
Policies which it has followed. Exemplifying the latter is a loan port-
folio equal to only 40 per cent of deposits and less than two-thirds the 
size of its investment portfolio. 
U 
Kirlcwood Bank is the larger of two banks located in Kirkwood, 
t h e Second largest of four banks located within the area which it serves, 
j 
the fourth largest of nine banks regarded as competing within the 
fly* 
ea. As in the case of Delmar Bank, Kirkwood Bank's size relative to 
'hat of other banks in its area appears to be more a result of its age 
established customer relationships than of present competitive ability. 
Shl-fting traffic and shopping patterns resulting from residential and 
fro 
eway construction have placed the bank at some competitive disadvantage 
respect to its location, and that disadvantage is compounded by 
degressive policies which it has pursued. The bank's loan to deposit 
r a t l° is below 30 per cent. 
Although part of the St. Louis SHSA, St. Charles is somewhat 
more r removed from the heart of the metropolitan area than either University 
C l t 
y °r Kirkwood. 
Union Bank is the second largest of four banks located 
Charles, the boundary of which approximates the service area of 
the 
e bank. i n contrast to University City and Kirkwood, economic develop-
ment < St. Charles began relatively recently, and is accelerating. 

1 6 f i 8 
- 2 " 
Summarizing the competitive effects of the three proposals, 
*t does not appear that acquisition by Applicant of any or all of the 
Proposed subsidiary banks will have undue adverse effects on banks which 
compete with any of them. No significant competition exists between the 
Present and proposed subsidiaries of Applicant, and in view of the restric-
tions of State lav; with respect to branches (each bank is permitted one 
Umited-service facility, located within 1,000 yards of its main office), 
there is little potential for future competition between them. Present 
c°nipetition among the proposed subsidiaries is minimal, and, although 
e distances between them are not so great as to preclude the possibility 
future competition, significant future competition does not appear 
likely, based upon their past operations and unaggressive policies. Each 
the proposed subsidiaries is subject to significant competition within 
its c 
service area, and larger banks in downtown St. Louis must also be 
e8arded as competitors, at least with respect to larger customers and 
c°itimuters. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
of any or all of the present proposals will not result in a monopoly or 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize, 
arid \ V7ill not substantially lessen competition, restrain trade, or tend to 
create a monopoly in any section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
APpli< 
satisfactory, as is the case with its present subsidiaries. 
want's financial condition, management, and prospects are regarded 

1669 
- 2 " 
Each of the proposed subsidiary banks is in good financial 
condition, and their prospects are considered to be generally favorable, 
although the prospects of each would likely be improved by its acquisi-
tion by Applicant. The management of each is regarded as satisfactory, 
although conservative in banking philosophy and relatively unaggressive. 
Management of Delmar Bank is approaching the usual retirement age, and 
acquisition by Applicant would provide a solution to any management 
Accession difficulties which might develop at that bank. 
These considerations are consistent with, and provide some 
Weight in favor of, approval of the applications. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. - The banking 
needs of communities served by Applicant's present subsidiaries would not 
affected by consummation of the present proposals, except to the extent 
a t 
broader base of Applicant's operations will permit a strengthening 
0 £ 
the specialized services which will be made available to all banks in 
t h e group. 
Applicant proposes to improve the services in each of the areas 
8e*Ved by the proposed subsidiaries by increasing the lending capabilities 
liberalizing loan policies of the banks, and by providing specialized 
a J 
c e and facilities to meet area needs. All three banks, and indirectly 
communities which they serve, would benefit from the efficiencies of 
Centralized 
accounting and auditing system and coordinated staff train-
lS. Appli cant can also provide needed mortgage financing to the growing 
t# Charles area, urban redevelopment capital to the University City area, 

1670 
- 2 " 
and Increased consumer credit services in the Kirkwood area. Trust 
services, currently offered by only one bank in St. Charles, will be 
Vitiated by Union Bank, and needed expansion of presently inadequate 
banking quarters of that bank can be effected by Applicant without 
diminishing the bank's capital position or inhibiting expansion of its 
loan portfolio. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
comraunities involved support approval of each of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
*acts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
i*1 section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that each of the 
Proposed transactions would be in the public interest, and that the 
aPPlications should be approved. 
% 
19, 1969. 

1671 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20351 
Item No. 7 
5/19/69 
ADDRESS o f f i c i a l c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
TO THE BOARD 
May 19, 1969 
; 
toz>is. 
• .... 
D e a r 
S l r : 
Resea u 
T h C S y s t e m Cotnmittee on Current Reporting Series, the System 
Board 
A d v i s o r y Committee, t h e Conference of Presidents, and the 
C 
h a V C a p p r o v e d f o r m a t a« d content changes in the Weekly Report 
Earni 
U S e d b y l a r g e c o m m e r c l a l b a n k s (F.R. 416), the Weekly 
6? A s s e t s R e P o r t used by other member banks (F.R. 644), and in 
Memb 
t h e W e e k l y Summary Report of Assets and Liabilities of all 
Previ1" B a n k s* 
F o r t h e m o s t P a r t t h e s e changes correspond to those 
effecM 
i n c o r P ° r a t e d i n t h e official commercial bank call report 
CePort 
6 W l t h t h € 8 p r i n g 1 9 6 9 c a l 1 ' Related changes in published 
and e ( !? (
W i 1 1 a l s o f o l l o w f r o m these revisions. Changes in processing 
lan . l m a t i n 8 procedures at the Reserve Banks and at the Board are 
u involved. 
a 
tency 1 
T h e s e changes in weekly reports serve to maintain consis-
by memb n r e p o r t i n 8 requirements among the various reports submitted 
^eaain ® r . b a n k s 
a n d 
a r e required for the logical administration and 
Syste 8 
a n a l y s i s 
o f statistical information processed in the 
m t 
at* o V e 
ImPlementation of the changes is scheduled for July 2 with 
that th 
l n r e p o r t i n 8 o n b o t h bases on June 25. It is recognized 
change *** W l 1 1 b e c o n 8 i d erable time pressure in implementing these 
Consist ° n t H e p r o p o s e d schedule, but in light of the need for report 
th 
y b o t h f r o m t h e 
viewpoint of burden on respondent banks and 
output ° vlewpoint of System administration and analysis of statistical 
* 
is felt it would not be feasible to postpone these changes. 
f°Uow di A 1 1 o f t h e c h a nKes in F.R. 644, Earning Assets Report, 
Member , 
ct*y *rom call report changes. 
(a) Nonweekly reporting 
anks will be required to include valuation reserves in 

1&7Z 
- 
2 
" 
^ , 
• 
, , . 
• ,, 
• , 
sported totals of loans and securities, (b) They also will be 
required to consolidate earning asset holdings and total assets 
significant domestic subsidiaries In weekly reports. There will 
b e sufficient leeway In Implementing the latter requirement for 
current reporting so It should not be excessively burdensome. 
All but one of the changes in F.R. 416, Weekly Report of 
onditlon, follow from call report changes, 
(a) Weekly reporting 
anks will be required to include valuation reserves in reported 
total8 of loans and securities and report the amount of such 
reserves separately on the right side of the balance sheet. 
' ) They will be required to consolidate accounts of domestic 
subsidiaries in current reports, (c) They will be required to 
delude Federal funds and repurchase agreements in a separate 
tem under assets and under liabilities and to provide a three-
WaV breakdown under assets according to the other party to the 
Jjansaction, i-e., according to who received the funds, plus an 
ditional breakdown by nature of collateral under transactions 
with brokers and dealers. 
This change in Federal funds and repurchase agreement 
tePorting 
was not part of the package of call changes recently 
^Pproved but has been in the uniform interagency call report since 
J U ne 1967. 
The breakdown of Federal funds and repurchase agree-
ments on the asset side will follow the supplementary breakdown now 
Q u i r e d for June and December reports of condition with the addi-
l°nal breakdown of transactions with brokers and dealers in 
®ecuritles into transactions secured by U.S. Government securities 
a n d those secured by other securities. The latter breakdown, which 
8oes beyond the present call form, is needed to continue the present 
useful weekly series on credit extended by weekly reporting banks 
0 brokers and dealers. 
The feasibility of the requirement for consolidation of 
subsidiaries 
was discussed extensively at System Committee level 
a a d at Board staff level. It was decided that this requirement was 
necessary to maintain consistency of current series with the call 
£ePort benchmark data on which the series are based. It would not 
® feasible to maintain current series on a conceptual basis other 
"an that of the call report. As with the earning assets report, 
sufficient leeway will be provided in current reporting to keep it 
° m being excessively burdensome. 
{ 
Technical memoranda describing in detail the changes in 
rmats and processing procedures will be sent to the persons at 
y°ur Bank directly concerned with such matters. Some preliminary 

1673 
- 
3 -
i 
- .-v ' . 
^formation essential to early planning for implementation of the 
Ranges has been circulated previously so that adaptation of Reserve 
^ processing procedures to the requirements of the revised reports 
c°uld begin Immediately on approval of the changes. 
Changes in F.R. 416 and F.R. 644 require approval of the 
Bureau of the Budget and your Bank will be advised by wire of the 
number and expiration date of Budget approval when that Agency has 
acted. Pending this, it would not be advisable to give formal 
n°tiflcation of the forthcoming changes to respondent banks. 
Very truly yours, 
v. 
& 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
U 
- . 
... 
' 
• • t * 
'••-•• 
X i, »', (J £ 4; • . 
• 
, * , 
... 
: 
vfyW^jj 
| • , < 
. _ ' - , ; , v .. 
; 
. 
' 
Mm 
• 
' ^ASu' r 
If; THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANiCS 
°Pyi Heads of Research at each Reserve Bank 
Member of Committee on Current Reporting Series 
• 
, v * at each Reserve Bank 

BOARD D F GCIVERN • RS 
Item No. 8 
• F T H E 
5/19/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 19, 1969. 
Dear Sir: 
The Securities and Exchange Commission last year was authorized, 
a Joint Resolution of the Congress, to conduct a study of the impact of 
institutional investors in markets for equity securities. (A description of 
tlle full scope of the planned study has been distributed to the head of research 
a t each Federal Reserve Bank.) The Board, in Congressional testimony and in 
dl*ect conversation with the SEC officials, has offered to assist the SEC in 
those areas of the study of direct interest to the System. 
One area in which the SEC is seeking our help involves investigation 
o f the investment activities of bank trust departments in equity markets. To 
facilitate planning of the work that will be undertaken in this area, an ad hoc 
8ubcommittee of the System Research Advisory Committee has been established to 
consult with the staffs of the Board and the SEC. The ad hoc subcommittee is 
under the chairmanship of Mr. Eisenmenger of the Boston Federal Reserve Bank, 
and includes representation from the Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
Chicago, and San Francisco. The group will help in selecting a panel of bank 
trust departments to which a statistical questionnaire would be addressed, in 
developing 
appropriate and feasible data requests for such a survey, and in 
Rearing the resulting proposals with other banking agencies and the Budget 
^reau. Depending on the size of the bank panel chosen, it is possible that 
8taffs of other Reserve Banks will be involved with the survey as well. 
It will be very helpful if members of the subcommittee can call upon 
t h e technical knowledge of trust department operations resident in other depart-
ments of the Reserve Banks, and your cooperation in insuring that such assistance 
l s forthcoming will be appreciated by the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T° "THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

V 
1G75 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 9 
5/19/69 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
May 19, 1969. 
W. H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director 
for Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Executive Office of the President, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
As requested by you on May 14, 1969, the Board of Gov-
ernors of the Federal Reserve System supports the SEC request for 
an extension of time and an increase in the authorized amount to 
e appropriated to complete its institutional investor study. The 
Board feels that the requested extension is both reasonable and 
necessary in view of the time required to build the staff to con-
U ct the special study, accumulate and evaluate the necessary data, 
and draft the report for Commission review. 
The Director of the Special Study has previously consulted 
Wlth Board staff regarding the content and coverage of the proposed 
study, an(j the Board believes that there is a need for a more up-to-
ate analysis of the growing importance of institutional investors 
xn the equity markets. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
