'R 609 
Rev. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
October 2, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 2, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Williams, Axilrod, Gramley, Sigel, 
Smith, Eckert, Wernick, Burns, Ettin, Freedman, 
Gehman, Keir, Thompson, Trueblood, and Zeisel, 
and Mrs. Smelker of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Bryant, 
Dunn, Gekker, Lee, Maroni, and Pizer of the 
Division of International Finance 
Economic review. Members of the research staff reviewed the 
U.S. balance of payments position, selected international financial 
1/ Withdrew from meeting at point indicated in minutes. 

10/2/67 
-2-
developments, and trends in domestic business and financial conditions, 
the reports being based to some extent on materials that had been dis-
tributed in preparation for tomorrow's meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
Copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the 
Committee's files. 
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill and Smith withdrew from the 
meeting. Messrs. Broida and Holland also withdrew, as did Miss Eaton 
and Miss McWhirter, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Messrs. Plotkin and Cloth of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Lawrence and Wiles of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
to the transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency of a report on 
the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Commercial 
and Industrial Bank, Fayetteville, North Carolina, into North Carolina 
National Bank, Charl otte, North Carolina, in a form in which the con-
clusion read as follows: 
There appears to be little, if any, competition exist-
ing between Commercial and Industrial Bank, Fayetteville, 
and North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte. 
However, 
because of the opportunity for de novo branching in the 
State, there is potential for competition between them. 
The overall competitive effect of the proposal is slightly 
adverse. 

3817 
10/2/67 
-3-
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in proposed transactions whereby The 
Citizens State Bank, Humeston, Iowa, would simultaneously (1) merge 
Security State Bank, Allerton, Iowa, and (2) acquire part of the assets 
and assume the deposits of Lineville State Bank, Lineville, Iowa, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion 
read as follows: 
Because of their common ownership, as well as their 
relatively small size and the distances between them, there 
is virtually no competition to be eliminated by The Citizens 
State Bank, Humeston, Iowa, proposal to acquire part of the 
assets and assume the deposits of Lineville State Bank, Line-
ville, Iowa, and to merge Security State Bank, Allerton, Iowa. 
While effectuation of the proposals would foreclose the lim-
ited potential for competition among the subject banks should 
their common ownership cease, it would provide a resulting 
institution capable of rendering stronger competition with 
the other banks in the area. Accordingly, the overall effect 
on competition would not be adverse. 
Proposed amendments to Regulation F (Item No. 1). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated September 27, 
1967, submitting proposed amendments to Regulation F, Securities of Mem-
ber State Banks, that would add a definition of "beneficial ownership" 
and a section relating to inclusion of minority stockholder proposals 
in a bank's proxy soliciting material. 
The memorandum, which summarized the proposals and commented on 
the principal effects of the suggested amendments, noted that definition 
°f the term "beneficial ownership" would correct the wide diversity 

381.8 
10/2/67 
-4-
found in the reporting of ownership of bank stock held by family mem-
bers of directors, officers, and principal stockholders of banks sub-
ject to Regulation F. 
The memorandum pointed out that provisions on proposals of 
minority stockholders had been contained in the draft of Regulation F 
that was published in the Federal Register for comment in 1964. How-
ever, adverse comment by the banking industry at that time led the 
Board to defer determination of the extent to which such provisions 
should be included in the regulation pending further study in light of 
experience. 
It now appeared, for reasons set forth in the memorandum, 
that the banking industry would benefit rather than suffer from pro-
visions governing the inclusion of minority stockholder proposals in 
proxy statements. 
It was the recommendation of the Legal Division that the pro-
posed amendments be published in the Federal Register for comment. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of press release that would 
include the text of the proposed amendments. The suggested amendments 
had been discussed with the staffs of the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation and the Comptroller of the Currency as well as with the 
staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
It was anticipated 
that the Corporation and the Comptroller would adopt similar amendments. 
In response to a question from Governor Maisel, Mr. Plotkin said 
that the proposed definition of "beneficial ownership" followed closely 

381.9 
10/2/67 
-5-
the reasoning set forth in an interpretation issued by the Securities 
and Exchange Commission in 1966, while the amendments with respect to 
minority stockholder proposals were patterned generally after the per-
tinent SEC regulation. He described the only significant difference 
and the reason therefor. 
Governor Brimmer referred to the subparagraphs of the proposed 
new section relating to proposals of security holders that would permit 
management to omit such proposals from proxy statements under certain 
circumstances. 
Specifically, he called attention to the exception that 
would permit omission of proposals submitted by a security holder "prin-
cipally for the purpose of enforcing a personal claim or redressing a 
personal grievance against the bank or its management, or principally 
for the purpose of promoting general economic, political, racial, reli-
gious, social, or similar causes." 
He understood that this language 
was taken from an SEC regulation of long standing, and he appreciated 
the argument that such a provision was designed to protect management 
from undue harassment by small vocal groups. Nevertheless he wondered 
whether such an exclusion might not also affect proposals advanced by 
responsible minority groups with legitimate grievances. He cited sev-
eral specific situations by way of illustration. 
Mr. Plotkin replied that one of the purposes of the rule was to 
afford stockholders an opportunity to communicate with each other on 
matters in which they had a legitimate interest as stockholders. 
If 

8820 
10/2/67 
-6-
proposals related to legitimate interests of stockholders, the exclu-
i 
sion would not apply. Other proposals, however, could relate to matters 
on which it was not proper for stockholders to address themselves, and 
in such cases the exclusion could properly be applied. 
In between there 
might well be difficult questions, not only under the paragraph to which 
Governor Brimmer had referred but under the paragraph permitting omission 
if the proposal consisted of a recommendation or request that management 
take action on a matter relating to the "conduct of the ordinary business 
operations of the bank." However, the Board would be the final arbiter 
as specific questions came up, and precedents gradually would be estab-
lished. 
In response to another question, Mr. Plotkin pointed out that 
in cases where management desired to omit stockholders' proposals from 
proxy solicitations, management would be required to submit to the Board 
the proposals and the reasons why their exclusion was believed justified. 
The staff would analyze the situation, research the corporate law, and 
on the basis of its findings make recommendations to the Board. 
The 
Board's views would then be communicated to the bank's management. 
Mr. 
Plotkin added that it had been the practice at the SEC also to send 
advice to the stockholders concerned. 
If a bank should refuse to abide 
by the Board's views, the recourse would be to go to court and seek an 
injunction. 

O O 
a^JL 
10/2/67 
-7-
Following further discussion, it was agreed to publish the pro-
posed amendments to Regulation F in the Federal Register with an invi-
tation for comments. A copy of the related press release in the form 
in which it was subsequently issued is attached as Item No. 1. 
Salary of officer at St. Louis Bank (Item No. 2). 
Unanimous 
approval was given to a letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
approving the payment of salary to Eugene A . Leonard as Vice President 
and Manager of the Memphis Branch, at the annual rate fixed by the Bank's 
Board of Directors, for the period November 1 through December 31, 1967. 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Governor Mitchell withdrew from the meeting at this point, along 
with several members of the staff. 
Report on enrolled bill S. 1862 (Item No. 3). 
Governor 
Robertson noted that a request had been received late Friday afternoon 
from the Bureau of the Budget for a report within 48 hours on enrolled 
bill S. 1862, to amend the authorizing legislation of the Small Business 
Administration and for other purposes. He expressed reluctance to report 
on proposed legislation without opportunity for study and suggested that 
consideration of the matter be deferred. Governor Maisel noted, how-
ever, that a failure to respond within the time indicated might be 
regarded as an endorsement of the bill by default. 
In response to questions from members of the Board, the staff 
recalled that the Board had reported on S. 1862 at an earlier stage of 

3822 
10/2/67 
-8-
the bill's consideration. 
In its present form, however, the bill 
included a provision, inserted in the House, that would forbid a bank 
to acquire shares in any small business investment company if, upon 
making that acquisition, the bank would hold 50 per cent or more of 
any class of voting stock of the company. Mr. Solomon expressed the 
view that such a provision would discourage activity by banks in this 
field without accomplishing a constructive purpose. Most of the inter-
ested banks, he added, were probably already active in the field, and 
he would not suggest recommending that the bill be vetoed. However, he 
felt that the Board might want, for purposes of the record, to cite the 
provision in question as undesirable. 
Governor Brimmer agreed with Governor Robertson that a report 
should not be made on a bill without appropriate study. However, he 
hoped that the Board would proceed to reach a position on S. 1862 and 
advise the Budget Bureau for purposes of the record. When a request of 
this kind was received, he believed a reply should be made. 
During the ensuing discussion several possible procedures were 
suggested, one of which was that a holding letter be sent to the Bureau 
that would refer to the particular provision of the bill and indicate 
that the Board was studying the question and would make its views known 
to the Bureau by Wednesday, October 4. 
Following further discussion, it was agreed that a letter along 
the lines suggested would be sent and that the matter would be considered 

< 
VcM*. 
10/2/67 
-9-
further at the Board meeting on Wednesday. 
It was understood that in 
the meantime the staff would ascertain the views of the Small Business 
Administration and prepare a memorandum on the matter. 
Secretary's Note: 
Subsequently the staff 
ascertained that the Small Business Admin-
istration, while not pleased with the pro-
vision forbidding future acquisition of 
shares of a small business investment com-
pany if that would result in a bank's hold-
ing 50 per cent or more of the voting stock 
of the company, favored the bill in general 
and would not want to endanger its signing. 
Accordingly, with the approval of the six 
available members of the Board a letter was 
sent to the Bureau of the Budget in the form 
attached as Item No. 3. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Kenyon then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Outside space. The Board authorized amending the lease for 
space in the Watergate Office Building so as to include additional 
space totaling approximately 8,000 square feet on the fourth, fifth, 
and eleventh floors. The Board also authorized endeavoring to secure 
a 90-day option on approximately 3,700 square feet of space on the 
seventh floor, such option to be in contemplation of possible lease 
on the same basis as the other space. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board acceptance of 
the resignation of Ernest L. Pullen, Cafeteria 
Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business September 28, 
1967. 

3824 
<L> 
10/2/67 
-10-
On October 2, 1967, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated author-
ity as indicated by the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Item No 
Letter to The Connecticut Bank and Trust 
4 
Company, Hartford, Connecticut, approving 
the establishment of a branch in Waterford. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to Peoples Bank and Trust Company, 
5 
Cedar Rapids, Iowa, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch on First Avenue East 
and an investment in bank premises incident 
thereto. 
Letter to Genesee Merchants Bank & Trust 
6 
Co., Flint, Michigan, granting an exten-
sion of time within which to establish a 
branch at East First Street and Harrison 
Street. 
V--K..J 
- \ 
u 
Assistant Secretary/ 
V 
{ r » * ' .. . n Z • 
" £ 
vt if* • • i 
< . 
. '•< i 

<7 o o cr 
Item No. 1 
10/2/67 
For immediate release. 
October 2, 1967 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
released, for comments by interested persons, proposed amendments to 
its Regulation F, "Securities of Member State Banks'* that would add 
(a) a definition of "beneficial ownership," and (b) a provision relating 
to inclusion of minority stockholder proposals in a bank's proxy 
soliciting material. 
Beneficial Ownership 
The Board has noted a wide diversity in reporting of the 
ownership of bank stock held by family members of directors, officers, 
and principal stockholders (often referred to as "insiders") of banks 
subject to Regulation F. This has occurred not only in stock-owner-
ship reports required to be filed by such persons pursuant to section 
16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act, but also in registration state-
ments and proxy statements required to be filed by banks pursuant to 
sections 12 and 14 of the Act. Accordingly, in the interest of uniform 
disclosure by banks and other persons subject to the regulation, the 
Board believes it necessary to adopt a definition of the term "beneficial 
ownership," as used throughout the Regulation. 
The principal effect of the proposed definition would be to 
require the reporting of shares owned by the spouse (except where legally 
separated) and minor children of every director, officer and principal 
stockholder. Shares owned by any relative who lives in the same home 
would also be required to be reported. 

3 8 2 G 
- 2-
The proposed definition does not specify the only situations 
where ownership of shares held in the name of others should be reported. 
For example, certain trust interests should be reported (see eection 
206.6(d) of Regul 
ation F), as should shares owned by a partnership or 
corporation in which the person 
reporting has a substantial interest. 
In addition, a person is regarded as the beneficial owner of securities 
held in the name of another person, if there exists a contract, under-
standing, .relationship, or other arrangement that gives him benefits 
or powers substantially equivalent to those of ownership. 
Also, the proposed definition is not intended to create a 
legal 
presumption for other purposes that the person reporting is, in 
fact, the beneficial owner of securities held by other persons; for 
example, with respect to tax consequences or forfeiture of short-swing 
trading profits under section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act. 
The person reporting is privileged by section 206.6(c) of Regulation F 
to disclaim beneficial ownership of such securities in ownership reports 
filed under section 16(a) of the Act, and the bank also may include such 
a disclaimer in its registration statement, proxy statements, and other 
reports. A final determination of the existence of beneficial ownership 
can be made, of course, only by a court of appropriate jurisdiction in 
the light of the facts of the particular case. 
In addition, adoption of the new definition would not impose 
any additional duties or liabilities with respect to reporting of trans-
actions or holdings prior to its effective date. Prior reports will not 
he required to be amended. 

1 \ 
/ 
Minority Stockholder Proposals 
In the light of experience gained since Regulation F was 
adopted in 1964, the Board of Governors also believes that it would be 
in the public interest to adopt requirements relating to management pre-
sentation of stockholder proposals in a bank's proxy soliciting material. 
The proposed amendment would require the inclusion of stock-
holder proposals relating to matters, other than elections to office, if 
submitted to management within the time period specified. However, 
specified types of stockholder proposals would not be required to be 
included. Some of the principal reasons for omission would be: 
(1) if the proposal is impossible to accomplish or, under 
applicable law, is not a proper subject for action by stock-
holders; or 
(2) if the proposal consists of a recommendation or request 
that the management take action with respect to a matter relating 
to the conduct of the ordinary business operations of the bank; or 
(3) 
if it appears that the proposal is submitted by the 
stockholder principally for the purpose of enforcing a personal 
claim or redressing a personal grievance against the bank or its 
management, or principally for the purpose of promoting general 
economic, political, racial, religious, social, or similar causes. 
In addition, in order to avoid unwarranted annual repetition 
Proposals, a bank could omit a stockholder's proposal for a three-year 

' 7 U O C 
Period ifi substantially the same proposal had been considered at 
previous stockholders' meetings and received less than a specified 
Percentage of the votes cast. 
The Board believes that the new provisions will promote 
corporate democracy and, at the same time, protect bank management in 
its relationships with minority stockholders. 
Comments on the proposed amendments should be sent to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
D- C. 20551, to be received not later than November 6, 1967. 
The text of the proposed amendments to Regulation F are 
attached. 

3829 
REGULATION F--"SECURITIES OF MEMBER STATE BANKS" 
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS 
To add a new section 206.2(ff) as follows: 
(ff) The terms "beneficial ownership", "beneficially 
owned", and the like, when used with respect to the reporting of 
ownership of the bank's equity securities in any statement or 
report required by this Regulation, shall include, in addition 
to direct and indirect beneficial ownership by the reporting per-
son, ownership of such securities (l) by the spouse (except where 
legally separated) and minor children of such reporting person, 
and (2) by any other relative of the reporting person who has the 
same home as such person. 
To add a new section 2 0 6 . 5 0 ^ as follows: 
(
k ) 
Proposals of security holders. - (1) If any security 
holder entitled to vote at a meeting of security holders of the bank 
shall submit to the management of the bank, within the time herein-
after specified, a proposal which is accompanied by notice of his 
intention to present the proposal for action at the meeting, the 
management shall set forth the proposal in its proxy statement and 
shall identify it in its form of proxy and provide means by which 
security holders can approve or disapprove the proposal. The 
management of the bank shall not be required by this section to 
include the proposal in its proxy statement for an annual meeting 
unless the proposal is submitted to management not less than 60 days 
in advance of a day corresponding to the first date on which the 

-2- 
8 8 3 0 
management's Statement was released to security holders in 
connection with the preceding annual meeting of security holders. 
A proposal to be presented at any other meeting shall be submitted 
to the management of the bank a reasonable time before the solici-
tation is made. This section 206.5(k) shall not apply, however, 
to elections to office. 
(2) If the management opposes the proposal, it shall also, 
at the written request of the security holder, include in the proxy 
statement (i) the name and address of the security holder, or a 
statement that such name and address will be furnished upon request, 
and (ii) a statement of the security holder (which shall not include 
such name and address) of not more than 100 words in support of the 
proposal. The statement and request of the security holder shall 
be furnished to the management at the same time that the proposal 
is furnished. Neither the management nor the bank shall be 
responsible for such statement. 
(3) Notwithstanding the foregoing subparagraphs (1) and 
(2), the management may omit a proposal and any statement in support 
thereof from its proxy statement and form of proxy under any of the 
following circumstances: 
(i) if the proposal is impossible to accomplish 
or, under applicable law, is not a proper subject for 
action by security holders; or 
(ii) if the 
proposal consists of a recommendation 
or request that the management take action with respect 

-3-
t it >» i 1 
to a matter relating to the conduct of the 
ordinary business operations of the bank; or 
(iii) if it appears that the proposal is submitted 
by the security holder principally for the purpose 
of enforcing a personal claim or redressing a per-
sonal grievance against the bank or its management, 
or principally for the purpose of promoting general 
economic, political, racial, religious, social, or 
similar causes; or 
(iv) if the management has at the security 
holder's request included a proposal in its proxy 
statement and form of proxy relating to either of 
the two preceding annual meetings of security holders 
or any special meeting held subsequent to the earlier 
of such two annual meetings, and such security holder 
has failed without good cause to present the proposal, 
in person or by proxy, for action at the meeting; or 
(v) if substantially the same proposal has pre-
viously been submitted to security holders in the 
management's proxy statement and form of proxy relating 
to any meeting of security holders held within the 
preceding five calendar years, it may be omitted from 
the proxy statement relating to any meeting of security 
holders held within the three calendar years after the 
latest such previous submission, provided that (a) if 

3 8 8 2 
the proposal was submitted at only one meeting during 
such preceding period, it received less than 5 per cent 
of the total number of votes cast in regard thereto, or 
( b) if the proposal was submitted at only two meetings 
during such preceding period, it received at the time 
of its second submission less than 10 per cent of the 
total number of votes cast in regard thereto, or (c) 
if the proposal was submitted at three or more meetings 
during such period, it received at the time of its 
latest submission less than 20 per cent of the total 
number of votes cast in regard thereto; or 
(vi) if, prior to the receipt of such proposal, 
substantially the same proposal has been received by 
the management from another security holder and is to 
be included in the bank's proxy soliciting material. 
(4) Whenever the management asserts that a proposal and 
any statement in support thereof may properly be omitted from the 
Proxy statement and form of proxy, it shall file with the Board, not 
later than 20 days prior to the date the preliminary copies of the 
proxy statement and form of proxy are filed pursuant to § 206.5(f)(1) 
°r such shorter period prior to such date as the Board may permit, a 
copy of the proposal and any statement in support thereof as received 
from the security holder, together with a statement of the reasons 
w h V the management deems such omission to be proper in the particular 
C a s e »
 
a n d »
 w h e r e such reasons are based on matters of law, a supporting 

383 
opinion of counsel. The management shall at the same time, if it 
has not already done so, notify the security holder submitting 
the proposal of its intention to omit the proposal from its proxy 
statement and shall forward to him a copy of the statement of the 
reasons why the management deems the omission of the proposal to 
be proper and a copy of such supporting opinion of counsel. 
To amend section 206.5(d) to read as follows: 
(new language is 
underscored) 
(d) Requirements as to proxy. (1) The form of proxy 
(A) shall indicate in bold-face type whether or not the proxy is 
solicited on behalf of the management of the bank, (B) shall pro-
vide a specifically designated blank space for dating the proxy, 
and (C) shall identify clearly and impartially each matter or 
group of related matters intended to be acted upon, whether pro-
posed by the management or by security holders. No reference 
need be made, however, to proposals as to which discretionary 
authority is conferred pursuant to subparagraph (3). 
(2) 
(No change.) 
(3) A proxy may confer discretionary authority with 
respect to other matters that may come before the meeting, if 
(A) the persons on whose behalf the solicitation is made are not 
aware a reasonable time prior to the time the solicitation is made 
that any such other matters are to be presented for action at the 
meeting and (B) a specific statement to that effect, except with 
respect to proposals omitted pursuant to section 206.5(k) for 
ghlch discretionary authnr«* y m a y 
a l s o 
h e 
r n n f p r r p H [ 
l s m a d e 
i n 
the proxy statement or form of proxy. 

38P.4 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
• F THE 
10/2/67 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 2, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear Mr. Francis: 
. 
r • . ("j; 
,' ; . .. ; 
The Board of Governors approves payment of 
salary to Mr. Eugene A. Leonard as Vice President of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis and Manager of 
the Memphis Branch at the rate of $22,000 per annum 
for the period November 1 through December 31, 1967. 
This is the rate fixed by your Board of Directors as 
reported in your letter of September 14. It is noted 
that John W. Menges, now Vice President and Manager 
of the Memphis Branch, will transfer to the head 
office and assume senior operating responsibilities, 
effective November 1. 
'OT.i •':< 
0 u '•'""» ?>•; 
Vf . 
v'a 
>-
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

*} Q o cr 
1 > o . « o 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O. C. 3 Q 5 5 I 
Item No. 3 
10/2/67 
OFFICE OF THE VICE 
C H A I R M A N 
October 2, 1967. 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Attention: Mrs. Garziglia 
(Deliver to Room 253 
Executive Office Building) 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request for views and 
recommendations on the enrolled bill S-1862 entitled "Small 
Business Act Amendments of 1967." 
In reviewing the enrolled bill it has been noted 
that a new provision would forbid any bank to acquire shares 
in any small business investment company if, upon making 
that acquisition, the bank would hold 50 per cent or more of 
any class of voting stock of the small business investment 
company. While we doubt the wisdom of this provision, we 
otter no objection to the approval of the enrolled bill. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF 
BOSTON 
3 0 P E A R L 
S T R E E T 
Item No. 4 
10/2/67 
October 2, 1967 
Board of Directors 
The Connecticut I n k and Trust Company 
Ooe Constitution Pint 
Hertford, Connecticut 
X 
Contlt—n: 
On behalf of the Bo 
<*<Ugstsd authority, this Ban 
•T Tht Connecticut Bank and 
|rd of Governors, acting under 
: has apptoeodjtho establishment 
net Company, jartford, Connecticut 
Of a branch at 137 Boaton Post Road, Uatarford, Connecticut 
Provided tha branch la aatabllshod within ona year fron tha 
<Uta of thla lattar. 
In approving thla br 
given to the aoond financial 
of your bank. Nor 
that the proposed branch will 
®
f 
c a » i l t l e s and establll 
t # n d t® creata an undealrable 
atIon haa been 
he aatlsfactory 
on detenslned 
lence and needs 
branch will not 
situation. 
Sincerely» 

38 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
Item No. 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
1 0 / 2 / 6 7 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60690 
(312) HA 7-2320 
October 2, 1967 
Mr. Ted J. Welch, President 
Peoples Beak end Trust Coqpany 
Cedar ftsplds, Iovm 
Deer Mr. Welch: 
Pursuant to authority delegated by the Board of 
Governors, we hereby approve your request for pernlsslon to 
establish a branch on first Avenue Bast between Thirty-fifth 
8trset, I. £., and Shirty-sixth Street, V. E«, Cedar Rapids, 
Iowa, provided the branch is established within a period of 
twelve mnnths after tbs date hereof. 
Incident to the establishment of the branch, we approve 
investment by the bank of $175,000 in building and iB^rovements 
for the branch. This approval is granted pursuant to the provis-
ions of Section 2kk of the federal Reserve Act and is also made 
by us under authority delegated by the Board of Governors. It is 
our understanding that the site is to be purchased by an affiliate 
of the bank for $180,000 of which $100,000 will be financed through 
borrowing from another lender. 
Approval of your request to establish the branch is based 
on our conclusions that the bank is in satisfactory condition, capital 
is adequate and establ 1 shasnt of the branch would pexmlt tbs bank to 
better serve existing end potential trade in the branch area without 
creating any undesirable competitive situation. 
Very truly yours. 
JSBMS R . Morrison 
Chief Ivan! nor 
JflKitJf 
y 
00 - Board of Governors / 
C O P Y 
VI 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
2J0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60W0 
Item No. 6 
012) HA 7-2320 
10/2/67 
October 2, 1967 
Mr. John F. Sarvis 
Vicc President and Casliier 
Genesee i&rcliants Ean^ & Trust Co. 
Flint 1, Michigan 
to inc : u'.U a 
Ifcar Mr. Sarvis: 
-y- J-. I 
IC-V 
.Oji • 
Oi "behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this 33ai& grants an eiransion of six 
raonths from October 20, 1957, .of the tine within which your 
bank ray establish a branch at the intersection of East First 
street and Harrison Street, Flint, Iliehi^an. 
Very truly yours, 
2. 0. Faits 
Assistant Vice President 
Cr.,.; iswan aurt'ia". 
C v v --• ir n . • r it o b: • „* .. » o c 
V 
GuvciruorIcchci L 
E0F:rk 
CovCi ;v - ;.,.., 
cc - Mr. Mcrritt Sherman 
Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau 
Examiner's file 
' • 
-xov. Shorti; 
; 
. 
