Minutes for June 7, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 
Increase in margin requirements. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the meet-
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
1 : . • • f >;• , ? 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, June 7, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Eckert, Keir, Ettin, 
Fry, and Kichline of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Hersey, Katz, Wood, 
Bradshaw, Gekker, Roxon, and Stem of the 
Division of International Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Keir reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market, Mr. Fry commented on recent and prospec-
tive bank credit developments, and Mr. Bradshaw summarized gold and 
foreign exchange market developments. Copies of the several charts 

6/7/68 
-2-
and tables distributed in connection with today's review have been 
placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Brill, Solomon, Partee, and Sammons 
withdrew from the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Porter, Attorney, Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Lougee, and Wiles, Economists, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Goodfellow, Review Examiner, Division of 
Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Fed-
eral Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco 
on June 6, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their exist-
ing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in 
the proposed merger of First State Bank, Killeen, Texas, with American 
National Bank of Killeen was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of First State 
Bank, Killeen, and American National Bank of Killeen would 
permanently preclude restoration of competition which 
existed between them prior to their affiliation. While 

12135 
6/7/68 
-3-
the two banks involved in this proposal are relatively 
small, they did prior to their affiliation represent two 
of three banks serving the community of Killeen with a 
population of about 30,000. The overall effect of the 
proposal on competition would be adverse. 
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The First National Bank of 
Hatch, Hatch, New Mexico, into First National Bank of Dona Ana County, 
Las Cruces, New Mexico, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
It appears very little competition existed between 
First National Bank of Dona Ana County, Las Cruces, and 
The First National Bank of Hatch prior to their affilia-
tion. The overall effect of the proposal on competition 
would not be adverse. 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
Item No. 
Letter to Chemical International Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent to the acquisition of shares of 
Breisach & Schoeller Bankkommanditgesellschaft, 
Vienna, Austria. 
1 
Telegrams to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
York authorizing the opening and maintenance 
of accounts in the names of (1) Central Bank 
of Trinidad and Tobago, and (2) Central Bank 
of Malta, respectively. 
2-3 
Policy record entry. There had been distributed a memorandum 
from Mr. Broida dated June 5, 1968, submitting a revised draft of 

213G 
6/7/68 
-4-
policy record entry covering the meeting of the Federal Open Market 
Committee on March 14, 1968. The entry had been approved by the Board 
on May 23, 1968, and no further suggestions for changes had been 
received. It was proposed to release the entry to the press on Wednes-
day, June 12, with subsequent publication in the June Federal Reserve 
Bulletin, and the entry was being submitted at this time for final 
review. 
The release to the press on Wednesday, June 12, of the entry 
relating to the March 14 meeting was approved unanimously. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Broida, 
Forrestal, Brill, Sherman, Molony, Fauver, Hexter, Solomon (Examina-
tions), Partee, and Sammons and Miss Wolcott then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
Margin requirements (Items 4-7). There had been distributed 
memoranda dated June 6, 1968, from the Capital Markets Section and 
Mr. Partee relating to stock market credit and margin requirements. 
The memorandum from the Capital Markets Section reviewed stock market 
developments since late March 1968, the report being documented with 
tables and charts. Particular note was taken of the sharp increase in 
stock prices and the sharp rise in the volume of transactions, particu-
larly on the American Stock Exchange. 
Mr. Partee, in his memorandum, pointed out that the recent 
performance of the stock market and of stock market credit would 

2137 
6/7/68 
-5-
support the view that an increase in margin requirements was warranted 
at this time. There were many indications of increased speculative 
activity. The latest market upsurge was too recent to permit much 
factual information to be gathered. However, margin debt increased 
$200 million in April and the number of new margin accounts opened in 
the month--estimated at 20,000--was relatively large. The status of 
most margin accounts was close to the 70 per cent margin, with the 
result that increases in collateral values were pushing accounts into 
unrestricted status and generating special miscellaneous account bal-
ances that could be used for additional stock purchases without new 
equity money. Accordingly, credit could be pyramided by margin 
traders on the basis of paper profits. 
The memorandum also pointed out that if the expected fiscal 
program was enacted it was possible there would be a slow-down in 
business growth and a developing squeeze on profit margins, with 
resultant lessening of speculative exuberance. If this should happen, 
an increase in margin requirements might not be necessary. On the 
other hand, speculative activity in the market currently appeared to 
be very strong. Investors were aware that fiscal action was probable, 
yet stock prices continued to move upward. Apparently there was a 
feeling that the long-range movement would be upward and near-term 
profit prospects were of little concern. The market could continue 
to advance on its own momentum, in which case a margin move now would 
be a constructive action. 

2 3 . 3 8 
> 
6/7/68 
-6-
If the Board should decide that margin action was warranted at 
this time, Mr. Partee suggested that initial stock margins be raised 
from 70 to 80 per cent, that margins on convertible bonds be raised 
from 50 per cent to 60 per cent, and that retention requirements remain 
unchanged at 70 per cent. 
At the request of the Chairman, Mr. Partee reviewed the general 
situation, his comments being based principally on the information con-
tained in the distributed material. 
Governor Daane then inquired whether Mr. Partee saw any reason 
for an initial margin requirement of higher than 80 per cent in order 
to combat speculative overtones. Mr. Partee noted that a policy ques-
tion was involved and said he would have no good judgment as to what 
the psychological impact might be. However, margin requirements were 
presently quite high, and the ability of individuals to borrow was 
fairly well exhausted. In addition, an increase to 90 per cent or to 
100 per cent might result in a fair-sized jolt to the market if the 
action were interpreted as reflecting knowledge on the part of the 
Board of a pending international financial crisis or imminent failure 
of the fiscal restraint program. 
Chairman Martin indicated that he had leaned toward a 90 per 
cent requirement, but that he found Mr. Partee's arguments quite per-
suasive. Announcement of an 80 per cent requirement would not be 
dramatic, but it would indicate that the Board was aware of the market 

6/7/68 
-7-
situation. He could not overemphasize his conviction that the securi-
ties market was in difficulty. If that was so, he would hesitate to 
rock the boat unduly, particularly in advance of the proposed tax 
measure, which could still be voted either way. Then, too, there 
would be leeway to move upward at a later date if the situation 
required. 
Governor Daane stated that he would accept the Chairman's 
judgment on the points mentioned although, other things being equal, 
he would lean toward the higher figure. He felt the Board might be 
charged with tardiness, in the light of speculative developments, 
rather than being credited with an awareness of the market situation. 
However, he would go along with the 80 per cent requirement if the 
Chairman thought that was preferable. Some action should be taken, 
and taken quickly. 
Governor Brimmer said that he too found Mr. Partee's arguments 
persuasive and that he would approve the 80 per cent margin require-
ment. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that an increase to 
80 per cent would be sufficient at this juncture. A tax increase that 
should deal a further blow to speculative activities was anticipated, 
and it would be difficult to gauge the effect on the market of a further 
move on margins. 

6/7/68 
-8-
Governor Robertson observed that an increase in the margin 
requirements to 80 per cent would put the Board in a good strategic 
position. If the tax program was not enacted, there would be leeway 
to move upward; if it was enacted and the bite was too great, there 
would be leeway to move down. 
In further discussion Governor Brimmer referred to an article 
in today's New York Times relating to the heavy volume of transactions 
in the over-the-counter market and asked whether Mr. Partee had addi-
tional information. Mr. Partee replied in the negative. He noted, 
however, that it was possible that an increase in margin requirements 
would push more speculators into the over-the-counter market. 
Governor Brimmer then suggested that the Board might combine 
an announcement of an increase in margin requirements from 70 to 
80 per cent with a strong public appeal for authority to deal with 
the over-the-counter market. 
Governor Robertson recalled that H.R. 7696 and S. 1299, bills 
that would extend margin requirements to over-the-counter stocks, had 
been introduced in the House and Senate, respectively, at the request 
of the Board. It seemed to him that a preferable course of action 
would be to seek expeditious handling of the bills through the appro-
priate committees rather than to underscore the Board's interest 
through a public appeal. 

Z1 
6/7/68 
-9-
Ensuing comments revealed general agreement with the approach 
suggested by Governor Robertson. Chairman Martin suggested that a 
public appeal might be counterproductive and added that he would not 
want to see the Board in a position where it might be called upon to 
testify at this stage as to the status of the securities market. 
Discussion then turned to the form of press release, and 
Governor Brimmer suggested that the release make clear that the margin 
move was not a further step toward tightening of monetary policy. Gov-
ernor Robertson agreed and suggested that the release simply state that 
the move was designed to stem excessive activity and speculation in 
the market. Members of the staff reviewed the language in which pre-
vious releases on margin requirements had been couched, noting that 
the emphasis had been on the authority vested in the Board to prevent 
excessive use of credit to finance transactions in securities. Various 
other suggestions were made, and it was agreed that an appropriate pres 
release would be developed by the staff in light of the views expressed 
Unanimous approval was then given to the amendment of the 
Supplements to Regulation T, Credit by Brokers, Dealers, and Members 
of National Securities Exchanges; Regulation U, Credit by Banks for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks; and Regula-
tion G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for 
the Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered Equity Securities, 
effective June 8, 1968, to increase the initial margin requirements 

6/7/68 
-10-
from 70 to 80 per cent on loans made on stocks and from 50 to 60 per 
cent on loans made on convertible bonds, with the understanding that a 
press release would be issued this afternoon. 
Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the amended Supplement to 
Regulation T; attached as Item No. 5 is a copy of the amended Supple-
ment to Regulation U; and attached as Item No. 6 is a copy of the 
amended Supplement to Regulation G. Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy 
of the statement on the Board's action that was released to the press 
today. 
The following then entered the meeting: 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Smith, Counsel, Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta 
Citizens and Southern Community Development Corporation. Mr. 
Hexter stated that Mr. O'Connell would be in Atlanta the first of next 
week to confer with representatives of Citizens and Southern National 
Bank, Savannah, Georgia, on certain questions that had been under dis-
cussion. In the course of the conversations representatives of the 
bank might raise questions as to the staff's thinking on the matter of 
the recently-announced creation of a development corporation, which 
would be a wholly-owned subsidiary of Citizens and Southern National 
Bank. The purpose of the development corporation would be to clean up 
slum areas and to provide funds to low-income minority groups for pur-
chasing homes and establishing small businesses. 

2143 
6/7/68 
-11-
Governor Brimmer and other members of the Board expressed the 
view that no position should be indicated in the conversations with 
Citizens and Southern until the Board had had an opportunity to review 
the matter on the basis of a memorandum submitted to it by the staff. 
Meeting of Trustees of Retirement System. Mr. Holland noted 
that it might be suggested that the meeting of the Trustees of the 
Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks, scheduled to be held 
in Washington on June 19, 1968, be postponed in view of a massive 
civil rights demonstration being planned for that day. 
Reaction of the Board to suggesting a postponement of the meet-
ing was favorable. 
Backstop facilities. After a brief recess the members of the 
Board, with appropriate staff present, considered a draft of letter 
that might be sent to Chairman Martin by the Secretary of the Treasury 
expressing an understanding as to the conditions under which the 
Treasury would be prepared to assist the Federal Reserve in honoring 
commitments under reciprocal currency arrangements with foreign central 
banks. The current draft reflected interagency negotiations on the 
matter. Certain points in the draft, particularly the language relat-
ing to consultation between the System and the Treasury regarding use 
of the swap arrangements, were debated, following which general agree-
ment was reached on a slightly revised draft that would be submitted 
to the Treasury for its further consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2144 
6/7/68 
-12-
Secretary's Notes: Governor Sherrill 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to Dr. Leonel A. de la Cuesta, Harford Junior College, Bel 
Air, Maryland, confirming arrangements for him to give instruction in 
conversational French to members of the Board's staff as an activity 
of the Board's Employee Training and Development Program, with payment 
of a fee of $6 for each session conducted. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Authorization for foreign travel 
Arthur B. Hersey, Adviser in the Division of International Finance, 
to attend a meeting of central bank officials on the Eurocurrency market 
to be held in Basle on July 8-9, 1968, and to spend two days in London 
following the Basle meeting. 
Transfer 
Barbara J. Carter, Clerk-Typist in the Office of the Secretary, 
from Administration and Minutes to the Secretarial Section, with an 
increase in basic annual salary from $4,764 to $5,161, effective 
June 16, 1968. 
On June 7, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
8 
approving the appointment of Gordon N. Peterson, 
Jr., as assistant examiner. 
Letter to Idaho State Bank, Glenns Ferry, Idaho, 
9 
approving the retirement of $50,000 of the bank's 
outstanding preferred stock. 

6/7/68 
-13-
f! By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Item No. 
Letters to Chemical Bank New York Trust 
10-11 
Company, New York, New York, approving the 
establishment of a branch in Mount Vernon, 
Westchester County, and the establishment 
of a branch in New Cassel, Town of North 
Hempstead, Nassau County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to Community Bank and Trust Company, 
12 
Paoli, Pennsylvania, granting an extension 
of time within which to establish a branch 
in Tredyffrin Township, Chester County. 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
13 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch at 11th 
and Walnut Streets. 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
14 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Upper 
Dublin Township, Montgomery County, and 
approving an investment in bank premises. 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
6/7/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C • R R E S P • N D E N r. E 
TO THE BOARD 
June 7, 1968 
Chemical International Banking Corporation, 
20 Pine Street, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
February 21, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold approximately 20 per cent of the 
shares of Breisach & Schoeller Bankkommanditgesellschaft, Vienna, 
Austria, at a cost of approximately US$390,000, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
In granting this consent, the Board has taken into account 
the fact that the commitment of your organization antedated the 
balance-of-payments measures announced January 1, 1968. The foregoing 
consent is given with the understanding that the investment now being 
approved will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corporation, Chemical 
International Finance, Ltd., and Chemical Bank New York Trust Company, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities contained 
therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

<f'l> 
/O 147 
T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
Item No. 2 
6/7/68 
June 7, 1968. 
MacLaury - New York' 
Your wire of June 6. Board approves opening and maintenance 
of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
. 
, •» 
/ » 
i 
V 
in the name of Central Bank of Trinidad and Tobago, subject 
to usual terms and conditions. It is understood that 
participation in this account will be offered to other 
Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE S E R V I C E 
O / / / O O 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
June 7, 1968. 
MacLaury - New York 
Your wire of June 6. Board approves opening and maintenance 
of an account on books of Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
in the name of the Central Bank of Malta, subject to usual 
terms and conditions. It is understood that participation 
in this account will be offered to other Federal Reserve Banks. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 

Z1VJ 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 4 
6/7/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS, DEALERS, AND 
MEMBERS OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES 
Maximum Loan Value of Stocks and Convertible Bonds 
1. Effective June 8, 1968, § 220.8 (the Supplement to 
Regulation T) is hereby amended to read as follows: 
§ 220.8 Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value for general accounts. The maximum loan 
value of securities in a general account subject to § 220.3 shall be: 
(1) of a registered non-equity security held in the account on 
March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter and of a registered equity 
security (except as provided in § 220.3(c) and § 220.8(b) and (c)), 20 
per cent of the current market value of such securities. 
(2) of an exempted security held in the account on March 11, 1968, 
and continuously thereafter the maximum loan value of the security, as 
determined by the creditor in good faith. 
(b) Maximum loan value for a special bond account. The maximum 
loan value of an exempt security and of a registered non-equity security 
pursuant to § 220.4(i) shall be a maximum loan value of the security as 
determined by the creditor in good faith. 

2150 
-2-
(c) Maximum loan value for special convertible debt security 
account. The maximum loan value of a registered equity security eligible 
for a special convertible security account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall be 
40 per cent of the current market value of the security. 
(d) Margin required for short sales. The amount to be included 
in the adjusted debit balance of a general account, pursuant to § 220.3(d)(3), 
as margin required for short sales of securities (other than exempt securities) 
/ I
; 
-
shall be 80 per cent of the current market value of each such security. 
(e) Retention requirement. In the case of an account which would 
have an excess of the adjusted debit balance of the account over the maximum 
loan value of the securities in the account following a withdrawal of cash 
or securities from the account, pursuant to § 220.3(b)(2): 
(1) The "retention requirement" of an exempted security held in 
the general account on March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter shall 
be equal to its maximum loan value as determined by the creditor in good 
faith, and the "retention requirement" of a registered non-equity security 
held in such account on March 11, 1968, and continuously thereafter and of 
a registered equity security shall be 70 per cent of the current market 
value of the security. 
(2) In the case of a special bond account subject to § 220.4(i), 
the retention requirement of an exempted security and of a registered non-
equity security shall be equal to the maximum loan value of the security. 
(3) In the case of a special convertible security account subject 
t o § 220.4(j) which would have an excess of the adjusted debit balance of 
fche account over the maximum loan value of the securities in the account 

2151 
-3-
following a withdrawal of cash or securities from the account, the 
retention requirement of a security having a loan value in the account 
shall be 70 per cent of the current market value of the security. 
(4) For the purpose of effecting a transfer from a general 
account to a special convertible security account subject to § 220.4(j), 
the retention requirement of a security described in § 220.4(j) shall be 
70 per cent of its current market value. 
(f) Securities having no loan value in general account. No 
securities other than an exempted security or a registered non-equity 
security held in the account on March 11, 1968, and continuously there-
after, and a registered equity security shall have any loan value in a 
general account except that a registered equity security eligible for the 
special convertible security account pursuant to § 220.4(j) shall have 
loan value only if held in the account on March 11, 1968, and continuously 
thereafter. 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to section 7(b) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(b)) in order to prevent 
the excessive use of credit to finance transactions in securities. 
b. The requirements of section 553(b), Title 5, United States 
Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
date were not followed in connection with this amendment because the 

-4-
Board found that the stock market credit situation and the public interest 
compelled it to make the action effective no later than the date adopted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 7th day of June, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2153 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
I t e m N o > 5 
6/7/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE 
OF PURCHASING OR CARRYING REGISTERED 
SECURITIES 
Maximum Loan Value of Stocks and Convertible Bonds 
1. Effective June 8, 1968, § 221.4 (the Supplement to 
Regulation U) is hereby amended to read as follows: 
§ 221.4 Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value of stocks. For the purpose of 
§ 221.1, the maximum loan value of any stock, whether or not registered 
on a national securities exchange, shall be 20 per cent of its current 
market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible debt securities sub-
ject to § 221.3(t). For the purpose of § 221.3(t), the maximum loan 
value of any security against which credit is extended pursuant to 
§ 221.3(t) shall be 40 per cent of its current market value, as deter-
mined by any reasonable method. 
(c) Retention requirement. For the purpose of § 221.1, in 
the case of a loan which would exceed the maximum loan value of the 
collateral following a withdrawal of collateral, the "retention require-
ment" of a stock, whether or not registered on a national securities 
exchange, and of a convertible debt security subject to § 221.3(t), 
shall be 70 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any 
reas onable me thod. 

-2" 
2154 
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to section 7(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(b)) in order to 
prevent the excessive use of credit to finance transactions in securities. 
b. The requirements of section 553(b), Title 5, United States 
Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
date were not followed in connection with this amendment because the Board 
found that the stock market credit situation and the public interest com-
pelled it to make the action effective no later than the date adopted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 7th day of June, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

" 
trcr 
(OJ.OO 
Item No. 6 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
6/7/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
PART 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Maximum Loan Value of Stocks and Convertible Bonds 
1. Effective June 8, 1968, § 207.5 (the Supplement to Regula-
tion G) is hereby amended to read as follows: 
§ 207.5 Supplement. 
(a) Maximum loan value of registered equity securities. For 
the purpose of § 207.1, the maximum loan value of any registered equity 
security, except convertible securities subject to § 207.1(d), shall be 
20 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any reasonable 
method. 
(b) Maximum loan value of convertible debt securities subject 
to § 207.1 (d) . For the purpose of § 207.1, the maximum loan value of any 
security against which credit is extended pursuant to § 207.1(d) shall be 
40 per cent of its current market value, as determined by any reasonable 
method. 
(c) Retention requirement. For the purpose of § 207.1, in the 
case of a loan which would exceed the maximum loan value of the collateral 
following a withdrawal of collateral, the "retention requirement" of a 
registered equity security and of a security against which credit is 
extended pursuant to § 207.1(d) shall be 70 per cent of its current 
market value, as determined by any reasonable method. 

-2-
2a. This amendment is issued pursuant to section 7(b) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g(b)) in order to prevent 
the excessive use of credit to finance transactions in securities. 
b. The requirements of section 553(b), Title 5, United States 
Code, with respect to notice, public participation, and deferred effective 
date were not followed in connection with this amendment because the Board 
found that the stock market credit situation and the public interest 
compelled it to make the action effective no later than the date adopted. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 7th day of June 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
'•f^LREf. 
For iir.mediate release 
Item No. 7 
6/7/68 
June 7, 1968 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
amended its regulations relating to stock market credit to increase 
the margin requirement from 70 to 80 per cent on loans made on stocks, 
effective tomorrow, June 8. 
The Board also increased the margin requirement on loans 
made on convertible bonds from 50 to 60 per cent, effective tcmorrow. 
The requirements apply to new extensions of credit by 
brokers (governed by the Board's Regulation T), by banks (Regulation U), 
and by other lenders (Regulation G) for the purpose of purchasing or 
carrying stocks, or bonds convertible into such stocks, listed on a 
national securities exchange. 
The margin increases were made pursuant to authority granted 
in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to prevent excessive use of credit 
to finance transactions in securities. The Board noted, in this con-
nection, that margin credit of brokerage customers had increased $200 
million in April alone, bringing the total of margin credit outstanding 
at brokerage houses to $6.4 billion. Also, there were indications of a 
further rise in May. The recent increases in stool: marl.et credit mark 
a resumption of the upward trend observed during 19C-7 wh^n such credit 
rose 29 per cent at brokerage houses aid 19 per cent at commercial banks. 

.2. 
2 1 5 8 
The Board's action applies to initial margin requirements. 
No change was made in the 70 per cent retention requirement applicable 
to undermargined accounts. The "retention requirement" relates to that 
portion of the proceeds of a sale of securities from an account that 
must be retained if that account does not comply with the new 80 per 
cent margin requirement. 
This action was taken by unanimous vote of the five Board 
members present: Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, Daane, 
Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Attached are the revised texts of the Supplements to 
Regulations G, T, and U. 

..^OFGOVs' 
2159 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 8 
6/7/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CDRRE9PQNDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 10, 1968 
Mr. Joseph R. Campbell, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
19101 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in your letter of June 5, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the 
Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves 
the appointment of Gordon N. Peterson, Jr. as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia. Please advise the effective date of 
the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2160 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
6/7/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
June 11, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Idaho State Bank, 
Glenns Ferry, Idaho. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors 
under delegated authority, approves under the pro-
visions of section 9 of the Federal Reserve Act 
the retirement of $50,000 outstanding preferred 
stock of Idaho State Bank, Glenns Ferry, Idaho. 
Senior Vice President Wheeler's letter of 
May 15, 1968, indicates that this reduction of 
preferred stock will be effected by Knab Corporation 
surrendering 500 shares of preferred stock in exchange 
for notes held in your bank's loan portfolio of doubt-
ful 
collectibility. It is understood that such notes 
will be those classified either doubtful or loss in 
the last examination report of your bank prepared by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

w 
Item No. 10 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
6/7/68 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
?J 7 
P " ? 
Mr. John J. O'Connell 
Vice President 
kemical Bank New York Trust Company 
Pine Street 
New York, New York 
10015 
Sear Mr. O'Connell: 
We refer to your bank's application dated March 19, 1968, 
requesting permission to establish a branch office at the northwest 
N j n o r of South Pulton and Franklin Avenues, Mount Vernon, West-
chapter County, New York, 
After reviewing the application in the 
of the factors enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) 
of the Rules 
ding Delegation of Authority issued by the Board of Governors 
e Federal Reserve System, we have concluded that your applica-
should be approved. 
Accordingly, on behalf of the Board of 
overnors, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting under dele-
ted authority, approves the establishment by your bank of a branch 
ice at the above-mentioned location, provided it is established 
^-hin one year from the date of this letter, and provided further 
-hat the branch at V Secor Lane, Pelham Manor, Westchester County, 
New York, is closed simultaneously with the opening of the branch 
at its new location. 
We shall appreciate your advising us when the new branch 
actually established and opened for business, and when opera-
r-ons at the existing office have been discontinued. 
In addition, 
vould you please let us know the name, if any, by which the branch 
be known, and the official postal address, including the zip 
code number. 
Kindly acknowledge receipt of this letter by signing and 
Returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours, 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice President 
Enclosure 
DO; 

r' 
2-4/67 
I t e m 
N O / 4 I I ; 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 
6/7/68 
NEW YORK. NEW YORK 10045 
June 7, 
1 9 6 8 
Hr. John B. Mencke 
;lce President 
Chemical Bank lev Tork Trust Coapany 
Pine Street 
^ • Y o r k , lav Tork 
10015 
Mr. Mencke: 
* 
Via rafor to /our bank's application latad May 1, 19&8, 
r,<iuekting permission to establish a branch office on the north 
Lt Old Country Road, about T8 feet east of Bond Street, »ev 
c*»*4l (unincorporated araa), Town of Borth Hempstead, Vassau 
" 
Xav Tork* 
After reviewing the application in the light 
the factora enumerated in Section 265.2(f)(1) of the Rules 
" rding Delegation of Authority issued by the Board of Governors 
r-he Federal Reeerve System, ve have concluded that your applica 
n ahould be approved. 
Accordingly, on behalf of tha Board of 
Governora, the Federal Reserve Bank of lav Tork, acting undar 
gated authority, approves the eetabliahaent by your bank of 
* branch office at the above-mentioned location, provided it is 
••tabiiahed vithin one year of the date of this letter. 
We shall appreciate your adviaing ua vhen the branch 
B actually establiahed and opened for buainess, giving the 
Jtfective date of opening, the name, if any, by vhich it will 
b® knovn, and the official postal address, including the zip 
c°4e number. 
Please acknowledge receipt of thia letter by signing 
returning the enclosed copy to us. 
Very truly yours. 
Fred W. Piderit, Jr. 
Tice President 
C l o s u r e 
^ifiu 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
item NO 
P H I L A D E L P H I A , PENNSYLVANIA 
19101 
6/7/68 
CNT o r 
• NATION 
' June 7, 1968 
Mr. H. Fred Miller, President 
Community Bank and Trust Company 
24 East Lancaster Avenue 
Paoli, Pennsylvania 19301 
Dear Mr. Miller: 
Under date of July 14, 1965, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approved the establishment by Community 
Bank and Trust Company of an out-of-town branch office at the north-
east corner of the intersection of Routes 202 and 363 in Tredyffrin 
Township, Chester County, Pennsylvania, provided the branch was 
established within one year of the aforesaid date. 
Under date of June 6, 1966, you were advised that the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System had extended for 
six months from July 14, 1966, the time within which your bank 
could establish a branch at the subject location. 
On December 21, 1966, you were advised that the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System had extended to January 14, 
1968, the time within which your bank could establish the proposed 
branch. 
Under date of October 24, 1967, you were advised that 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, acting under delegated 
authority from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
granted an additional extension for six months from January 14, 1968 
°f the time within which the proposed branch could be established. 
Your letter of June 5, 1968 states that construction of 
the shopping center in which the branch office is to be located 
conmenced about three weeks ago and that it is expected the center 
vill be completed and opened by the end of 1968. Accordingly, you 
request a further extension of six months of the period within which 
the branch may be established. We note that you expect the office 
to be ready for occupancy within this period. 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
Pa<*no. 
2 
TO 
Mr. H. Fred Miller, President 
2164 
6/7/68 • 
This is to advise you that the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Philadelphia, acting under delegated authority from the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, extends for six months 
from July 14, 1968 the time within which Community Bank and Trust 
Company may establish a branch office at the northeast corner of 
the intersection of Routes 202 and 363 in Tredyffrin Township, 
Chester County, Pennsylvania. 
Yours sincerely, 
/ 
y/oseph R. Campbell 
( 
S 
Vice President 

2 1 / 6 5 
FEDERAL RESERVE 
BANK OF 
PHILADELPHIA 
PHILADELPHIA. PENNSYLVANIA 
19101 
Item No. 13 
6/7/68 
June 7, 1968 
Mr. Howard C. Petersen, Chairman 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania I9IO9 
Dear Mr. Petersen: 
Under date of Jam 
of the Federal Reserve Syste: 
The Fidelity Bank of a branch 
section of 10th and 
provided the branc 
aforesaid date. ><Jn 
of your bank intro: 
at the northwest c' 
delphia, Pennsy. 
\t Stree 
is establish' 
3,\967 . 
^the br 
and 
Board of Governors 
establishment by 
ity of the inter-
adelphia, Pennsylvania, 
one year of the 
Treasurer Aaronson 
s to be established 
Streets, Fhila-
Ler datfc of^Dep^mbej/^, 1967 you vere advised that 
thfT'BoprcL 
Dovernore orthe/Federal Reserve System had ex-
fendpti. for^six months ^om^danuary 18, 1968 the time within 
ii4h your bank^Snay establish a branch at the northwest corner 
and WalnuV Streets, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
ir cj^te of June 6, 1968 Assistant Vice President 
Aaron^sm frris advised us the subject branch may not be quite 
ready fog^ pptrhlng by July 18, 1968; although opening on that 
day is anticipated, in order to be sure time will not have ex-
pired by opening date Mr. Aaronson has asked for an extension. 
This is to advise you that the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia, acting under delegated authority from the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, has extended 
for six months from July 18, 1968 the time within which your 
bank may establish a branch at the northwest corner of 11th and 
Walnut Streets, Riiladelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Yours sincerely, 
3• 1. Oirr-
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
item NO. 14 
PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA 
19101 
6/7/68 
Cr R™C N T
 or 
K Examination 
June 7, 1968 
Jjf- Carl K. Dellmuth, President 
Fidelity Bank 
°toad and Walnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19109 
Dear Mr. Dellmuth: 
Under date of December 9, 1965, the Board of Governors of 
e Federal Reserve System approved the establishment by The Fidelity Bank 
^ a branch office in the vicinity of the intersection of Limekiln Pike and 
eshertown Road, Upper Dublin Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania, 
°vided the branch was established within one year of the aforesaid date. 
> 
o 
On November 2, 1966, you were advised that the Board of 
ernors of the Federal Reserve System extended for six months from 
^cember 9, 1966, the time within which the branch office could be 
stabli8hed at the subject location. 
j. 
Under date of May 26, 1967, the Board of Governors of the 
Reserve System extended to June 9, 1968, the time within which tl 
elity Bank could establish the proposed office. 
0 
Your letter of June 5, 1968 states that it had been planned 
by finally to locate the branch in a shopping center proposed to be constructed 
Ho ,*enn 
Company on the northeast corner of Limekiln Pike and Dreshertown 
was ' ^PPer Dublin Township. However, since construction of the shopping center 
le
 
t o ke delayed for several years, The Fidelity Bank entered into a long-term 
j>^Se 
approximately one acre of ground on the northwest corner of Limekiln 
a k6 anc* dreshertown Road, Upper Dublin Township and commenced construction of 
q r a n ch banking office. We understand that the office is under roof and that 
ePtember, 1968, opening of the office is planned. Accordingly, you request 
0pe®xtjen8ion of six months in the time in which the proposed branch may be 
a 
This is to advise you that the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, 
cje^lng on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System under 
vhi
e8ated authority, extends for six months from June 9, 1968, the time within 
ch The Fidelity Bank may establish a branch on the northwest corner of 
Pike and Dreshertown Road, Upper Dublin Township, Bucks County, 
enn*ylvania. 

PEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA 
P*GENO. 
2 
TO 
Mr. Carl K. Dellmuth, President 
6/7/68 
In connection with the establishment of the proposed branch, the 
oard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, under date of December 9, 
65> approved, under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal Reserve 
ncc> an additional investment of $40,000. in bank premises incident to the 
establishment of the proposed office. Your letter of June 5, 1968, states • 
due to the postponement of the construction of the proposed shopping 
enter necessitating the leasing of ground for the proposed branch and the" 
^sumption of all costs incident to the construction of the office, The 
^ elity Bank's investment in bank premises will be increased tp $215,000. 
^ccordingly you request authorization under Section 24A of the Federal 
s e r v e Act for an additional investment in bank premises of $175,000., 
ne excess over the $40,000. approved originally. 
, 
Under the provisions of Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act 
the U' S , C' 3
7
1
t
h
e 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, on behalf of 
del B° a r d 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System and acting under 
of ^ g a t e d authority from said Board, approves an additional investment 
?175,000. by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, in bank 
^mises in connection with the establishment of your proposed branch 
Dr tuC n o r t h w e s t corner of the intersection of Limekiln Road and 
Thi 
r t 0 W n R o a c 1 , Upper Dublin Township, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. 
8 approval increase s the amount that may be invested in bank premises 
Thi t h l S b r a n c h> u n d e r Section 24A of the Federal Reserve Act, to $215,000. 
8 approval is granted in view of the following factors: 
The capitalization of The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, at present is considered adequate in relation 
to the character and condition of its assets and to its 
deposit liabilities and other corporate responsibilities, 
including the volume of its risk assets and of its marginal 
and inferior quality assets, all considered in relation to 
the strength of the bank's management. 
Upon completion of the proposed investment, the bank's aggregate 
investment (direct and indirect) in bank premises plus the in-
debtedness of any wholly-owned bank premises subsidiary will not 
exceed 40 percent of the bank's total capital funds (including 
capital notes and debentures) plus valuation reserves. 
Yours sincerely, 
Joseph R. Campbell 
Vice President 
