MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 8, 1969 

1543 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 8, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Shull, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 

5/8/69 
-13-
Miss Ormsby of the Office of the Secretary 
Mrs. Duerson and Mr. Mertz of the Legal 
Division 
Messrs. Kichline, Putnam, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The Salem Trust Company, 
Salem, New Hampshire, and The Indian Head National Bank of Nashua, 
Nashua, New Hampshire, was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller 
of the Currency, Governor Robertson dissenting. The conclusion was 
stated as follows: 
There is no significant competition existing between 
The Salem Trust Company and The Indian Head National Bank 
of Nashua, a subsidiary of New Hampshire Bankshares, Inc., 
Nashua, a registered bank holding company. However, there 
is potential for increased competition between them in 
view of State statutes regarding de novo branching. Fur-
ther, competition existing between The Salem Trust Company 
and The First National Bank of Derry, a subsidiary of New 
Hampshire Bankshares, Inc., would be eliminated. Consum-
mation of the proposed merger would increase slightly the 
concentration of banking resources held by the largest 
banking organization in the State. The overall competi-
tive effect of the proposal would be adverse. 
In response to a question, Mr. Shull explained that in evaluat-
ing the merger the Banking Markets Section had viewed nearby Massachu-
setts banks as within the relevant market. The Research Department of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston had not taken into account the 
competition those banks might provide and had therefore reached the 
somewhat stronger conclusion of "substantially adverse." Governor 
Robertson's dissent reflected his view that the effect on competition 
should be characterized as substantially adverse. 

1545 
5/8/69 
-11-
A report ori the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Lincoln National Bank and Trust Company of Fort Wayne, Fort 
Wayne, Indiana, into Allen County National Bank, also of Fort Wayne, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, the conclusion being stated as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Lincoln 
National Bank and Trust Company of Fort Wayne, Fort 
Wayne, Indiana, with Allen County National Bank, 
Fort Wayne, Indiana, would have no adverse competi-
tive effects. 
Report on financial developments (Item No. 1). There had 
been distributed a memorandum from Mr. Brill dated May 2, 1969, sub-
mitting a draft of the report on financial developments for the first 
quarter of 1969, prepared for transmission to the Joint Economic 
Committee. 
Board members were in general agreement with the draft; Gover-
nor Mitchell reported that he had given suggestions for a few editorial 
changes directly to Mr. Brill. Governor Daane raised a question as to 
whether more emphasis should be given to the money supply, perhaps by 
including a single table of selected indicators. Mr. Brill noted that 
any information such a table would provide was already included on 
page 2 and/or page 7; he suggested that this adaptation was more 
consistent with the analytical flow in the text. Governor Daane then 
suggested that when the second quarter report was prepared some consid-
eration might be given to recasting the treatment if the Board concluded 

154G 
5/8/69 
-4-
a sharper focus was needed. It was agreed, however, that a single 
inflexible format would be undesirable and that such adaptations as 
seemed appropriate in each individual report should be made. 
Governor Robertson questioned the appropriateness of extending 
a report beyond the quarter with which it was concerned, noting the 
final sentence of the first paragraph which reported the early April 
increases in the discount rate and reserve requirements. It was 
generally agreed that this reference should be dropped and reserved 
for the report on second quarter developments. 
The report, with the suggested changes, was then approved for 
transmittal to the Joint Economic Committee. A copy of the transmittal 
letter, with accompanying report, is attached under Item No. 1. 
"Laundry list" for one-bank holding companies. Continuing the 
previous day's discussion, the Board discussed the specific items in 
the draft "laundry list" (revision of section 4(c)(8) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act) submitted in Mr. Cardon's memorandum of May 5, 
1969. 
Views continued to differ on the parenthetical expression in 
item (A), which would have the effect of prohibiting bank holding 
company ownership of thrift institutions. Governors Mitchell and 
Daane continued to hold that allowing such ownership would be undesir-
able, chiefly because of possible elimination of competition between 
these institutions and commercial banks; they therefore favored 

1547 
5/8/69 
-11-
retention of the parenthetical material. Governor Robertson pointed 
out that the acquisition of commercial banks, which he felt generally 
offered more competition to one another than existed inter-industry 
(a statement that Governor Mitchell questioned as far as the liability 
side was concerned) would not be prohibited, and Mr. Cardon added that 
a specific decision, taking into account the impact on competition, 
would have to be made in the case of each proposed acquisition. 
Governor Sherrill repeated his previously-expressed position 
that the best hope for preservation of thrift institutions in their 
present form lay in providing an opportunity for them to become related 
to banks. When Governor Mitchell suggested that a lessening of competi-
tion had resulted from allowing ownership of commercial banks by mutual 
savings banks in New England, Governor Sherrill observed that in those 
cases it had not been necessary, in establishing the relationships, to 
seek the prior approval that would be required under the standards of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. 
It was then generally agreed, because of the differences of 
view, that it would be preferable for the Board not to take a position 
on the issue at this time. While there was some doubt whether the 
taking of a position could in fact be avoided, at least by implication, 
it was assumed that the issue would not be overlooked by the Congress 
and that at that stage the Board could consider how to address the 
question. Further, Mr. Cardon doubted that silence would be taken 

1548 
5/8/69 
-11-
as tacit consent. It was therefore agreed to remove the parenthetical 
material from the present list. 
Turning to item (B), Mr. Cardon reported a staff recommendation 
that the wording be limited to "acting as investment adviser," without 
further qualification, and the Board agreed to that change. 
With regard to item (C), which had to do with mutual funds, 
Mr. Cardon suggested insertion of "open-end" before "investment company," 
and the Board likewise agreed to that change. 
Further on item (C), it was noted that mutual funds did not 
engage in "underwriting" in the usual sense of the word and that the 
term had a special meaning within the industry. It was agreed that the 
staff would attempt to develop alternative language, perhaps replacing 
"underwriting, distributing, or selling" by the single word "operating." 
Governor Robertson also suggested insertion of the phrase "or 
redemption fee" at the end of item (C). He felt that this was in a 
sense a counterpart to a sales load and should be treated comparably. 
Mr. Hexter noted that this question had not arisen during discussion 
of S. 34, but reported that he understood the Securities and Exchange 
Commission felt the bill should be amended to limit redemption fees. 
It was doubtful whether complete elimination would be feasible, how-
ever. It was agreed that the staff would develop appropriate language 
to prohibit at least large redemption fees. 

1549 
5/8/69 
-11-
In item (D) regarding leasing equipment, Governor Robertson 
suggested insertion of the word "initial" prior to "lease." It was 
agreed that this change was necessary, since payment equal to the full 
purchase price could not reasonably be expected for subsequent leases. 
In item (E)--acting as insurance agent or broker--Mr. Cardon 
emphasized that he felt elimination of the bracketed material would 
jeopardize only this item and not the bill as a whole. Board members 
were divided on the appropriateness of bank or bank affiliate partici-
pation in this activity. Governor Robertson was generally opposed; 
Governors Mitchell and Brimmer emphasized the customer convenience 
factor in small communities, where support of an insurance agent out-
side the bank might not be feasible; and Governor Sherrill suggested 
that banks should be allowed to do so through expansion if not acquisi-
tion. Various questions were raised, however, and it was agreed that 
for the present the language should be left unchanged, retaining that 
in the brackets. 
In item (F)--acting as an insurer—it was recalled that Gover-
nor Maisel had requested that the word "solely" be changed. Governor 
Robertson favored its retention, but in line with discussion the 
previous day it was agreed that "principally" should be used. 
In item (G)--accounting and data processing services--Mr. Cardon 
reported that the staff suggested dropping the second part of the 

1550 
5/8/69 
-11-
bracketed material, 
. .in such a manner as to offer significantly 
more efficient use of banking facilities." There was some difference 
of view whether the first part of the bracketed language was needed, 
with Governors Robertson and Brimmer favoring retention and Governors 
Mitchell and Daane favoring elimination. This reflected a more basic 
difference as to whether these services should in fact be required to 
be functionally related to banking or whether appropriateness should 
be decided on the basis of efficiency alone. It was agreed that for 
the present draft the language Mr. Cardon had suggested should be used 
No questions were raised regarding item (H), acting as 
fiduciary. Likewise, item (I), acting as travel agent, was approved 
without change. Governors Robertson and Sherrill reported that they 
had minor questions on the latter item, but they felt that they were 
not sufficiently important to justify changes. 
Item (J), which dealt with the rehabilitation and development 
of low-income areas, was the subject of extended discussion. Governor 
Robertson found the present wording too broad and suggested use of an 
earlier draft, which he read. Governor Brimmer pointed out that the 
present draft focused on low-income areas, while in his view it should 
more appropriately be aimed at low-income population, facilitating 
where possible exodus from so-called ghetto areas. However, Governor 
Mitchell felt that the question with which the Board should concern 

1551 
5/8/69 
-11-
itself most directly was the appropriateness of banks entering the 
field of equity investments via this route. While in sympathy with 
the goals of the proposal, he was anxious to preclude its developing 
into merely an excuse for banks to enter a previously forbidden field. 
He therefore suggested that it be limited to community projects, per-
haps even nonprofit. 
Returning to Governor Brimmer's point, Mr. Cardon noted that 
the earlier draft had been limited to assisting persons of low income 
to acquire, develop, and participate in business ventures. The current 
draft, on the other hand, would try to bring business into the low-
income areas, regardless of ownership. Governor Brimmer recognized 
this as a viable difference and reported that he understood legislative 
proposals were being designed, partly in response to a speech he had 
made last December, to assist in the creation of employment opportuni-
ties via three routes. These were: (1) building in low-income areas 
with outside ownership; (2) building outside the areas, but with 
requirements that a certain proportion of the hiring be done within 
the area; and (3) ownership and location both inside the low-income 
areas. He noted that, while the last had its advantages, it probably 
was limited in its short-run potential, in view of the major steps 
involved in achieving it. 
Governor Mitchell then suggested revised language for item (J) 
and, with minor revision, it was agreed upon. Item (J) would now 

11 
5/8/69 
-11-
read: "making equity investments in community rehabilitation and 
development corporations engaged in providing better housing and 
employment opportunities for the low-income population." Mr. Hexter 
called to the Board's attention that this language could be construed 
as allowing a wide variety of projects, so long as they could be 
shown in some way to provide improved opportunities for employment 
or housing. 
Mr. Cardon had also distributed a memorandum dated May 7, 1969, 
proposing a revision of item (K), the so-called "basket clause." The 
earlier wording had concentrated on the issue of efficient use of 
banking facilities, whereas in his revision he had tried to reflect 
more adequately the balance of hazards and benefits that the staff 
felt should be weighed in deciding the appropriateness of an additional 
activity. The revised wording was agreed to. 
Mr. Leavitt raised the possibility of including mortgage 
servicing on the "laundry list" of permissible activities. While some 
Board members felt such an addition to be unnecessary, it was agreed 
to include such activity on the list. Mr. Cardon noted that factoring 
was also missing from the list as an individual item, but it had been 
assumed that it would be covered by item (A). 
Mr. O'Connell asked, in connection with item (K), whether the 
phrase "after notice and opportunity for hearing" should be narrowed 
to provide some discretion for the Board as to whether the applicant 

1553 
5/8/69 
-11-
for a hearing had a clear interest in the case. Mr. Cardon responded 
that he felt such discretion would be assumed and need not be specified. 
There was further concern voiced by various members, however, 
regarding the provision for hearings and the administrative burdens 
that could result. Mr. Cardon noted that the requirement for hearings 
was limited in the draft to cases where a request was received. In 
this sense it was more narrow than the present law. But it was still 
felt that the requests might be too numerous to be handled conveniently 
by the Board. 
Governor Brimmer raised the possibility of informal hearings, 
in cases where these seemed sufficient, as a means of minimizing the 
administrative burdens. There was a feeling on the part of some that 
this would be possible, but Mr. Cardon felt that Congress would expect 
the hearings to follow the provisions of the Administrative Procedure 
Act. It was further suggested that the Act might require hearings in 
every case, but Mr. Hexter pointed out that the Act merely prescribed 
the procedures to be followed when hearings were required as the 
result of other statutes. 
There was little opposition to committing the Board to conduct 
hearings on request under item (K) since, as Governor Robertson pointed 
out, these cases would represent activities not specified in the statute 
and, therefore, amendments to the list. The concern was rather with 
the need for hearings under the more general provision, in cases of 

1554 
5/8/69 
-12-
individual acquisitions of activities already specified on the list. 
Mr. Cardon suggested that such hearings might be necessary in order 
for the Board to make a knowledgeable evaluation of the effects on 
competition. Governor Sherrill felt, on the other hand, that in a 
fair number of cases the facts might be so clear as to make hearings 
unnecessary. In his opinion, the Board should have some discretion in 
the matter. 
While no final decisions were reached on the issue, it was 
agreed that the reference to hearings should be retained in item (K) 
but deleted elsewhere for the present. 
Returning to the items to be specified, Governor Mitchell 
questioned the ab sence of credit cards and travelers checks. In 
response, Mr. Sanders noted that these activities were among those 
included under section 4(c)(5), which permitted purchase of shares 
which are of the kinds and amounts eligible for investment directly by 
national banks. Mr. Sanders noted that, since issuance of travelers 
checks was classified as a receipt of deposits, certain problems of 
location might arise, but these were not at issue presently. 
Governor Robertson objected, as he had the previous day, to 
the absence of any geographical restrictions in the current draft. 
Governor Sherrill, on the other hand, felt that a general limitation 
would be more restrictive than those currently imposed on banks and 
therefore opposed it. It was agreed that the staff would attempt to 

i crtr ir 
IJgfi) 
5/8/69 
-13-
develop a means of recognizing Governor Robertson's dissent to the 
more general feeling that limitations on location were undesirable. 
Governor Robertson also raised the possible need for statutory 
language, the complement of section 4(c)(5), to allow national banks 
to do, directly or indirectly, anything which a bank holding company 
could do. He suggested that the choice between direct and indirect 
participation, through an operations subsidiary, should be made by the 
bank on the basis of risk considerations. Governor Brimmer felt, on 
the other hand, that the Board should make a determination that some 
activities would be permitted only through operations subsidiaries. 
Mr. Hexter added that for the Board to leave the decision in the hands 
of the bank could be viewed as an abdication of the Board's responsi-
bility to protect depositors. 
Also on this point Mr. Cardon questioned whether a complemen-
tary authority for banks should attach 
to the "basket clause," and 
Governor Robertson agreed that it should be limited to specific statutory 
authorizations. But Governor Mitchell felt that even in these cases 
the result might be an effective bypass of the Comptroller of the 
Currency, in areas where his interpretations might differ from the 
Board's. Governor Sherrill observed that this was a complicated area 
and requested that the staff attempt to clarify the issues involved. 
It was agreed that the staff would make the changes agreed upon 
in the "laundry list" and that final action on the matter would be held 
over. 

XvJvJ'O 
5/8/69 
-14-
Reserve Bank building projects. There had been distributed a 
letter (copy attached as Item No. 2) sent the night before to President 
Hickman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland regarding plans for 
the new Cincinnati Branch building. That letter requested changes in 
the plans to the extent necessary to permit the renting to tenants of 
space not currently needed for operations, storage, or other Bank 
requirements. It also reiterated the position that, under current 
economic conditions, all new construction except that of the highest 
priority should be postponed, and requested that the question of 
timing again be given careful consideration by the directors. 
Governor Mitchell reported that he had conveyed the same sub-
stance orally to President Galusha with regard to the building plans 
of the Minneapolis Reserve Bank. He asked whether the Board viewed 
this as appropriate, and the members agreed. 
Coordinating Committee. Governor Robertson reported that at 
a meeting of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation the issue 
of increasing the permissible interest rate on savings accounts, if 
the proposed increase in the savings bond rate took effect, had again 
been raised and was scheduled for discussion at the next meeting. 
Governor Robertson therefore requested that the Board endeavor to 
adopt a position on the issue by Wednesday, May 14. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Deputy Secretary V 

ml Rt' 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No, 
5/8/69 
O F F I C E O F T H E 
C H A I R M A N 
May 9, 1969. 
The Honorable Wright Patman, 
Chairman, 
Joint Economic Committee, 
Washington, D. C. 20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
• 
I am transmitting herewith a staff report on financial 
developments in the first quarter of 1969, in accordance with 
the arrangements previously made with your committee. 
It is 
important to note that some of the statistical material on 
which the analysis is based is still preliminary and subject to 
revision. 
Enclosure 

1558 
FINANCIAL DEVELOPMENTS IN THE FIRST QUARTER OF 1969 
During the first quarter of 1969, the continued constraint 
on bank reserve positions led to increasing pressures on financial 
markets, raising the cost and reducing the availability of credit. 
X Q £ : ' ' :: 
The volume of nonborrowed reserves at banks was reduced by Federal 
Reserve open market operations. 
As a result banks relied more on 
other sources of funds, such as borrowing at the discount window and 
in the Euro-dollar market. Nevertheless, the supply of bank credit 
was sharply curtailed, reflecting substantial bank liquidation of 
j • 
" 
security holdings and also a reduced rate of loan expansion. The 
money supply grew at an average annual rate of about 2 per cent during 
the first quarter, considerably slower than in any quarter of the 
previous year. Most interest rates registered further increases 
over the first quarter. 
Bank reserves 
The expansion of bank reserves came nearly to a standstill 
in the first quarter of 1969. Total bank reserves rose at an annual 
rate of less than 1 per cent, as compared with 9 per cent in the 
fourth quarter of 1968. Nonborrowed reserves--those provided through 
Federal Reserve open market operations--declined slightly, following 
a sharply reduced rate of expansion in the fourth quarter. 

1559 
NET CHANGE IN RESERVES AND RELATED DEPOSITS 
(Percentage annual rates of change) 
1968 
1969 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
Total reserves 
10.5 
.1 
9.0 
8.8 
.9 
Nonborrowed reserves 
4.6 
- .2 
13.2 
3.0 - .5 
Total member bank deposits 
1/ 
7.0 
1.2 
13.1 
12.2 -5.4 
MEMO: 
Total member bank deposits 
plus Euro-dollar borrowings 
2/ 
7.4 
3.5 
14.0 
11.7 -2.4 
1/ Bank credit proxy. 
2/ Bank credit proxy adjusted to include bank 
Uabiliti es to foreign branches. 
In an effort to offset the decline in nonborrowed reserves, 
* 
r-i ',« . : hi 1; ' •/ ••: A d ' 
' , ' .1 i 
member banks increasingly turned to the discount window at Federal 
y-?" 
, 
i 
:..•. ' 
-V.v v 
' < ' 
Reserve Banks to obtain reserve funds. By March, member bank borrow-
,r , . . ,,. 
> ... 
- 
v 
ings 
at the discount window had reached an average level of more than 
$900 million, as compared with about $750 million in December and 
approximately $500 million in September. 
Banks also economized on 
~ 
t 
»tt . 
: 
• 'if';;:; ; j, k'. K -.0 
; ,, 
' 
i' 
' . 
excess reserves, with the volume of such reserves in March having 
been reduced to less than one-half of that in December. 
In spite of these attempts by banks to alleviate reserve 
pressures, total member bank deposits supported by reserves--the bank 
credit proxy-declined at an annual rate of more than 5 per cent over 
the first quarter of 1969. Banks were able to moderate this loss of 

1560 
-3-
U'iT;: 
funds to some extent by tapping other sources of funds, such as 
increasing their borrowing in the Euro-dollar market and making 
repurchase agreements against securities and loans. 
Interest rates 
The pressure on banks was reflected in further increases 
in most interest rates during the early months of 1969. The Federal 
funds rate--the rate banks charge for overnight lending of reserve 
funds, and consequently the rate most immediately affected by chang-
ing reserve pressures--reached levels of around 6.85 per cent toward 
the end of March. This represented an increase of about 60 basis 
/ f 
Points from the late-December high that followed the increase in 
the discount rate on December 18. And in view of the sharply 
reduced availability and increased cost of funds in the face of 
sustained loan demands, banks raised the prime loan rate to 7 per 
cent in early January and to 7-1/2 per cent in mid-March. While 
business loan demands on banks were relatively large over the first 
Quarter as a whole, corporate borrowers also continued to rely 
heavily on the commercial paper market for funds. As a result, 
yields on 4-to 6-month dealer-placed paper rose more than 60 basis 
Points during the first quarter. 
In contrast to the rise in other short-term rates, yields on 
Treasury bills and short-term Federal agency issues declined somewhat 
°ver the first 3 months of the year. For example, the 3-month 
Treasury bill yield dropped by about 20 basis points to around 6 per 

INTEREST RATES 
SHORT-TERM 
LONG-TERM 
FHA MORTGAGES 
FEDERAL FUNDS 
CORPORATE Aaa 
N E W 
I S S U E S 
COMMERCIAL PAPER 
4 6 MONTHS 
U.S. GOVT 
F.R. DISCOUNT RATE 
STATE AND LOCAL GOVT 
TREASURY BILLS 
3 MONTH 
Monthly averages except FHA (based on quotations for one day each month), 
fields: U.S. Treasury bills, market yields on 3-month issues; prime commercial 
Paper, dealer offering rates; FHA, weighted averages of private secondary market 
Prices of new-home 30-year mortgages converted to annual yield (dashed line 
indicates period of adjustment to change in contractual interest rate); corpo-
rate bonds, weighted averages of new publicly offered bonds rated Aaa, Aa, and 
A by Moody's Investors Service and adjusted to an Aaa basis; U.S. Govt, bonds, 
market yields adjusted to 20-year constant maturity by U.S. Treasury; State 
ar*d local govt, bonds (20 issues, mixed quality), Bond Buyer. 

-4-
- 
' 
cent. Large sales of Treasury bills by banks were readily absorbed 
by the market as demand for bills was increased in large part by the 
shifting of investor funds out of CD's and into bills, and also by 
demands for bills by many investors who wished to increase their 
liquidity because of uncertainties as to future movements of interest 
rates and stock prices. 
In capital markets, upward pressures on interest rates were 
i 
pervasive, as banks withdrew from the market because of sharply 
diminished deposit inflows and as investors generally held back 
commitments of funds in anticipation of tighter market conditions to 
come. By the end of March yields on municipal bonds, Aaa corporate 
new issues (with 5-year call protection), and FHA mortgages in the 
secondary market all had risen about 45-50 basis points above their 
December highs, to levels of 5.30, 7.37, and 8.05 per cent respectively. 
Hates on long-term Government bonds rose by about 20 basis points over 
the first quarter to around 6.25 per cent. 
Funds raised in credit markets 
New security issues by State and local governments declined 
markedly in the first quarter from their average pace during 1968. 
Rising market interest rates on such securities--reflecting in part 
reduced bank purchases--and below-market-rate ceilings in many juris-
dictions contributed to the smaller volume of offerings. Announced 
cancellations and postponements accelerated sharply to more than $800 
million in the first quarter. However, the decline in volume also 

±566 
-8-
reflected the absence of large industrial revenue bond issues, which 
no longer receive Federal tax exemption privileges. 
OFFERINGS OF NEW SECURITY ISSUES 
(Monthly averages in billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted) 
1968 
1969 
I 
| 
II 
1 
III 
1 IV 
Ie 
State and local bonds. . . 
1.2 
1.3 
1.5 
1.5 
.9 
Corporate securities: 
Total 
1.7 
1.9 
1.7 
2.0 
2.0 
Bonds 
1.4 
1.6 
1.3 
1.5 
1.5 
Stocks 
.3 
.3 
.4 
.5 
.5 
Estimated. 
Total corporate security offerings were maintained at the 
advanced pace of the fourth quarter. Although large industrial firms 
continued to account for a relatively small share of new bond issues, 
Public utilities and small to medium-sized industrial firms issued debt 
in volume. Despite the lack of buoyancy in average stock prices, new 
stock offerings remained at the relatively high level of the previous 
garter and were significantly above that in the first quarter of 1968. 
Corporate demands for short-term credit, at commercial banks and in 
commercial paper market, remained strong. 
The continuing activity in private construction and other real 
estate markets was reflected in a further increase in net mortgage debt 
formation. Commercial bank acquisition of mortgages remained exception-
ally high, Federal National Mortgage Association support increased 

1564 
-6-
notably, and net mortgage lending activity of nonbank savings institu-
tions continued at an advanced pace. While savings inflows to all 
nonbank institutions receded somewhat from the fourth-quarter pace, 
savings and loan associations--the dominant residential lender--
provided substantial support to the market as their inflows were 
unchanged from the previous quarter. 
NET CHANGE IN MORTGAGE DEBT OUTSTANDING 
(In billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted) 
1968 
1969e 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
Total 
6.8 
6.5 
6.5 
7.5 
7.7 
Residential 
— Other 1/ 
4.6 
2.2 
4.6 
1.9 
4.5 
2.0 
5.2 
2.3 
5.4 
2.3 
1/ Includes farm properties. 
e - Estimated. 
Federal Government demands on credit markets were substantially 
reduced during the first quarter as the budgetary deficit declined, mainly 
in response to more-than-seasonally enlarged receipts. Revenue was more 
than $8 billion higher than in the first quarter of 1968, while expen-
ditures were up less than $1 billion over a year ago. 
Consequently 
Federal net cash borrowing was only nominal in the first quarter of 1969. 
FEDERAL GOVERNMENT BORROWING AND CASH BALANCE 
(Quarterly totals in billions of dollars, not seasonally adjusted) 
• 
1967 
1968 
1969 
• 
IV 
I 
II 
III 
IV 
I 
budget surplus or deficit. . . 
N et cash borrowing (+) or 
°ther means of financing 2/. . 
Change in cash balance . . . . 
-10.5 
10,4 
- 1.0 
- 1-1 
-8.7 2.9 -3.2 
-7.1 
6.9 -2.6 
3.4-' 
1.7 - .4 -1, 1 
- .2 
- .2 - .1 
3 ? 
-3,9 
-2.0 
.2 
1.9 
.1 
y 
Excludes effect on agency debt outstanding of trailers of certain 
agencies to private ownership. 
2/ Checks issued less checks paid, and other accrued items. 

15€5 
Flows of deposits and money 
Time and savings deposits at banks declined by an annual rate 
°f 6.5 per cent during the first quarter of 1969, in sharp contrast to 
an increase at an annual rate of more than 17 per cent over the last 
half of 1968. The reduction in outstanding time and savings deposits 
in the early months of 1969 reflected for the most part heavy CD attrition 
at large banks. The decline in CD's—negotiable time certificates of 
deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more--began in mid-December. 
By that time yields on other short-term market instruments had risen 
above offering rates on CD's, which had been raised by most banks to 
Regulation Q ceilings by late November and early December. 
Consequently, 
banks--particularly large city banks--were unable to roll over a sub-
stantial amount of maturing issues as investors began to shift funds 
from CD's to other higher-yielding short-term market instruments. 
SELECTED DEPOSIT FLOWS 
(Percentage annual rates of change) 
1968 
1969 
I 
II 
1 
I " 1 IV 
I 
Money stock 
4.6 
8.7 
4.5 
7.6 
1.9 
Titne & savings deposits 
at banks 
7.0 
3.2 
17.9 
15.7 
-6.5 
Savings accounts at 
thrift institutions 
6.1 
6.0 
6.1 
6.5 
6.0 

±566 
-8-
-
From mid-December to the end of March, outstanding CD's at 
large banks declined by about $5.5 billion. This run-off was quite 
heavy during the latter part of December and in January because of 
the extraordinarily large volume of maturities during those months. 
But with a reduced amount of CD's maturing over the balance of the 
first quarter, attrition moderated somewhat, although it still remained 
sizable. As might be expected, the run-off in CD's was heavily concen-
trated at major money market banks, where depositors are typically 
more interest sensitive. Large banks in New York and Chicago—which 
held about 40 per cent of the outstanding CD's in mid-December--
accounted for nearly 60 per cent of the decline in CD's through the 
end of March. 
In response to their large deposit losses, banks with foreign 
branches borrowed heavily in the Euro-dollar market during the early 
months of 1969. By the end of March, head-office liabilities to 
their foreign branches had risen to around $9.9 billion, an increase 
of about $2.6 billion over the average level prevailing during December. 
Given the large demand for these funds, rates on Euro-dollars rose 
sharply, with yields on 3-month maturities, for example, reaching 
8-1/2 per cent by early March, or about 120 basis points above their 
December highs. 
Inflows of consumer-type time and savings deposits also were 
affected to some extent by rising market rates of interest. At large 
hanks savings deposit outflows in early January-following end-of-year 

1567 
-9-
interest crediting--were about twice the usual amount. But after changing 
little in February, regular savings deposit inflows picked up markedly 
in March. Inflows of consumer-type time deposits at large banks--time 
certificates and open accounts--were affected to a much lesser extent, 
and remained fairly well sustained throughout the first quarter. Country 
banks also experienced substantial outflows of savings deposits in 
January, which turned to moderate inflows in February and to sizable 
increases in March. Inflows of savings deposits to nonbank thrift insti-
tutions receded slightly, on balance, from their fourth quarter pace, but 
were little changed as compared with 1968 as a whole. 
Bank reserve pressures and rising interest rates also had a 
substantial impact on the growth of private demand deposits. Over the 
first quarter these deposits rose at an annual rate of only about 1 per 
cent compared with 6 per cent during the second half of 1968. Currency 
in the hands of the public, however, continued to increase about as 
rapidly as in 1968, bringing the increase in the money stock--private 
demand deposits plus currency--to an annual rate of close to 2 per cent 
in the first quarter, about one-third the pace of 1968. 
Banks' use of funds 
With continued pressure on their reserve positions, banks 
accentuated adjustments in their portfolios begun in late 1968. They 
cut back on acquisitions of longer-term securities, and drew down 
liquid assets that had been accumulated earlier. The liquidity posi-
tion of banks, particularly large banks, was sharply reduced over the 
first quarter. 

In order to obtain funds to help accommodate loan demands, 
banks liquidated more than $4.5 billion in holdings of U.S. Government 
securities in the first quarter of 1969, following a reduction in their 
holdings of these securities by about one-half that amount in the 
fourth quarter of 1968. Net sales of Treasury bills accounted for most 
of the first quarter reduction, but banks also reduced holdings of 
Treasury notes and bonds in a wide range of maturities. 
In addition, banks cut back sharply on their acquisitions of 
other securities, chiefly State and local government securities. They 
took only $1 billion of these securities into portfolio during the first 
quarter, or less than one-third of their takings in the fourth quarter 
of 1968. Small banks continued to add relatively sizable amounts of 
these securities to their portfolios. At large banks, where most of the 
CD attrition took place, holdings of these securities were actually 
reduced, representing mainly net reductions in holdings of both short-
and long-term municipals, although substantial amounts of agency issues 
and participation certificates were also liquidated. 
Loans accounted for nearly all of the rise in bank credit 
during the first quarter, even though the increase in total loans was 
only a little more than one-half of that in the fourth quarter of 1968. 
While expansion of total loans slowed, growth in business loans acceler-
ated further despite a stiffening in lending terms. Business loans rose 
almost $3.5 billion--about $1 billion more than in the fourth quarter--
and demand appeared fairly widespread among industry categories. The 

v ; 
bank loans 
MAJOR COMPONENTS 
BUSINESS LOANS 
a i 
• 
. 
CHANGE, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
4 
SECURITIES LOANS 
\.vi v 
• 
! 
• V. ' • 
uh >r.o y . 
REAL ESTATE LOANS 
Q1 
Q2 
Q3 
1968 
Seasonally adjusted 
04 
CONSUMER LOANS 
— 
n 
n 
01 
'69 
1569 
BANK CREDIT 
COMPONENTS 
CHANGE, BILLIONS OF DOLLARS 
O T H E R 
SECURITIES 
TOTAL 
LOANS 
Seasonally adjusted 
02 
03 
04 
01 
1968 
'69 
- 0 

-11-
1570 
heavier demand for bank credit by businesses probably was associated 
in large part with the need to finance increased tax payments, partly 
as a result of the surcharge. 
Apart from business loans, most other major loan categories 
at banks either expanded less rapidly or declined more rapidly during 
the first quarter. Growth of consumer loans slowed, reflecting the 
more general moderation in the increase of consumer credit. Real 
estate loan growth remained close to the advanced pace of the fourth 
quarter of 1968 in response to the sustained high levels of housing 
starts and construction activity. Meanwhile security loans declined 
sharply further during the first quarter as dealers continued to 
reduce their positions in response to the high cost of carrying 
inventories of securities and to expectations that interest rates 
would rise further. 

1571 
B O A R D O F G D V E R N D R S 
I t e m N o > 
2 
D F T H E 
5/8/69 ' 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 7, 1969. 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
This refers to the letter dated March 4, 1969, from 
Vice President Kiel forwarding for the Board's review and approval 
final plans and cost estimates for the new Cincinnati Branch 
building, and to the discussion which the Board's Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans had on May 6, 1969, 
with Mr. Kiel and other Cincinnati representatives concerning this 
matter. 
The Board is concerned about both the cost and the timing 
of this program. It understands that various possibilities for 
some reduction in cost have been discussed with Mr. Kiel and the 
project architects, and that some changes in this direction will 
be made. While the Board does not feel that the basic design or 
character of the building need be changed, it does believe that 
some economies could be effected by eliminations or substitutions 
in certain areas that would not significantly affect the appearance 
or efficiency of the building. 
The Board has taken the position that, in planning 
Federal Reserve buildings, provision should be made for excess 
office space in order to allow for future expansion; however, such 
space should be planned in such a way that it can be leased to 
outside tenants until it is needed by the Reserve Bank or Branch. 
Accordingly, it is the Board's view that the floor plans for the 
Cincinnati building should be changed to the extent necessary to 
permit the renting to tenants of space that is not currently needed 
for operations, storage, or other Bank requirements. Revised plans 
should be submitted to the Board before calling for bids. 
With regard to the timing question, the Board is of the 
opinion that, under current economic conditions, all new construc-
tion except that of highest priority should be postponed. As you 
know, the Board's basic position on this matter was stated in its 

1572 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman 
-2-
press release of April 9, 1969, in which it announced that construction 
of the annex planned for the Board's building was being postponed 
indefinitely, and that the Reserve Banks and Branches throughout the 
country were being asked to defer or reduce construction programs to 
the maximum extent practicable. The Board understands that your 
Directors are scheduled to consider the Cincinnati building program 
tomorrow, and it assumes that the question of timing will again be 
given careful consideration in the light of the Board's statement and 
views. 
If the decision of your Directors is to go ahead with the 
program at this time, the Board assumes they will be prepared to 
defend the priority accorded to it. We assume in any case that no 
construction could take place before early fall, given the revision 
in plans and the time required for taking bids. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
