Minutes for 
April 22r 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

1356 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 22, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the Legal Division 
Mr. Cleaver of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Cloth and Goodfellow of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Yadkin, Yadkinville, 

4/22/69 
-2-
North Carolina, into Central Carolina Bank & Trust Company, Durham, 
North Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion stated that 
consummation of the proposed merger would have no adverse competitive 
effects. 
Policy record entry. With a memorandum of April 18, 1969, 
Mr. Broida submitted a draft of policy record entry covering the 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on February 4, 1969, as 
revised to take account of comments received from Committee members 
a
nd staff following distribution of a preliminary draft. 
The entry was approved by the Board, subject to the under-
standing that it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents 
f
or possible further comments and that it would be released to the 
Press about May 5, 1969, after final review by the Board. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the Assistant Secretary of the Federal 
1 
Advisory Council submitting suggested topics for 
discussion at the forthcoming meeting of the 
Council. 
Six interpretations of provisions of Regulation Z, 
2 
T
ruth in Lending. 

1361) 
4/22/69 
-5-
Item No. 
Letter to The Times Mirror Company, Los Angeles, 
3 
California, relating to its request that Regula-
tion G be amended to permit a corporation's 
employee stock option and purchase plans to 
qualify for exemption from the credit limitations 
of the Regulation. 
Question raised by Continental Illinois. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Legal Division dated April 14, 1969, 
relating to a request from Continental Illinois National Bank and 
Trust Company, Chicago, Illinois, and its Edge subsidiary, Continental 
Bank International, New York City, for a ruling on the question whether 
an Edge corporation might act as trustee, paying agent, and conversion 
agent with respect to securities payable either in Europe or the United 
States but distributed solely outside the United States. 
It was pointed out that section 211.5(b)(2) of Regulation K, 
Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing under the Federal 
Reserve Act, provides that an Edge corporation may not "act in the 
United States as trustee, registrar, or in any similar capacity, with 
respect to securities distributed in the United States." 
Counsel for 
Continental contended that th is provision implied that an Edge corpo-
ration could act in the United States in such capacity with respect to 
securities not distributed in the United States. 
Messrs. Shay (Assistant General Counsel) and Doyle agreed that 
such an interpretation would be justified. 
On the other hand, Mr. 
Lynch was of the view that the legislative history of the Edge Act 

1361) 
4/22/69 
-5-
would prevent the Board from permitting Edge corporations to engage 
in such activities. Mr. Lynch based his argument on the fact that 
Senator Edge's bill originally contained a provision authorizing 
Edge corporations, with the Board's permission, to act as trustee 
and registrar of securities and to exercise other specified fidu-
ciary powers when necessary in the conduct of their international 
and foreign business. 
This provision was deleted from the bill, 
at the Board's suggestion, as being unnecessary in relation to the 
purposes for which Edge corporations were to be organized. 
It was agreed in the Legal Division that the question was 
close. The memorandum set forth the rationale for permitting Edge 
corporations to perform the limited functions described above, and 
there was attached a draft of interpretation for publication in 
the Federal Register that would reflect this view if the Board 
should conclude that it was the appropriate one. Should the Board 
conclude that these functions should not be permitted, there was 
attached a draft letter to counsel for the Edge corporation along 
those lines. 
Following comments by Messrs. Doyle and Lynch summarizing 
their conclusions, members of the Board posed a number of questions 
seeking clarification of various points. However, there was no 
crystallization of Board opinion. At the conclusion of the dis-
cussion it was agreed that further consideration would be given 

1361) 
4/22/69 
-5-
to the matter when additional members of the Board were present and 
that in the meantime other members of the Legal Division would study 
the subject. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
1
 
';..„„;•• 1J 

13 €1 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L RESERVE S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 1 
4/22/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
^Tre^V* 
ADDRESS • FFI C IAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 22, 1969 
Mr. William J. Korsvik, 
Assistant Secretary, 
Federal Advisory Council, 
38 South Dearborn Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Bill: 
The Board of Governors suggests the topics 
shown on the attached list for discussion at the meeting 
of the Federal Advisory Council on May 19, 1969, and the 
joint meeting of the Board and the Council on May 20. 
• • i-
The arrangements for the Council meeting 
requested in your letter of April 18 have been made. 
Sincerely 
(signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary. 
Attachment 

Suggested topics for Discussion at Meeting of 
Federal Advisory Council on May 19-20, 1969 
Economic conditions and prospects. 
A. How does the Council appraise the general economic outlook 
for the rest of 1969? 
B. Have Council members received any recent indications of 
significant changes in business capital spending or 
inventory plans? 
To what extent are business decisions 
in these areas being affected by (1) current and prospec-
tive monetary conditions? 
(2) the proposed repeal of the 
7 per cent investment tax credit? 
C. In the Council's judgment, has there been any modification 
recently in business community attitudes with respect to 
the prospects for price and cost developments? 
Banking developments. 
A. What is the Council's assessment of the probable strength 
of business loan demand in the period ahead? 
Is there any 
difference regarding the outlook for term-loan demand and 
use of outstanding firm loan commitments and regular lines 
of credit? 
B. What are the Council's views with respect to the current 
and prospective availability of short-term funds to banks 
through the CD, Euro-dollar, and Federal funds markets? 
C. To what extent has bank liquidity been reduced since 
outstanding large-denomination CD's began to decline last 
December? 
Is there room for much further reduction? 
What 
types of adjustments in policies affecting loans and 
investments have been made or are in prospect in response 
to the reduction in liquidity and the general increase in 
monetary restraint? 
D. What, in the Council's judgment, are the implications for 
monetary policy and bank regulation of the various devices 
some banks have recently been exploring and using to obtain 
funds in forms not subject to Regulations D and Q--such as 
sales of commercial paper by a wholly-owned subsidiary or 
by a one-bank holding company, sales of assets to foreign 
branches, and sales of loan participations to nonbank 
customers under repurchase agreements? 

1363 
-2-
Regulatory matters. 
A. The Board would be interested in the views of Council 
members with respect to the one-bank holding company 
legislation now under consideration in Congress. 
B. The Board would appreciate having any views of the 
Council regarding the regulations designed to foster 
greater clarity in advertisements by member banks of 
the interest they pay on deposits. 
C. The Board would be interested in any comments the 
Council might have regarding the adequacy of the 
preparations being made by commercial banks, the 
creditors from whom they purchase paper, and other 
lenders in connection with the Truth in Lending 
regulation, which becomes effective on July 1. 
Are the Council members aware of any major problems 
requiring the attention of the Board in the period 
remaining before July 1? 
Balance of payments. 
What are the Council's views regarding the revised balance 
of payments program, including the Board's guidelines? 
What are the Council's views on monetary and credit policy 
under current circumstances? 

1364 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
item No. 2 
4/22/69 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Z] 
PART 226 - TRUTH IN LENDING 
Miscellaneous Interpretations 
1. In order to group current and future interpretations of 
this Part according to their subject matter, the following sections are 
redesignated as follows: 
Former 
New 
section 
section 
number 
number 
226.101" 
226.501 
226.102 
226.601 
226.103 . 
226.602 
226.104 
226.603 
226.105 
226.701 
2. The following interpretations are added: 

1 3 t J 5 
-2-
§ 226.401 
Service charges on accounts not paid within a given period of time 
(a) Some vendors bill their customers for property or services 
Purchased under the terms of a credit plan which requires that the full 
amount of each billing be paid within a stipulated period after billing, 
with no privilege of paying in instalments. If the bill is not paid 
within that stipulated period of time, the vendor imposes a service charge 
Periodically on the unpaid balance until the account is paid in full. The 
question arises as to whether Regulation Z applies to such transactions. 
(b) When in the ordinary course of business a vendor's billings 
are not paid in full within that stipulated period of time, and under such 
circumstances the vendor does not, in fact, regard such accounts in default, 
but continues or will continue to extend credit and imposes charges 
Periodically for delaying payment of such accounts from time to time until 
Paid, the charge so imposed comes within the definitions of a "finance 
charge" (§ 226.2(q)) applicable in each case to the amount of the unpaid 
balance of the account. Under such circumstances the credit so extended 
c
omes within the definition of "open end credit" in § 226.2(r), the vendor 
l s
 a creditor as defined in § 226.2(m), and the disclosures required for 
°Pen end credit accounts under § 226.7 shall be made. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1604 and 1605.) 
§ 226.604 
Inconsistent State requirements. 
(a) Section 226.6(b) of Regulation Z indicates types of State 
law requirements that are inconsistent with Regulation Z, and § 226.6(c) 
indicates the methods of dealing with such inconsistent requirements of 
S t
ate law. 

13hG 
-3-
(b) Whether State laws are inconsistent with Regulation Z 
Necessarily depends on the nature of the State laws. Section 226.6(b)(1) 
Provides that State law is inconsistent to the extent that it "requires 
a
 creditor to make disclosures different from the requirements of this 
. • \ 1 • 
Part with respect to form, content, terminology, or time of delivery" 
This refers to disclosures of the kinds of information covered by 
Regulation Z, and not to other or collateral information such as a 
statement telling the customer that he should read the contract carefully, 
0 r
 that there should be no blanks in the contract. Similarly, it does 
n
°t refer to headings that State law may require on a contract such as 
detail Installment Contract." 
Similarly, a specification in a State 
law that certain size type must be used is not necessarily inconsistent 
w
ith the requirements of Regulation Z. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1611.) 
^ 226.702 Location of statement of how the balance was determined. 
(a) Section 226.7(b)(8) requires the creditor of an open end credit 
a c
count to disclose on the periodic statement, "the balance on which the 
finance charge was computed, and a statement of how that balance was deter-
m
ined." Under § 226.7(c) which relates to the location of disclosures there 
1-8
 no specific reference to the placement of the "statement of how that 
Glance was determined" when separated from the balance to which it relates. 
Th 
e
 question arises as to where, under such circumstances, this required 
s t a
tement shall appear on the periodic statement. 
(b) If separated from the balance to which it relates, the required 
8 t a t e roent of how the balance was determined may be placed on the face of the 

1367 
-4-
periodic statement, the reverse side of the periodic statement, or on an 
enclosed supplement; however, where such statement and balance do not appear 
together, the statement shall make clear the balance to which it refers. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1636.) 
§ 226.801 Location of disclosures when contract, security agreement, and 
evidence of transaction are combined in a single document. 
(a) Some creditors incorporate the terms of a contract, a 
security agreement, and evidence of a transaction in a single document. 
These documents are designed for processing by mechanical and electronic 
equipment. If all of the required disclosures under § 226.8 should be 
placed on the face of such a document, the creditor will be unable to 
utilize conventional accounting and record keeping equipment because of 
the size of the resulting document. The question arises as to whether 
required disclosures may be made on the face and the reverse side of such 
a document. 
(b) Where a creditor elects to combine disclosures with the 
contract, security agreement, and evidence of a transaction in a single 
document, the disclosures required under § 226.8 shall, in accordance with 
§ 226.6, be made on the face of that document, on its reverse side, or on 
both sides, provided that the amount of the finance charge and the annual 
percentage rate shall appear on the face of the document, and, if the 
reverse side is used, the printing on both sides of the document shall be 
equally clear and conspicuous, both sides shall contain the statement, 
"NOTICE: See other side for important information," and the place for 

,4S 
£ 
f 
S 
x J f c o 
a. 
the customer's signature shall be provided following the full content 
of the document. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1638.) 
§ 226.1001 Advertising of credit terms in other than open end credit. 
(a) The statement of certain credit terms in advertisements 
such as "no downpayment", the amount of any installment payments, 
dollar amount of finance charge, number of payments, etc., as provided 
in 
§ 226.10(d)(2), requires that certain other terms also be stated in the 
same advertisement. The question arises as to how a creditor may ad-
vertise credit terms in a meaningful way when all of his credit sales 
or loans are not made on the same basis. 
(b) The advertising of credit terms may be made by giving one 
or more examples of typical extensions of credit and stating all of the 
terms applicable to each example. In any such case, the advertiser shall 
set forth one or more examples which are, in fact, typical of the type 
of credit and terms usually and customarily made available by the creditor 
to present and prospective customers and each shall be clearly and 
conspicuously identified as examples of typical transactions. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1664.) 
§ 226.1002 
Catalogs-tables or schedule of credit terms. 
(a) Under § 226.10(b) in order that a catalog may qualify as a 
single advertisement, among other things, it must include a table or 
schedule of credit terms. It has been the practice of catalog houses to 
include such tables in catalogs; however, such tables generally state 

amounts of purchases, amounts of finance charges, and number and amount 
of payments for brackets up to a certain level and then contain an 
instruction to include a specified dollar amount in computing the fi-
nance charge by application of a percentage rate on any purchase in 
excess of that level. Tables to show the actual terms including annual 
Percentage rates for all purchases into thousands of dollars would be 
unwieldy, present a formidable appearance, and may be more confusing 
than helpful to the user. The question arises as to whether a creditor 
w
ho publishes a catalog is required to include tables in detailed 
amounts from the minimum up to, for example, $5000, his highest priced 
cataloged merchandise. 
(b) Tables or schedules of terms in catalogs must include all 
amounts up to a level of the more commonly sold higher priced property 
°r services which are offered for sale, but in no event greater than 
$1000 unless the creditor elects to do so. If the creditor offers prop-
erty or service for sale at prices higher than the uppermost level cov-
ered by his table, he shall state the method by which the finance charge 
l s
 computed on larger amounts, how the amount of payments and the number 
and periods of payments are determined and state, for each representa-
tive amount in increments of not more than $500 up to the highest priced 
Property or service offered, the annual percentage rate. Any catalog 
v
hich contains such a table or schedule of credit terms will comply with 
r e
quirements of § 226.10(b) provided all other requirements are met and 
S u c
h catalog shall be considered adequate for the purpose of § 226.8(g)(1). 

(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 1661.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 22nd day of April, 1969 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1371 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
4/22/69 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
April 24, 1969. 
Mr. Robert F . Erburu, Vice President, 
General Counsel and Secretary, 
The Times Mirror Company, 
Times Mirror Square, 
Los Angeles, California. 
90053 
Dear Mr. Erburu: 
This refers to your request of January 13, 1969, that the 
Board amend section 207.4(a) of Regulation G, "Credit By Persons Other 
Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers for Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying 
Registered Equity Securities," to permit a corporation's employee stock 
option and purchase plans to qualify for the section's exemption from 
the credit limitations of Regulation G, where the plans are to be 
financed by a company sponsored-membership thrift organization and 
membership in such organization is not "limited to employees and former 
employees of such corporation, subsidiaries or affiliates," as presently 
r
equired by that section. 
You represent that while the vast majority of the membership 
°f the Los Angeles Times Federal Credit Union consist of employees of 
the Los Angeles Times, its subsidiaries or affiliates, there is also 
included within the credit union membership a small group of circulation 
dealers who are not employees (less than 10 per cent of total membership) 
a
nd who are responsible for the distribution of the Times. Although 
these individuals are considered to be independent contractors, they 
have been permitted to be credit union members because their business 
activities are closely related to an essential part of the business of 
the Times. While they are entitled to all privileges of membership, 
transactions with this group of non-employee members make up a very 
small percentage of the business of the credit union. Moreover, the 
circulation dealers are not eligible to participate in the corporation's 
stock option plan. 
In August 1968, section 207.4(a) of Regulation G was amended 
t° permit company-related credit unions and thrift plans to make loans 
to finance employee stock option and purchase plans of the sponsor 
company on the same terms and conditions as was permitted lenders 

1372 
Mr. Robert F. Erburu, 
- 2 -
wholly controlled by the company itself. In pertinent part, section 
207.4(a), as amended, provides exemption from certain of the regulation's 
credit limitations "in respect to any credit extended and maintained 
by a corporation, . . . or by a lender which is a membership thrift 
organization whose membership is limited to employees and former 
employees of such corporation, its subsidiaries or affiliates . . .". 
While an independent contractor is in a somewhat different 
status, from a legal standpoint, than an employee, there is a correspond-
ing mutuality of interest between the employer corporation and an in -
dependent contractor whose principal business—as in most of the dealer-
ships herein—is to serve the corporation. It may be noted that cir-
culation dealers were found to be "employees" under the National Labor 
Relations Act for the purpose of forming collective bargaining units. 
National Labor Relations Board v. Hearst Publications, 322 U.S. Ill (1943). 
In addition, the existence of dealer members of the credit union appears 
to the Board to be de minimis, in view of the small number involved, the 
f
act that none are eligible for credit under section 207.4(a) of the 
regulation, and that none, according to the Times, has sought or been 
elected to office in the credit union since its organization in 1935. 
Thus, there is little likelihood that any dealer member would be in a 
Position to direct or influence credit union policy in connection with 
its "plan-lender" activities. 
Under the circumstances described, the inclusion of a small 
group of circulation dealers in the credit union's membership is appar-
ently compatible with the objectives of the above-quoted language. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that credit extended by the Times 
Mirror Company's credit union to finance the company's stock option 
Plan would not be disqualified in respect to the exemption afforded 
by section 207.4(a) from the credit limitations of Regulation G merely 
because the membership of the credit union includes a small number of 
circulation dealers who are, technically, not employees of the company. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal. 
Assistant Secretary. 
