FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for June 28, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note. No changes from draft minutes. 
A?/. 4 

1602 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, June 28, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Staff presented a review of domestic economic and financial 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
of the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical 
materials prepared for the purpose of today's review have been placed 
in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual briefings. 
Members of the staff who had attended specifically for the 
purpose of the economic and financial review then withdrew from the 
room and the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

16G3 
6/28/71 
-2-
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. O'Connell, Sanders, Noble, and Crews 
of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Leavitt, Lyon, and Smith of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Supporting staff from the several Divisions 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter to 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., San Francisco, California, granting its applica-
tion for permission to organize a corporation under section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act to be known as Wells Fargo Interamerican Bank, to be 
located in Miami, Florida, and transmitting a preliminary permit. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The transmittal to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation of 
a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of 
Union Bank & Trust Co., Erie, Erie, Pennsylvania, into The Pennsylvania 
Bank and Trust Company, Titusville, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Union Bank 6c 
Trust Co., Erie, with The Pennsylvania Bank and Trust Company, 
Titusville, would eliminate existing competition, as well as 
the potential for greater competition between the two banks 
through the establishment of de novo branches. Overall, the 
effect of the proposal on competition would be adverse. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter to Corpus Christi Bank 
and Trust, Corpus Christi, Texas, approving its application for per-
mission to issue capital notes. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of First Finan-
cial Corporation, Tampa, Florida, to acquire voting shares of Inter City 

1604 
6/28/71 
-3-
National Bank of Bradenton, Bradenton, Florida, and authorized the 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board approved unanimously the application of United Bank-
shares, Inc., Green Bay, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of West Bank and Trust, Green Bay, and 
authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
Control provisions of Holding Company Act. Since its inception 
in 1956 the Bank Holding Company Act had conclusively presumed that a 
company was a bank holding company if it directly or indirectly controlled 
25 per cent or more of the voting shares of two or more banks or controlled 
in any manner the election of a majority of the directors of two or more 
banks. In 1966 the Congress added conclusive presumptions that (1) shares 
owned or controlled by any subsidiary of a bank holding company are 
indirectly owned or controlled by such bank holding company and (2) shares 
held or controlled directly or indirectly by trustees for the benefit of 
a company, the shareholders or members of a company, or the employees of 
a company are controlled by such company. The 1966 legislation also 
established a rebuttable presumption that shares transferred by a bank 
holding company to any transferee that is indebted to the transferor, or 
has one or more officers, directors, trustees, or beneficiaries in common 
with or subject to control by the transferor, are controlled by the 
transferor. 

1605 
6/28/71 
The 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act further 
expanded the Board's authority to determine that a company controls 
a bank or other company. Under those amendments any company has con-
trol over a bank or over any company if the Board determines that the 
company directly or indirectly exercises a controlling influence over 
the management or policies of the bank or company. 
The question of implementing the control provisions of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, as amended, was discussed in a memorandum from the 
Legal Division dated June 2, 1971. The memorandum considered whether 
the Board should proceed on an ad hoc basis or by regulation. The Legal 
Division recommended that the Board follow the regulatory approach and 
establish a series of presumptions, some conclusive and some rebuttable, 
regarding control. Submitted with the memorandum was a draft of pro-
posed amendments to Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, that would be 
published for comment. 
Following introductory discussion, Governor Mitchell proposed 
elimination of the rebuttable presumptions that (1) a company that owns 
at least 20 per cent of the voting shares of each of two banks presumably 
controls both banks, and (2) a company that controls at least 10 per cent 
of the voting shares of each of three or more banks presumably controls 
all three banks and any other bank in which it owns more than 5 per cent 
of the voting shares. He also proposed deletion of the rebuttable pre-
sumption that a company that lends to enable the borrower to acquire 

6/28/71 
-5-
voting shares of a bank or another company on terms more favorable to 
the borrower than the bank usually requires for loans to persons with 
comparable credit standing presumably controls such shares. 
In explanation, Governor Mitchell commented that there had been 
a lot of subrosa agreements, particularly in certain States, and that 
it was necessary to clear away the debris. A regulation such as proposed 
would not, in his opinion, be effective. He would ask the Federal Reserve 
Banks to examine into all holdings of bank stock in excess of 5 per cent 
and also to examine loans on bank stock where it appeared that such 
loans might have resulted in control being exercised by the lending bank. 
As he saw it, an approach of this kind would deal more effectively with 
the problem, and it would not involve the Board in anything like the 
dangers implicit in the 20 and 10 per cent rule. 
Mr. Leavitt reported that from a spot check with several Reserve 
Banks it did not appear that the obtaining by them of information of the 
kind referred to by Governor Mitchell would constitute a particularly 
onerous burden. The determination whether control actually existed, 
based on the information obtained, would be a different matter. 
In response to a comment that the Board's rules would have to 
be prospective as well as retrospective, Governor Mitchell said that on 
the basis of experience, gained through a procedure such as he had sug-
gested, it should be possible to devise a better prospective rule than 
the one now proposed. 

160: 
6/28/71 
"6" 
Governor Maisel noted that the concept of issuing a proposed 
regulation for comment was to give the public some idea of the Board's 
tentative views, and against that background to submit comments. Governor 
Mitchell replied that as of today he would be inclined simply to issue a 
proposed rule to the effect that if more than 5 per cent of the stock of 
a bank was owned it might be that control was exercised. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that he was sympathetic to the dele-
tions that had been proposed by Governor Mitchell, on the ground that that 
would constitute the cleanest way of getting at the problem. The key 
paragraph would then be the one stating that a company or any of its 
subsidiaries that enters into any agreement or understanding with a bank 
or other company pursuant to which the company or any of its subsidiaries 
exercises a significant influence with respect to the management or over-
all operations of the bank or other company presumably controls such bank 
or other company. 
Governor Brimmer expressed agreement with Governor Maisel that 
the Board should provide some guidance to the public as to its thinking, 
and allow the public to comment. 
Question was raised whether the adoption of rebuttable presump-
tions along the lines proposed might not result in a heavy volume of 
cases challenging the presumptions. Staff indicated that parties would 
be expected either to accept the presumption and register or to go on 
their way until the Board raised the issue. The regulation would give 

1608 
6/28/71 
-7-
parties guidance as to the Board's view of what constituted control, 
and it was assumed that most people would act in accordance with the 
Board's view. The issuance of the regulation would put the burden on 
the parties concerned to reach a judgment, and it was expected that 
many cases would be processed without administrative burden, but the 
regulation would also provide a method of making a final determination 
as necessary. 
Governor Mitchell again questioned the efficacy of the proposed 
procedure, and Governor Brimmer then suggested that one possibility 
would be to issue the proposed amendments and also to ask the Reserve 
Banks to accumulate information of the kind Governor Mitchell had 
mentioned. It appeared that the issuance of the proposed regulation 
should catch a substantial number of cases, which would reduce the bur-
den on the Reserve Banks. 
Governor Mitchell, however, questioned the basis for the 20 and 
10 per cent proposals. Upon inquiry, staff indicated that the use of 
those figures reflected a conclusion by the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation, on the basis of experience over the years, that when a com-
pany controls over such percentages of stock it is generally in the 
business of controlling banks. It was understood that the suggested 
figures reflected in part an analysis of the situation in the State of 
Texas. 
After further discussion, Chairman Burns observed that by follow-
ing the route suggested by the staff the System apparently would not 

1609 
6/28/71 
-8-
suffer from so heavy an administrative burden. The size of the potential 
burden was not clear, however, and in any event that should not be the 
deciding factor if a serious mistake would be made by attempting to 
lighten the burden. 
Governor Robertson then proposed that the 20 and 10 per cent 
figures be changed to 10 and 5 per cent, which would be more in keeping 
with testimony given by former Chairman Martin on behalf of the Board 
during Congressional debate when the amendments to the Bank Holding Com-
pany Act were under consideration. The revised figures would also relate 
more closely to the presumption established in the new law that any 
company which directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has power to 
vote less than 5 per cent of any class of voting securities of a given 
bank or company does not have control over that bank or company. 
It was noted that the Board could decide later, if it wished, 
to adjust the proposed figures in the light of public comments. It was 
also noted that the use of the lower percentages would help to meet 
arguments advanced during today's discussion by Governors Mitchell and 
Sherrill, and that in conjunction with the publication for comment of 
the proposed rules the Federal Reserve Banks could be asked to make cer-
tain investigations along the lines advocated by Governor Mitchell. 
Accordingly, it was agreed to use the 10 and 5 per cent figures 
for the purpose of issuing the proposed amendments for comment. 
There followed discussion of a proposed conclusive presumption 
that whenever 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of a company are 

1610 
6/28/71 
-9-
stapled or otherwise joined together with 25 per cent or more of the 
voting shares of another company, all such shares joined together are 
under common control by a corporation or similar organization for pur-
poses of the Bank Holding Company Act. This would affect a case that 
had come to the Board's attention involving American Security & Trust 
Company, Washington, D.C. It was the consensus that the publication 
of such a proposed conclusive presumption for comment would be appro-
priate, that this should not be regarded as constituting a determina-
tion of the American Security case, that the case should be studied 
separately by the Board both retrospectively and prospectively, and 
that the bank should be advised of the Board's intent to make such a 
study of the matter. 
Governor Robertson supported the third of the three suggestions 
for deletion that had been suggested by Governor Mitchell earlier, not-
ing that the provisions in question related to a larger problem involving 
loans on bank stock that was currently before the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee, and there was agreement with the proposed deletion. 
Governor Robertson also made several suggestions for modification 
of other portions of the proposed amendments, and those suggestions were 
likewise accepted. 
It was then agreed to publish for comment a notice of proposed 
rule making in form reflecting the changes agreed upon at today's meet-
ing. A copy of the press release issued in connection with the publica-
tion of the proposals is attached as Item No. 5. 

1611 
6/28/71 
-10-
Form of Irrevocable declaration. Section 4(c)(12) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, as amended, permits the acquisition of otherwise 
nonpermissible nonbanking interests by a company that will cease to be 
a bank holding company by 1981 and complies with conditions imposed by 
the Board. In March the Board implemented that section of the Act by 
amending Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to provide that a com-
pany could acquire nonbanking interests pursuant to a notice procedure 
if it filed an irrevocable declaration, in form approved by the Board, 
that it would cease to be a bank holding company by 1981. 
Senators Sparkman and Bennett subsequently objected to the form 
of irrevocable declaration adopted by the Board, because it required a 
company to agree to divest itself of whatever interest it had in the 
bank by 1981. Their argument was that the statute requires only that 
the company divest sufficiently so that it is no longer a bank holding 
company. Similar arguments had been made by some companies that had 
filed the irrevocable declaration. 
In a memorandum dated June 24, 1971, the Legal Division presented 
three alternatives: 
(1) revise the form to provide merely that a com-
pany must agree that it will cease to be a bank holding company; (2) 
adopt an amended form providing that a company may apply for relief from 
the complete divestiture requirement; (3) retain the present form and 
request the Federal Reserve Banks to advise declarants of the possibility 
of relief from its provisions. The Division recommended the third alter-
native. 

1612 
6/28/71 
-11-
Governor Robertson expressed a preference for the second alter-
native, which he felt involved better procedure. Then, if a company 
wanted to retain more than a 5 per cent stock ownership, the burden of 
proof would be on the company to show that control would not actually 
be exercised. If the company wanted to hold less than a 5 per cent stock 
ownership, the burden of proof would be on the Board to show that control 
would actually be exercised, but the Board could make such a determination. 
After discussion, it was understood that the staff would prepare 
for the Board's consideration materials designed to implement the second 
alternative. 
Congressional testimony. The Board considered a draft of state-
ment to be presented by Chairman Burns in testifying before two subcom-
mittees of the Joint Economic Committee on Wednesday, June 30. The 
statement would include discussion of the persisting imbalance in U.S. 
international accounts, the special problem of short-term capital flows, 
and policy actions that might be taken by the U.S. and by other countries 
to deal with these problems. 
The reactions to the draft statement were generally favorable, 
and suggestions related principally to editorial and technical points. 
It was understood that the statement would be edited in the light of 
these suggestions and that it would be presented in a final form satis-
factory to the Chairman. 
(Note: A copy of the statement, as presented, 
has been placed in the Board's files.) 

1613 
6/28/71 
-12-
Th e meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:30 p.m. with all Board members present. Staff attendance was com-
parable to that at the conclusion of the morning session. 
Stolen securities. As a result of testimony received in closed 
session, the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations had reason 
to believe that four State member banks, among other institutions, may 
have had dealings in stolen securities. The Subcommittee proposed to 
issue subpoenas and its staff had requested that Federal Reserve examiners 
enter the banks simultaneously with Committee investigators. The examiners 
would take control of the records and assist in the location of the secu-
rities and identification of the transaction. If stolen securities were 
found, it was contemplated that the examiners would make a more extensive 
review of transactions involving securities. 
A staff memorandum dated June 23, 1971, advised that it was 
expected that a letter would be received from Senator McClellan, Chair-
man of the Subcommittee, confirming the request for System cooperation. 
It was recommended that if the letter was received the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation be authorized to notify the appropriate Reserve 
Banks and request that sufficient examiners be made available for the 
investigations. 
Question was raised about the possibility of having System 
examiners make the investigations on behalf of the Subcommittee, but 
staff advised that that alternative had been mentioned and was not believed 

1614 
6/28/71 
-13-
to be acceptable to the Subcommittee. It was noted that the Subcommittee 
had received information indicating that there had been certain dealings 
in stolen securities, but was not sure that it had complete information 
and therefore wanted System examiners to supplement its activities. If 
the examiners uncovered additional pertinent information, they would be 
expected to inform the Subcommittee investigators so that the issuance 
of further subpoenas could be considered. 
Question also was raised about the possibility of requesting 
the Reserve Banks to make examinations of the member banks concerned, 
rather than special investigations, but it was pointed out that the banks 
in question might have been examined only recently. 
There followed suggestions for identifying more specifically the 
responsibilities that would be assumed by the System examiners in relation 
to the investigations, after which it was agreed that if the anticipated 
letter from Senator McClellan was received a reply offering cooperation 
in connection with the investigations would be made, such reply to con-
tain language reflecting the foregoing suggestions and to be in a form 
satisfactory to Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson and Sherrill. 
(Note: The letter from Senator McClellan was received, and a copy of the 
reply sent is attached as Item No. 6.) 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance . 
Ceiling rates. In a memorandum of June 25, 1971, which has been 
placed in the Board's files, the Division of Research and Statistics 

±131 
6/28/71 
-14-
discussed the probable impact on borrowers, banks, and financial markets 
of a full suspension at this time of interest rate ceilings on all 
certificates of deposit in denominations of $100,000 and over. 
Discussion indicated that three members of the Board (Chairman 
Burns and Governors Mitchell and Daane) were inclined toward such action, 
while the other members would be unwilling to take the action, at least 
at this time. 
On the matter of timing, members of the group favoring suspension 
of the ceiling rates noted that action along such lines had been long 
delayed, that there probably would never be a time that could be regarded 
as perfect in all respects, and that in their view action now, although 
perhaps not ideal from the timing standpoint, would not be inappropriate. 
Other members believed that an announcement of suspension of ceiling 
rates at this time could result in an upward interest rate movement in 
short-term markets and that there could be an expectational effect on 
interest rates more generally, particularly if the inference was drawn 
from the announcement that the Federal Reserve foresaw a need for rate 
increases of such magnitude that the existing rate ceilings would become 
effective ceilings. 
In addition, members who were opposed to action now argued that, 
while Regulation Q admittedly had imperfections as a credit control 
device, it had been of some value in periods of monetary restraint and 
no substitute mechanism had been presented for consideration that might 
be used in place of Regulation Q. 

1616 
6/28/71 
-15-
In favor of a suspension of the ceilings on large-denomination 
CD's, it was argued that such action would make people feel easier in 
terms of the prospective availability of funds as needed, that pressure 
on the bond market would be reduced and a moderation of interest rates 
generally might eventuate, and that the action would be helpful in a 
period when the economic climate was weak, unemployment was rising, and 
capital investment, needed to stimulate business expansion, was drifting 
down in real terms. 
The Chairman indicated that it would be his intention to bring 
up the question of suspension of the ceiling rates for further considera-
tion by the Board from time to time. 
Greater Providence Deposit Corporation. Pursuant to the discus-
sion at the meeting on Friday, June 25, there had been prepared a draft 
of letter that might be sent to Greater Providence Deposit Corporation, 
Providence, Rhode Island, which would express the conclusion that that 
corporation would no longer be a bank holding company if its functions 
and those of its subsidiary were split as proposed and if funds were not 
channeled from one organization to the other. The right of Federal Reserve 
examiners to examine the institution to determine compliance with the 
condition would be reserved, along with the possibility of reexamination 
of the conclusion. The letter was intended to provide flexibility for 
the Board in the event other corporations should attempt to adopt a 
similar procedure. 

161? 
6/28/71 
-16-
Governor Robertson suggested several changes in the structure 
of the proposed letter, and agreement was expressed with those sugges-
tions. Accordingly, unanimous approval was given to a letter in the 
form attached as Item No. 7. 
Foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer referred to pend-
ing legislation which if enacted, as now appeared likely, would exempt 
export credits from the purview of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint 
Program. He noted that it would take some time, if the bill were enacted, 
to reformulate the VFCR program in a viable manner. Therefore, it would 
be his thought to recommend that the Board call for a temporary stand-
still under which banks would be asked not to exceed, for nonexport 
credits, their current ceilings applicable to such credits. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1618 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
.-•oVcoV;-. 
n F " T H E 
, 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/28/71 
• 
I "J 
Wf: 
rfirM/t,. 
' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
U D A R O 
June 29, 1971 
Mr. Richard P. Coolcy, President 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
San Franciscos California 
94120 
Dear Mr. Cooley: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated April 27, 1971, 
of Wells Fargo Interaraerican Bank, Miami, Florida, and there is 
enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 2.5(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit, to commence business, the president treasurer, 
or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify <1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized 
capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 
25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has 
individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock 
subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify 
to the payment: of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid 
in, in accordance with law. 

1619 
•Mr. Richard F. Cooley 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Wells Fargo 
Interamerican Bank will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of Wells Fargo Bank, National 
Association. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with 
the understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply 
to the foreign lending and investment activities of your bank and 
that due consideration will be given,to the priorities contained 
therein. 
\ 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyori 
Deputy Secretary 
Enclosure 

1620 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
E Q 5 5 I 
June 29, 1971 
Preliminary Permit 
lk» 
XT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by Section 25(a) 
|j 
of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this clay approved the 
Articles of Association and Organization Certificate dated April 27, 
1971, of WELLS FARGO INTERAMERICAN BANK duly filed with said Board 
of Governors, and that WELLS FARGO INTERAMERICAN BANK is authorized 
: 
to exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of: Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto. 
By 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
(Seal) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

i , v . ' V : : : ; . v . : ; > 
uj * 
mm& 
•f^RfcS*?:-' 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
205S1 
1621 
Item No. 2 
6/28/71 
A D D R E S i i 
D t ' F I C I A L 
C U R R E B P O N D E N C t 
T D 
T H E 
D D A R D 
June 28, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Corpus Christ! Bank and Trust 
Corpus Christi, Texas 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $2 million 
in subordinated notes by Corpus Christi Bank and Trust, Corpus 
Christi, Texas, as proposed in Senior Vice President Morrison's 
letter of June 7, 1971, with enclosures to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas. It is understood that any advertising with respect 
to the obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with 
the provisions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish 
the nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting 
forth in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to 
the claims of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1622 
Item No. 3 
6/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST FINANCIAL CORPORATION, 
' 
Tampa, Florida, 
' 
for approval of acquisition of not less 
' 
than 80 per cent of the voting shares of ' 
Inter City National Bank of Bradenton, 
' 
Bradenton, Florida. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK 
STOCK BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Financial Corporation, 
Tampa, Florida ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of not less than 80 per 
cent of the voting shares of Inter City National Bank of Bradenton, 
Bradenton, Florida ("Bradenton Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 

1623 
-2-
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on Hay 7, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8535), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the 
application was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice 
for its consideration. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and prospects of the Applicant and the 
banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served and finds that: 
Applicant presently controls seven banks with aggregate 
deposits of approximately $386 million, representing 2.8 per cent of 
all deposits of commercial banks in Florida. (All banking data are 
as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through May 15, 
1971.) Upon acquisition of Bradenton Bank ($42 million deposits), 
Applicant would increase its share of Statewide deposits by only 
0.3 per cent, and it would rank as the sixth largest banking 
organization and bank holding company in Florida. 

-3-
162£ 
Bradenton Bank is the third largest of the four banks in 
Bradenton and also third largest of the nine banks serving Manatee 
County, wherein it holds approximately 19 per cent of total county 
deposits. Each of the two larger area banks holds more than 26 per 
cent of such deposits. Applicant's closest subsidiary office to 
Bradenton Bank is located 40 miles to the north of Tampa. There is 
no meaningful existing competition between any of Applicant's present 
banking offices and Bradenton Bank. It also appears unlikely that 
consummation of this proposal would preclude potential competition 
because of Florida's restrictive branching laws, the wide separation 
between Applicant's offices and Bradenton Bank, and the presence of 
many other banking offices in the intervening area. Applicant's pro-
posed acquisition would represent the second entry of a bank holding 
company into rapidly developing Manatee County, and it does not 
appear that any of the competing banks would be adversely affected 
thereby. Based on the foregoing and the record before it, the 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
not have an adverse effect on competition in any relevant market. 
The financial condition and managerial resources of Applicant, 
its subsidiary banks, as well as Bradenton Bank, are generally satis-
factory and the prospects for each appear favorable. Applicant plans 
to improve the capital position of Bradenton Bank if the proposal 
is consummated. Overall, the banking factors are consistent with 
and lend some weight in favor of approval of this application. 

Considerations under the convenience and needs factors also lend 
weight toward approval of the application. Although the important 
banking needs of this area appear to be presently satisfied by exist-
ing facilities, Applicant's proposed improvement of Bradenton Bank's 
various services would benefit the convenience of the community and 
better serve its needs. It is the Board's judgment that the pro-
posed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after the date 
of this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by 
the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to 
delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, June 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No 
6/28/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
UNITED BANKSHARES, INC., 
1 
Green Bay, Wisconsin, 
1 
for approval of action to become a bank 
1 
holding company through the acquisition 
' 
of 30 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
shares of West Bank and Trust, Green Bay, 1 
Wisconsin, 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Bankshares, Inc., Green 
Bay, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of West 
Bank and Trust, Green Bay, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking of the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner offered no objection to approval 
of the application. 

162"' 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 13, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8831), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the bank concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
purpose of acquiring Bank ($44.3 million deposits). 
(All banking 
data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company 
approvals and acquisitions approved through May 24, 1971.) Upon 
consummation of the proposal, Applicant will assume Bank's present 
position as the State's twenty-fourth largest banking organization 
with 0.46 per cent of total deposits in the State. As Applicant has 
no present operations or subsidiaries, consummation of the proposal 
would eliminate neither existing nor potential competition. Neither 
does it appear that there would be adverse effects on any bank in 
the area involved. 

162£ 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
Bank are generally satisfactory, as would be those of Applicant upon 
approval. Consummation of the proposal would have no immediate 
effect 
on the convenience and needs of the community involved. 
Considerations under these factors are consistent with approval. It 
is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposal would be 
in the public interest and that the application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, 
that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the 
acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, j u ne 28, 1971. 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 5 
6/28/71 
For immediate release 
July 1, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
proposed revisions of its Regulation Y, to define circumstances which 
may be found to constitute control of a bank, or other company, in the 
\ 
light of the 1970 Amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act. 
The question of control by a company over a bank or other 
compnny was given added importance by the 1970 Amendments. The 1956 
Act placed under regulation only holding companies with two or more 
banks. The 1970 Amendments extended regulation to one bank holding 
companies and will require many such companies to divest themselves 
of certain holdings acquired while they were not subject to regulation. 
In view of the increased importance of determinations by the 
Federal Reserve Boar.d that a company controls a bank or other company, 
the Board proposes to establish a series of presumptions regarding 
control. These presumptions are pursuant to Sections 2 and 5 of the 
Act, and reflect the Board's judgment based upon 15 years of adminis-
tering the Bank Holding Company Act since 1956. 
The Board's proposed regulation to establish the presumptions 
is attached. Interested parties are invited to make their views known 
to the Board by August 6, 1971. 
The Board's proposals would amend Section 222.2 of the Board's 
Regulation Y, which concerns bank holding companies. The proposals 
reflect provisions of the original Act and of amendments to the Act in 

1630 
» 
-2-
1966 relating to control, previously embodied in Regulation Y, and they 
add regulatory provisions to implement the 1970 Amendments respecting 
control. If the proposals are adopted, the Act and Regulation Y would 
provide, on the subject of control: 
1. Conclusive pr e s ump tj qni_ojL££PJ£2l^ 
other company exist where: 
(a) A company directly or indirectly owns, controls or has 
the power to vote 25 per cent or more of any class of voting shares of 
/ 
another company or bank (as provided in paragraph 2 (a) 2 (A) of the 
Act) . 
(b) A company in any manner controls the election of a 
majority of the directors of a company or bank (as in paragraph 2 (a) 
2 (B) of the Act). 
(c) Shares relevant to control are owned or controlled by 
any subsidiary of a bank holding company (as in paragraph 2 (g)(1) of 
the Act). 
(d) Shares relevant to control are held by trustees for the 
benefit of a company or of its shareholders, members or employes (as in 
paragraph 2 (g) (2) of the Act). 
(e) Under any agreement, by-law, article of incorporation 
or otherwise, 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of one company 
are stapled or otherwise joined to at least 25 per cent of the voting 
shares of another company. 

1631 
-3-
2• Rebuttable (ovqrturnable) presumptions of control: 
The Act (in paragraph 2 (g) (3)) establishes a rebuttable 
presumption of control of a bank or other company where ownership of 
the shares was transferred after January 1, 1966 by a bank holding 
company -- or, by a company that would be a bank holding company except 
for the transfer -- in circumstances in which the recipient can be re-
garded as under the control of the company making the transfer. 
In addition, the proposal would establish the following pre-
sumptions, which, unless rebutted by other evidence, may give rise to a 
determination of control in proceedings instituted by the Board in 
accordance with procedures described below: 
1. A company that owns at least 10 per cent of the voting 
shares of each of two banks is presumed to control both banks. 
2. A company that controls at least 5 per cent of the voting 
shares of each of three or more banks is presumed to control all such 
banks. 
3. A company that owns more than 5 per cent of the voting 
shares of a bank or other company is presumed to control that bank or 
other company if any of the following additional circumstances exist. 
(a) The company has an interlock with the bank or other 
company through one or more directors, officers or employes with 
management functions. 
(b) An individual (or immediate family member) who is 
(1) a director, officer or trustee of the company, or who (2) owns 
more than 25 per cent of the voting shares of the company, also owns 
shares in the bank, or other company and: 

1632 
-4-
--his bank shares, plus those owned by the company, 
aggregate 25 per cent or more of the voting shares of the bank or 
other company, or 
- h i s bank shares, plus shares in the bank owned by 
any other company of which the individual owns 25 per cent or more 
of the voting shares, aggregate 25 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of the bank, or other company. 
A. A company that enters into an agreement restricting in 
any manner the rights of a shareholder of a bank or other company is 
presumed to control the shares involved, except that the presumption 
does not apply to agreements incident to bona fide loan transactions, 
or agreements restricting transfers temporarily while Board approval 
is being sought for the acquisition of the shares by the company. 
5. A company, or any of its subsidiaries, which, by virtue 
of an agreement or understanding, exercises significant influence over 
the overall operations or the management of a bank or other company is 
presumably in control. 
6. Shares that may be obtained by immediate conversion of 
securities directly or indirectly owned by a company are presumably 
controlled by the company. 
7. Where a bank is controlled by a partnership, and one of 
the Partners is a partner in another partnership, all the partnerships 
involved are presumed to be under common control for the purposes of 
the Bank Holding Company Act. 

163£ 
-3-
The Board's proposal would establish the follow in.procedure 
for determining control: 
Where the Board believes a company exercises a controlling 
influence over the management or policies of a bank or another company 
without having complied with the provisions of the Act, the Board will 
inform the company involved that it believes a control relationship 
exists, and will summarize its reasons for the finding. 
The company must then indicate its willingness to terminate 
the control, comply with the Act, or show why it believes no control 
relationship exists. The company may request a hearing. Hearings will 
be held under the usual rules of evidence, and on the basis of the 
record established the Board will decide the issues and order such 
action as may be appropriate. 
If no hearing is held x^here a preliminary determination of 
control is contested, the Board will decide the matter on the basis of 
the evidence available to it, and order such action as appears appro-
priate. 

1631 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R 5 
O F T H E 
Item No. 6 
6/28/71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. 
2 0 5 B I 
OFFICE: • F T H E ViOF. 
C H A I R M A N 
June 30, 197.1 
The Honorable John L. McClellan 
Chairman 
Senate Permanent Subcommittee 
on Investigations 
Committee on Government Operations 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in reply to your letter of June 23 regarding 
placement of stolen securities in banks. 
We will be happy to provide the cooperation requested in 
your letter. 
Our examiners will assist in examining the records to 
be subpoenaed by your Subcommittee as described in your letter, and 
will be glad to meet in advance with your staff to discuss pertinent 
details, as you suggest. 
At the same time, it should be understood 
that our examiners will be carrying out responsibilities vested in 
them by the Federal Reserve Act, and will therefore not be acting 
as part of the Subcommittee staff or under its direction. 
I am glad to learn that your staff has indicated to ours 
that the visits to the banks arc to be arranged without fanfare or 
publicity that might be detrimental to our mutual purposes. 
Our staff will be in touch with your staff shortly to provide 
the names of the examiners involved, and to work out arrangements 
for them to meet with your staff. 
Sincerely, 

' - f ^ ' i L F S ^ 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
EDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1635 
Item No. 7 
6/28/71 
A D D R E S S 
n r F I C I A L 
C D K K K S P O N O r i N C t : 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 1, 1971 
Mr. Biagio M. Maggiacomo, President 
Greater Providence Deposit Corporation 
281 Weybo»set Street 
Providence, Rhode Island 
02903 
Dear Mr. llaggiacomo: 
This refers to your letters of February 22 and February 25, 
1971, as supplemented by discussions with the Board's staff, regarding 
the definition of "bank" in section 2(c) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act as amended ("the Act"). 
The Board understands that your corporation is an industrial 
bank that is presently a bank holding company by virtue of its owner-
ship of an uninsured commercial bank. (As of June 30, 1970. the commer 
cial bank had total deposits of $13.1 million or .9 per cent of the 
total deposits in its relevant market.) You describe a situation in 
which your commercial bank subsidiary plans to dispose of its commer-
cial loan business. 
Section 2(c) of the Act defines a "bank" as an institution 
which "(1) accepts deposits that the depositor has a legal right to 
withdraw on demand, and (2) engages in the business of making^commer-
cial loans." The Board is of the view that "commercial loans", as 
used in section 2(t), must be regarded as including all loans to a 
company or individual, secured or unsecured, other than a loan the 
proceeds of which are used to acquire property or services used by 
the borrower for his own personal, family, or household purposes, 
or for charitable purposes. Hence, if your commercial bank ceases 
to en-age in the business of making loans of this type either directly 
or indirectly by channelling deposits to an affiliated institution 
which does make loans of this type, it would not fall within the 
definition of "bank" contained in section 2(c) of the Act. 

163C 
Mr. Biagio M. Maggiacomo 
-2-
This conclusion by the Board is expressly conditioned upon 
the resulting demand deposit-accepting subsidiary not supplying or 
maintaining the availability of funds (except through dividends) to 
any affiliate that makes commercial loans. To assure that this condi-
tion is met at all times and to provide a basis for reexamination of 
this conclusion in the future, the Board believes it appropriate to 
reserve the right for Federal Reserve examiners to examine the books 
of the industrial bank and commercial bank at: any time for this limited 
purpose. 
The Board would appreciate a letter from you indicating your 
agreement with the conditions described above. If such a letter is 
received and the proposed transaction is accomplished in accordance 
with the views expressed in this letter before August 31, 1971,.regis-
tration pursuant to- section 5(a) of the Act will be unnecessary as 
long as the conditions are met. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
