609 
( R ev. 5-67) 
Minutes for 
August 8, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

:n 28 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 8, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mr. Wusterbarth, Summer Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Axilrod, Smith, Bernard, Ettin, Fry, 
and Kelty, and Miss Stockwell of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Irvine, Katz, Reynolds, Wood, Baker, Pizer, 
and Ruckdeschel of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Mr. Bernard reported on conditions in the 
Government securities market and on budget projections in the light of 
the President's tax message, Mr. Fry reviewed bank credit and money 
supply projections, and Mr. Ruckdeschel discussed selected international 
financial developments, with emphasis on the gold and exchange markets. 
Copies of the several charts and tables distributed' in connection with 
today's review have been placed in the Board's files. 

<r i o q 
» . it AyC 
8/8/67 
-2-
Following discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions except Messrs. Solomon, Irvine, and Smith withdrew, 
as did Miss Eaton and Mr. Wusterbarth, and the following entered: 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Messrs. Dahl and Egertson, Assistant Directors, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant to the Director, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant to the Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Pounds tone, Review Examiner, Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on July 31 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on August 3, 1967, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent 
to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Empire State Bank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas, into The National 
Bank of Commerce of Dallas was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The National 
Bank of Commerce of Dallas and Empire State Bank of Dallas 
would eliminate existing and potential competition between 
them. It would also eliminate a banking alternative in the 
central business district of downtown Dallas; however, there 
are other alternatives readily available. The overall com-
petitive effect of the proposal would be slightly adverse. 

3130 
8/8/67 
-3-
A report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Security National Bank of 
i 
Contra Costa, Walnut Creek, California, and First National Bank of 
Oakland, Oakland, California, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Comptroller. The conclusion stated that the proposed merger 
would have no adverse competitive effects. 
Unanimous approval was given to the transmittal to the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation of a report on the competitive factors 
involved in the proposed acquisition of assets and assumption of lia-
bilities of Banco Italiano S. A., Santiago, Chile, by Bank of America 
National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, California, in 
a form in which the conclusion read as follows: 
The acquisition of assets and assumption of liabil-
ities of Banco by Bank of America would provide increased 
competition to other U.S. banks operating in the interna-
tional field. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to the State of New York Banking Depart- 
1 
ment interposing no objection to the establish-
ment by the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea of 
an agency in New York. 

8/8/67 
-4-
3131 
Item No. 
Telegram to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
2 
York approving the opening and maintenance of 
an account in the name of the Central Bank of 
Kenya. 
Letter to the Presidents of the Federal Reserve 
3 
Banks clarifying certain points raised as a 
result of adoption of the Board's Rules Regard-
ing Delegation of Authority and revision of its 
Rules Regarding Availability of Information. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of a letter sent today to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston approving 
a special Grade 16 maximum of $22,000 in 
its employee salary structure, as requested 
by the Bank in its letter of August 1, 1967. 
This letter was sent under the authorization 
given at the Board meeting on June 23, 1967. 
On August 4, 1967, Governor Robertson approved 
on behalf of the Board the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
August 2, 1967, recommending that Joseph S. Zeisel, Senior Economist 
in the National Income, Labor Force, and Trade Section, be authorized 
to attend, at Board expense, an International Conference on Employment 
Stabilization in a Growth Economy sponsored by the Manpower and Social 
Affairs Committee of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development to be held in Munich, Germany, from October 24-27, 1967. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Robert P. Lacey as Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

L
' ? 'i Q o 
O I * 
8/8/67 
-5-
Appointments (continued) 
Joan R. Lee as Statistical Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,331, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Thomas A. Whitty as Guard, Division of Administrative Services, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,701, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Robert P. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division, from $14,217 
to $15,106 per annum, effective August 13, 1967. 
Robert F. Sanders, Senior Attorney, Legal Division, from $14,217 
to $15,106 per annum, effective August 13, 1967. 
J. William Via, Jr., Senior Attorney, Legal Division, from $14,217 
to $15,106 per annum, effective August 13, 1967. 
Transfers 
Ruth K., Bradford, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and 
Statistics, to another budget position in the Banking Markets Section, 
with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $4,776, effective 
August 13, 1967. 
Eileen Moyer, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Bank Operations, with no change in basic annual salary 
at the rate of $4,269, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Ida G. Pronio, from the position of Stenographer in the Division 
of Personnel Administration to the position of Stenographer in the 
Division of Research and Statistics, with no change in basic annual 
salary at the rate of $4,269, effective upon assuming her new duties. 
Acceptance of resignations 
James Howell, Economist, Division of Research and Statistics, 
effective the close of business August 4, 1967. 
Andrew T. Radigan, Jr., Design Specialist, Division of Data 
Processing, effective the close of business August 16, 1967. 

8/8/67 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memo-
randum from the Division of Bank Operations 
dated July 31, 1967, Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board the 
establishment of a new analyst position in 
that Division. 
Governor Robertson also approved today on 
behalf of the Board a request from Paul F. 
McGouldrick, Economist in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, for permission to 
teach a course in U.S. economic history at 
the University of Virginia in Charlottes-
ville, it being understood that Mr. 
McGouldrick would take leave without pay 
one day each week during the period Sep-
tember 1967-January 1968. 
On August 4, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 
31,' o o 
V » 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Union Trust Company of Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland, approving the estab-
lishment of a branch at Liberty and Marriotts 
ville Roads, Baltimore County. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
Letter to The State Bank of Milan, Milan, 
Indiana, waiving the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Letter to Green Lake State Bank, Green Lake, 
Wisconsin, approving an investment in bank 
premises. 
Item No, 

8/8/67 
-7-
On August 7, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Item No. 
Letter to Farmers & Merchants Bank of Long 
8 
Beach, Long Beach, California, approving a 
reduction in the bank's capital stock through 
the acquisition and retirement of 4,600 shares 
of its outstanding stock. 
On August 8, 1967, action was taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letter, a copy of which is attached under 
the item number indicated: 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Peoples Bank & Trust Co., Montgomery, 
9 
Alabama, approving the establishment of a branch 
at Dexter Avenue and Lawrence Street. 

Q 4 Q -
i> «>« 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C 0 R R E S P D N D E N C C 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 8, 1967. 
Mr. Alexander R. Billington, 
Deputy Superintendent of Banks, 
State of New York Banking Department, 
100 Church Street, 
New York, New York. 10007 
Dear Mr. Billington: 
This refers to your letter of July 28, 1967, requesting 
the views of the Board of Governors regarding the proposed applic-
ation of Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea, Seoul, Republic of Korea, 
for a license to establish an Agency in New York. It is under-
stood that Foreign Exchange Bank is wholly owned by Bank of Korea. 
The Board has noted that the Republic of Korea has 
recently permitted the establishment of branches in Korea by United 
States banks. 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection to estab-
lishment of the proposed Agency. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

313 
T E L E G R A M 
L K A I K O WIRE SERVICE 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
Item No. 2 
8/8/67 
August 8, 1967 
WAAGE - NEW YORK 
Your wire August 3. Board approves opening and main-
tenance of an account on the books of the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York in the name of the Central Bank of Kenya, subject 
to the usual terms and conditions. 
It is understood that par-
ticipation in this account will be offered to other Federal 
Reserve Banks. 
) •-:
 ;
 t 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
KENYON 
t 
. >;. 
. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
3/8/67 
S-2027 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
AOOREIl O F F I C I A L COHRE9PDNDINCI 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
Auguit 10, 1967 
Dear Sir: 
As the result of the recent adoption by the Board of its 
Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority and a revision of its Rules 
Regarding Availability of Information, several questions have arisen 
that appear to require clarification. 
1. Access to records relating to Reserve Bank actions under 
delegated authority. - Letters written by a Reserve Bank reflecting 
actions approving or disapproving applications or requests, taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated authority, constitute opinions and 
orders "made in the adjudication of cases" and must, therefore, be made 
available for public inspection and copying under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2). 
Likewise, applications and other documents relating to such actions 
are subject to disclosure, upon request, under 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(3), 
unless they fall within one or more of the statutory exemptions. 
In paragraph 15 of the enclosure with the Board's letter of 
June 22, 1967, it was indicated that all requests for access to doc-
uments relating to actions by the Reserve Banks under delegated 
authority should, for the present, be referred to the Board. 
* ™
e v e r
> 
in order to avoid unnecessary delays, each Reserve Bank is authorized 
to make available, upon request, any letter reflecting action taken 
by it under delegated authority on any application or request for 
approval of a particular transaction, such as the establishment of a 
branch, an investment in bank premises, or a declaration of dividends, 
as well as applications relating to such actions, if the Reserve Bank 
believes that disclosure of the records requested appears to be 
warranted. 
In any instance in which a Reserve Bank is in doubt as to 
the propriety of complying with a request for access to such records, 
the matter should be referred to the Board's Secretary, either in 
writing or by wire or telephone. 
In making such records available, the Reserve Banks should 
have in mind the provision of 5 U.S.C. 552(a)(2) that authorizes the 
deletion of identifying details from an opinion or order to the extent 

3138 
S-2027 
- 2 -
required to prevent a clearly unwarranted invasion of personal privacy, 
as well as the statutory exemptions from disclosure set forth in 
5 U.S.C. 552(b) to the extent that they may apply to material In such 
records. 
2. Content of letters with respect to branches. - In general, 
letters written by the Reserve Banks approving particular transactions 
under authority delegated by the Board need not contain reasons for 
such actions. However, in the case of actions on branch applications 
by State member banks, it is believed that every letter reflecting such 
an action should contain a brief statement of the basis for the Reserve 
Bank's action. Such "findings" are believed to be highly desirable in 
all cases, and to be necessary in any cases that may result in litigation. 
Ordinarily, a letter approving a branch application need contain 
only a single sentence to the general effect that the Reserve Bank finds 
that the member bank's capitalization is adequate, that its management 
is satisfactory, that the proposed branch will serve the convenience and 
needs of the community, and that the branch will not tend to create an 
undesirable competitive situation. 
In other words, the findings should 
generally parallel the standards set forth in subparagraphs (i) - (v) of 
§ 265.2(f) of the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority. 
How-
ever, in any instance in which there is reason to suspect that the 
Reserve Bank's action may be contested by competing banks or others, and 
particularly in any case in which such an application is denied, the 
Reserve Bank's letter should contain more detailed findings of facts and 
conclusions based on such findings. 
3. Extensions of time in bank holding company cases. - In its 
published orders approving the formation of new holding companies and 
acquisitions of stock of banks by existing holding companies, the Board 
prescribes a period during which the transaction shall be consummated 
and, where the Board has extended the period, an order to that effect 
has similarly been published in the Federal Register. Since authority 
to extend such periods has been delegated to the Reserve Banks, the 
Board's orders in future cases will make it clear that the period pre-
scribed for consummation of the particular transaction is subject to 
extension by the Board or by the appropriate Reserve Bank under delegated 
authority. Normally, such extensions of time will be granted by the 
Reserve Banks by letter, without the issuance or publication of any 
formal order. 
Rescission of previous letters. - Because of delegations 
to the Reserve Banks of authority with respect to certain matters, the 

*t B 
ti a.» 
,,f • : r? ire: :rr:, 
.. 
S-2027 
•i; • > 
3T£«vi 
Board's letters of June 10, 1930 (F.R.L.S. # 3547), November 4, 1952 
(F.R.L.S. # 3573), November 4, 1953 (F.R.L.S. # 3575), November 9, 
1962, and August 2, 1963 (F.R.L.S. 0 3576), December 13, 1943 
(F.R.L.S. # 3703), and August 30, 1946 (F.R.L.S. #5084) are rescinded. 
• .3 
; i • ' 
' ' • 
Vary truly yours, 
•<rry 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 
r id-,"r I 
I;-; •••'. ^ 
. • 
'.' 
. 
• • y ,..:.•:„,( yt .i . ' •
 : 
L 11 • j ? 
T',' 
, :d 0 1 Cov 
• V," f 
••/> i: •}.£ > , OUC i .n. ' iVv.v' * \ . y 
.'•••}<..: 
-k a :.' 
»; . .
 f
' —. t; t 
, • ,'ir • •.v.;.' Ty, ' ,
 
1
 '•-
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

3140 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
8/8/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 8, 1967. 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. George H. Ellis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 
02106 
Dear Mr. Ellis: 
The Board of Governors approves a special Grade 16 
maximum of $22,000 in the salary structure for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston, effective immediately, as requested 
in your letter of August 1, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
> 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
•,* . j C.'Ti J. i . v •-" 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L RESERVE BANK O F 
R I C H M O N D 
R I C H M O N D . 
V I R G I N I A 
23213 
J t e m 
N q 
• 8/8/67 
August 4, 1967. 
Board of Directors, • 
Union Trust Company o£ Maryland, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21203, 
Gentlemen; 
Tho Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, on behalf 
o£ and under authority delegated by the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, has approved the application of 
Union Trust Company of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland, to 
establish a branch near the intersection of Liberty and 
Marriottsville Roads, Baltimore County, Maryland. The authority 
granted hereby expires six months from the date of. this letter. 
Please advise us when a definite date for opening 
has been determined and the exact title under which the 
branch will operate. 
Yours very truly, 
' 
C^ldy } -
/Aubrey II.j Heflin, 
?iret Vice President. 
c.c. Board of Governors 
Bank Commissioner 
Legal Department 
Baltimore Branch 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
ITEM NO. 6 
230 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
8/8/67 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS UMO 
012) HA 7-2J20 
August k, 1967 
3142 
Mr. Loren C. Sefton, Vice President 
The State Bank of Milan 
Milan, Indiana 
1*7031 
Jfcor Mr. Scfton: 
Your letter of July 31, 1967, addressed to the Board 
of Governors together with the attachment which cives notice of 
intention to withdraw from membership and requests waiver of the 
six months' notice has been referred to this office. 
Ca behalf of the Board of Governors> acting under 
delegated authority, this Lank waives the requirement of six 
months' notice of withdrawal. Under the provisions of Section 
208.10(c) of the Board's Regulation H, your institution may 
accomplish termination of its membership at any time within 
ci^ht months from the date that notice of intention to withdraw 
frern membership was Given. Upor. surrender to the Federal Reserve 
Eonk of Chicago of the Federal Reserve stock issued to your 
institution, such stock will be cancelled and appropriate refund 
vill be made thereon. 
It is requested that the certificate of membership be 
returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
Si 
v M-ouJ 
Leiand Ross 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
C c
 - Mr. Merritt Sherman 
H 9 3 
COPY 

FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CHICAGO 
I T E M 
N O / 
7 
2)0 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET 
8/8/67 
CHICAGO. ILLINOIS 60690 
012) HA 7-2J 20 
August 
1967 
Mr. H. J. Ifcccr, Cashier 
Green Lake State Bank 
Green Lake, Wisconsin 
Dear Mr. Mesers 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank grants approval for an additional 
investment in bank premises of $lS,000 for the purpose of 
acquiring additional property to expand the bank's parking 
lot. 
Very truly yours, 
? / 
/ 
/WSJ ' 
Leland Ross 
Vice President 
LR:rk 
- Mr. Merritt Sherman 
Examiner's file 
H 9 3 
COPY 

314.4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OF S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
i 
S A N F H A N O M C O , C A U T O K N U 
M H O 
Item No. 8 
August 7, 1967 
8/8/67 
Mr. G. A. Walker, President, 
fflratri & Merchants Bank of Losft Btftch, 
302 Pine Avenua, 
Long Beach, California 90612. 
Dear Mr. Walker: 
Reference is made to your 
requeating our approval to a plan 
Merchants Bank of Long Beach pro 
"Other Rcrl Estate" acquired th 
by selling, it f.?r cash and share 
We understand that the 4600 share 
acquired will be ImmetfTot'e^v retir 
shares issued as /ft stock dlWdend 
of June 
Fenaers & 
X 
ise of certai©^ 
^ire of a loan • 
capital stock, 
stock to be 
a like amount of 
.remaining stockholders. 
On bel 
delegated authoi 
a reduction in c) 
:quisition and retirement 
stock in accordance \ri 
Although Board approval of the stock dividend is 
.not required/we would appreciate being advised of the 
»tails of/the program when It has been consummated. 
d of Governor3, acting under 
has approved the request for 
f subject bank through the 
4600 sharea of lta outstanding 
above-mentioned plan. 
Very truly yours, 
.(signed) Irwin L. Jennings 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K 
O F A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
Item No. 9 
8/8/67 
August 8, 1967 
Board of Directors 
Peoples Dank 6 Trust Co. 
Montgomery, Alabama 36105 
Gentlemen: 
On behalf of the Eoard of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
acting under duly d e l e g a t e d authority, this Bank has approved the establish-
ment of a branch at the corner of Dsxter Avenue and Lawrence Street, 
Montgomery, Alabama, provided the branch is established by November 1, 1968. 
It is our understanding that the Peoples Bank & Trust Co. will 
designate the above branch its main office, will convert its present main 
office in the Normandale Shopping Center into n branch and will close its 
Downtown Branch at 82-84 Commerce Street, simultaneously with the establish-
ment of the new office at Dexter Avenue and Lawrence Street. 
C c
: 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
Mr. Robert M. Cleckler 
Superintendent of Banks 
State of Alabama 
Montgomery, Alabama 36104 
Harold T. Patterson 
President 
