FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for September 1, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 
ML s-n 

24G9 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 1, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Garabedian, Assistant Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Administrative Services 
Mr. Watt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Data Processing 
Miss Ormsby, Special Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 

" 4 7 0 
)/ ; / , ; 
9/1/70 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, Kansas City, and Dallas on August 27, 1970, of the 
rates on discounts and advances in their existing schedules was 
approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
would be sent to those Banks. 
First National Bancorporation. The Board authorized the 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting denial on August 13, 
1970, of the application of The First National Bancorporation, Inc., 
Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of The First National Bank of 
Pueblo, Pueblo, Colorado. Copies of the documents, as issued, are 
attached under Item No. 1. 
Barclays Bank Limited. There had been distributed a memo-
y . 
randum from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated 
August 18, 1970, and other pertinent papers, including a proposed 
order, relating to an application of Barclays Bank Limited, London, 
England, to acquire shares of Bank of London & South America Limited, 
London, England. Approval of the application was recommended. 
Governor Daane commented that, while he would not necessarily 
disagree with the staff recommendation, he thought that such a deci-
sion might be inconsistent with Board action on similar cases in the 
past. 

i l 
9/1/70 
- 3 -
Following discussion, it was understood that the application 
would be approved and the issuance of the proposed order authorized 
if Governor Daane's question was resolved to his satisfaction. 
Note: On the basis of staff investigation, Governor Daane 
subsequently indicated that he no longer had a question regarding 
approval of the application. Accordingly, the order was issued; a copy 
is attached as Item No. 2. 
Bank of Delaware. A memorandum from the Division of Super-
vision and Regulation dated August 24, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed relating to an application of Bank of 
Delaware, Wilmington, Delaware, to merge Millsboro Trust Company, 
Millsboro, Delaware. The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Airline transportation excise taxes. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated August 28, 1970, from the Legal Division 
with reference to the question whether the Board and the Federal 
Reserve Banks were exempt, or should seek exemption, from the payment 
of excise taxes on personal transportation and air freight imposed 
by the recently enacted Airport and Airway Development and Revenue 
Act :«of 
1 The Legal Division recommended that the Board request a 
ruling by the Internal Revenue Service as to the Reserve Banks' 
liability for both taxes, and a draft letter was attached to the 

\ s Kf 
9/1/70 
_4_ 
memorandum for the Board's consideration. 
While varying opinions were expressed on whether the Banks 
should in fact pay the taxes, it was unanimously agreed that the 
course recommended was appropriate and should be followed. A copy of 
the letter to the Internal Revenue Service in the form approved is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
With reference to the payment of taxes by the Board, it was 
the view of the Office of the Controller that it would be preferable 
to pay the newly imposed taxes in accordance with the course being 
taken by most Government agencies. The Board expressed agreement 
with this view and accordingly it was understood that the Internal 
Revenue Service would not be asked for a ruling with respect to the 
Board. 
; m », - IV, i 
• 
> • > ' . . . * 
; . 
j 
Check/data processing computer proposal. The recommendations 
contained in a memorandum from the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank 
Computers dated August 26, 1970, regarding a proposal of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York to upgrade and integrate its check collection 
and general data processing hardware were approved unanimously. A 
copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
Foreign banking matters. Upon consideration of a memorandum 
from the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated August 20, 1970, 
the following applications were approved unanimously: 

n * 
<A 
9/1/70 
-5-
The First National Bank of Atlanta, Atlanta, Georgia, 
for permission to organize a corporation under sec-
tion 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to be known 
as First Atlanta International Corporation, Atlanta, 
Georgia. 
The Indiana National Bank of Indianapolis, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, for permission to organize a corporation under 
section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as 
Indiana National Overseas Corporation, Indianapolis, 
Indiana. 
The foregoing proposed Edge corporations, Mercantile 
International Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri, and 
Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, Maryland, for per-
mission to acquire stock of a merchant bank in London, 
England, to be formed under the laws of the United 
Kingdom, with each applicant also acquiring subordi-
nated debentures of the London bank. 
Copies of the letters sent to the respective applicants pursuant to 
this action are attached as Items 5 through 8. 
Labor Relations Panel. Mr. Holland reported that, prior to 
Chairman Burns' departure, it had been arranged that Governor Daane 
would succeed Governor Sherrill on the Federal Reserve System Labor 
Relations Panel, and a minimum public announcement of this change 
was planned. A copy of the press release approved for issuance later 
in the day is attached as Item No. 9. 
Mr. Holland also reported that President Hickman of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland had requested a joint meeting of 
the Board and Presidents on the afternoon following the next meeting 
of the Federal Open Market Committee (September 15). The purpose of 

"474 
9/1/70 
-6-
such a meeting would be to discuss issues pertaining to labor relations, 
including impasse rules and other guidelines but not legal points. It 
was agreed that such a meeting would be acceptable for the purpose of 
listening to the Presidents' views and taking them under advisement, 
but that a debate of the issues involved would not be appropriate at 
that time. (Note: The joint meeting was subsequently canceled at the 
suggestion of the Presidents.) 
Canadian discount rate. Mr. R. Solomon reported that the Bank 
of Canada had lowered its discount rate from 7 to 6-1/2 per cent. It 
was understood that that move had been taken for both domestic reasons--
a stagnant economy, high unemployment, and success in slowing the rate 
of price advance—and international reasons — a strong balance of pay-
mentson current account, inflows of short-term capital, and persistent 
upward pressures on the Canadian exchange rate. As yet no direct impli-
cations were seen for the prospect of Canada reestablishing a fixed 
exchange rate rather than the floating rate currently in effect. 
Salary guidelines. Governor Mitchell reported that 
President Galusha of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis had expressed 
an interest in having a discussion of salary guidelines for Federal Re-
serve Bank officers at the meeting of the Presidents' Conference on 
September 14. He (Governor Mitchell) suggested that the Board might, 
as a first step, confirm last year's guidelines. It was also suggested 

2 4 7 5 
9/1/70 
-7-
that an effort be made to encourage communication between the respective 
committees of the Conference of Presidents and the Conference of Chair-
r 
men concerned with salary guidelines. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

2476 
UNITED STATES 
BEFORE TI-IE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF 
WASHINGTON, 
Item No. 1 
9/1/70 
OF AMERICA 
THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., 
Denver, Colorado, 
for approval of acquisition of more than 
20 per cent of the voting shares of 
The First National Bank of Pueblo, 
Pueblo, Colorado. 
ORDER DISAPPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by The First National Bancorporation, 
Inc., Denver, Colorado, a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of more than 30 per cent 
of the voting shares of The First National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo, 
Colorado, 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 

2477 
- 2 -
the Currency, and requested hie views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller recommended that the application be approved. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 27, 1S70 (35 Federal Register 3846), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby 
is denied. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 1, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, and Maisel. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Daane, Brimmer, and 
Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2478 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANCORPORATION, INC., DENVER, COLORADO, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF PUEBLO, PUEBLO, COLORADO 
STATEMENT 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
Board of Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of 
the acquisition of more than GO per cent of the voting shares of 
The First National Bank of Pueblo, Pueblo, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board notified the Comptroller 
or the Currency of receipt of the application and requested his views 
and recommendation thereon. The Comptroller recommended approval 
of the application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act 
provides that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would 
result in a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination 
°r conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business 

- 2 -
2479 
Of banking in any part of the United States. Hor may the Board 
approve a proposed acquisition the effect of which, in any section 
of the country, may be substantially to lessen competition, or to 
tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be 
1 U r e G t r a i n t o f t r a d e> unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive 
effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the 
Public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In each 
case, the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding 
company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction. - Applicant, 
vhich has five subsidiary banks with total deposits of $570 million2/, 
is Presently the second largest banking organization in Colorado in 
terms of State deposits; it is only slightly smaller than the State's 
largest banking organization, another Denver-based holding company. 
holding comDanv fnr T 
** ° f D e C G m b e r 3 1 > 1 % 9 > a dJ u s t e d t o reflect 
date 
Includp^ l0rraat
A
i0n? a n d acquisitions approved by the Board to 
Bank*of Greelev T ^ i ' A p p U c a n t ' s subsidiaries is The First National 
of w h i c h w a s \ e y ' , C o l o r a d o ($/:0 raillio" deposits), acquisition 
that acquisition hn b y ' ^ n r d o n 
1970. Consummation of 
U n i t e d t 
3 b G e n d 6 l ay e d ^ litigation instituted by the 
.tales Department of Justice. 

2180 
Acquisition of Bank ($54 million deposits) would increase Applicant's 
share of deposits in the State from 14.5 per cent to 15.9 per cent, 
and it would become the largest banking organization in the State. 
The share of State deposits held by the two largest banking organizations 
would increase from 29.5 per cent to about 31 per cent. 
Applicant's present subsidiaries are located between 
90 and 160 miles from Pueblo, the situs of Bank's only office. No 
significant competition presently exists between Bank and those 
subsidiaries. 
There are, nevertheless, significant competitive issues 
presented by Applicant's proposal. Bank is by far the largest 
of seven banks in Pueblo County, accounting for 39.5 per cent of 
county deposits - about one-third more than the area's second largest 
bank. Bank would be the second bank in the area to be affiliated 
"ith a bank holding company; the area's fourth largest bank ($15.4 
million deposits) is a subsidiary of Denver U. S. Bancorporation, Inc., 
the other large Denver-based bank holding company. 
In connection with its review of the application, the 
Board has considered a comment received from the Department of 
^stice, Ttfhich concluded that consummation of the proposal "would 
h*ve a significantly adverse effect on competition." Specifically, 
^ e Department took the position that the proposal would serve to 
entrench the highly concentrated banking structure in Pueblo County 

Z\81 
- 
4 
-
and eliminate the potential that Applicant might enter the market 
either through establishment of a new bank or acquisition of a smaller 
bank, or that Bank might meaningfully participate in the competitive 
efforts of another organization which x;ould offer an alternative to 
Applicant and the other large banking organizations in the State of 
Colorado. The Department also expressed concern that approval of the 
Proposal might trigger other acquisitions which would lead to the 
domination of most principal markets in the State by a few bank 
holding companies. 
Applicant, in response to the Department's comments, 
indicated its view that the Pueblo market X7as not an attractive 
area for new entry, and stated that acquisition of a smaller bank 
in the area would not enable it to accomplish the objectives of the 
instant proposal, it also contended that Bank lacks the management 
resources to operate, or contribute significantly to the operation of, 
a bank holding company. 
In approving an application by Applicant to acquire The First 
national Bank of Greeley, Greeley, Colorado (1970 Federal Reserve 
Bulletin 539), a majority of the Board expressed the view that the 
Proper approach to competitive questions presented by prospective 
structural changes in Colorado banking is to determine, on a case-by-case 
^sis, the desirability or undesirability of the structural changes which 
"°Uld r e S U U f r° m t h e proposal involved. Based on the particular facts 

- 5 -
24 S2 
of that case, the Board concluded that competition would not be unduly 
threatened by consummation of the proposal, but indicated its determina-
tion to deal appropriately with anticompetitive proposals in other 
parts of the State. 
Those members of the Board who have considered the present 
proposal are unanimous in the view that its consummation would preclude 
possible alternative affiliations or de novo entry which would almost 
certainly result in a more competitive environment in the Pueblo area. 
Unlike the bank involved in the Greeley case, Bank is the dominant 
institution in its market. It is, moreover, the second largest 
independent bank in the entire State of Colorado, and the largest 
outside the Denver area. Despite the fact that the Pueblo area has 
a relatively high ratio of population to banking offices, the economy 
of the area has been stagnant, particularly as compared with other 
areas of the State, The area, therefore, cannot be considered more than 
moderately attractive for new entry. There are, however, several 
smaller banks in the area, the acquisition of any of which would be 
competitively preferable to the present proposal. Also, to the 
extent that deconcentration through de novo entry may be said to 
be unlikely, greater significance must be attached to the present 
proposal's likely effect of increasing the already wide disparity 
in the competitive positions of Bank and its smaller rivals. 

2483 
- 6 -
Finally, while the ability of Bank to serve as a lead bank in a 
significant statewide organization may be subject to question, 
its utility as a vehicle through which a smaller holding company 
might achieve meaningful entry into the Pueblo area cannot be 
seriously doubted. And even if it were to be assumed that the 
only result of denial of the present proposal would be to preserve 
the existing structure of banking in Pueblo, it is the Board's 
judgment that the preservation of significant independent competitors 
m the principal Colorado markets is much to be preferred to the 
alternative of permitting the development of a situation in which 
such markets are all dominated by one or another of the largest 
banking organizations in the State. 
A consideration which could be argued to provide some 
offsetting weight to these anticompetitive effects is that consum-
mation of the proposal uould dissolve an affiliation now existing 
between Bank and Park National Bank ($4 million deposits), a suburban 
bank which is the sixth largest in the Pueblo area, thereby removing 
an impediment to competition between the two banks. However, in 
view of the limited size of Park National Bank, and its lack of 
a downtown location, it appears to be in a disadvantageous position 
to exert a significant competitive impact on Bank, especially if the 
latter were affiliated with Applicant, and the Board therefore accords 
little weight to the possible procompetitive effects of its dis-
affiliation from Bank. 

- 7 -
24 84 
Based on the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of Applicant's proposal would not result in a monopoly 
or be in furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to 
monopolize the business of banking in any area. However, the 
anticompetitive effects of the proposal, both uithin the Pueblo 
area and in other Colorado areas which would be deprived of the 
benefits of possible alternative affiliations by Bank which would be 
foreclosed by the present proposal, are sufficiently serious as to 
provide significant weight against approval of the application. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is 
generally srtisfactory, their management is capable, and prospects 
of the grouo are favorable. 
The financial condition and management of Bank are satis-
factory, and its prospects, whether operating independently or as 
a subsidiary of Applicant, are favorable. 
These considerations, while consistent with approval of 
the application, provide no significant weight in support of such action. 
Convenience and needs of the communities involved. -
Consummation of Applicant's proposal would have no significant effect 
on the convenience and needs of communities served by its present 
subsidiaries. 

24 85 
Pueblo is a city with a population of 105,000, located 
at the foot of the Rocky Mountains, 110 miles south of Denver. A 
large percentage of the city's labor force is unskilled, and is 
employed by the city's largest corporation. Because of the lack 
of economic diversification, the city's growth rate has been slow 
in comparison with other cities on the eastern slope of the Rocky 
Mountains - about 16 per cent in the past decade. There are 
some indications of likely future growth, however, the most 
important of which is the Frying Pan - Arkansas Water Division 
project, which will supplement irrigation and water supplies, 
produce hydro-electric power, and provide new recreational facilities. 
Bank and other banks in Pueblo provide all the usual 
services required in a city of its size, including trust services. 
The principal benefits which Applicant claims would result from 
the acquisition trace to its proposal to increase the social conscious-
ness of Bank, in order that it will participate more fully in 
programs to aid the economically disadvantaged in the area. It 
does not appear that consummation of the proposal would make possible 
the provision of any significant new services which are beyond Bank's 
present ability to render, particularly in the light of a close 
and long-standing correspondent relationship with Applicant's lead bank. 
These considerations provide some weight in support 
of the proposal, but fail to outweigh the serious anticompetitive effects 
noted earlier. 

S6 
- 9 -
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 2(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would not be in the public interest, 
and that the application should be denied. 
September 1, 1970. 

24 87 
Item No. 2 
9/1/70 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
BARCLAYS BANK LIMITED, 
London, England, 
for approval of acquisition of 
1,336,633 voting shares of the 
Bank of London and South America, 
Limited, London, England. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U*S.C, 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222,3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222,3(a)), an application by Barclays Bank Limited, London, 
England ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the 
Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 1,336,633 of the 
voting shares of Bank of London and South America Limited, London England 
("Bank"), which has a branch in New York City, Applicant would 
acquire the stock through its subsidiary, Barclays Bank DCO. When 
combined with shares of Bank now owned directly and indirectly by 
Applicant, the proposed acquisition would result in Applicant's 
control of about 6.5 per cent of the voting shares of Bank, 

2488 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gaVe written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent of Banks of 
the State of New York, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Superintendent indicated that he had no objection to the proposal. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on July 28, 1970 (35 Federal Register 12088), pro-
viding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its con-
sideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
and the convenience and needs of the community to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant, the largest bank in Great Britain, is a bank 
holding company, by virtue of its ownership of more than 25 per cent 
of the voting stock of (1) Barclays Bank DCO, London, England, which 
operates three branch offices in New York (deposits of $108 million), 
and (2) Barclays Bank of California, San Francisco, California. 
Section 3(d) of the Act - which prohibits the formation of a plural 
State holding company - 
w a s inapplicable since Applicant became a bank 

2 4 8 9 
-3-
holding company by virtue of the 1966 amendments to the Act, irather 
than pursuant to Board approval. (Prior to that time, the term "bank" 
was so defined in the Act as not to include Barclays Bank DCO; 
Applicant, therefore, was then regarded as having only one subsidiary 
bank, and thus not a bank holding company.) At the time that Applicant 
became a bank holding company, the State in which the principal 
operations of its subsidiaries were conducted was New York; therefore, 
under section 3(d) of the Act, New York is the only State in which 
Applicant can acquire additional subsidiary banks. 
Bank, a commercial 
banking institution operating primarily in Great Britain, Europe, and 
Latin America, maintains a branch in New York City ($106 million deposits) 
and a representative office in Pittsburgh. 
Although Applicant's subsidiary, Barclays Bank DCO, and 
Bank both maintain offices in New York City, the Board is of the view 
that consummation of the acquisition by Applicant of a minority stock 
interest in Bank would have no significant effect on banking competition 
in New York City or in any other part of the United States. Considerations 
relating to the banking factors and the convenience and needs of the community 
involved are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that the 
application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, on the basis of the findings summarized 
above, that said application be and hereby is approved, provided that 
the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the 
thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

£430 
-4-
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, September 1, 1970. 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel 
• and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2431 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/1/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 1, 1970 
The Honorable Randolph Thrower, 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 
Internal Revenue Service, 
12th St. and Constitution Ave., N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20224 
Dear Mr. Thrower: 
The Airport and Airway Development and Revenue Act of 1970 
("the Act"), 34 Stat. 219 (P.L. 91-258), increased, effective July 1, 
1970, the existing excise tax on airline passenger travel from a 
previously existing 5 per cent to 8 per cent of the basic air fare, 
and also imposed, among other taxes, a 5 per cent excise tax on air 
freight shipments. 
Prior to passage of the Act, Federal Reserve Banks had 
been exempted from payment of the 5 per cent excise tax on airline 
passenger travel under Ruling M.T. 21, issued by the Internal 
Revenue Service. (1944 Internal Revenue Bulletin at pages 594-59 6 
(1944-13-11795, M.T. 21).) This exemption was based upon the lan-
guage of section 7 of the Feder.al Reserve Act, 15 U.S.C. 531, which 
is as follows: 
"Federal reserve banks, including the capital stock 
and surplus therein and the income derived therefrom, shall 
be exempt from Federal, State, and local taxation, except 
taxes upon real estate." 
We are advised that numerous airlines' ticket agents are requiring 
payment of the excise tax by Federal Reserve Bank personnel traveling 
on official business, pending an IRS ruling on the subject. In view 
ot the fact that the 1970 Act did not repeal the exempt status of 
such travel as provided by section 7 of the Federal Reserve Act, the 

2192 
• 
The Honorable Randolph Thrower 
-2-
Board requests the issuance of a ruling with respect to the continued 
exemption under section 7 of the Federal Reserve Act from payment by 
Federal Reserve Banks of the airline passenger excise tax imposed by 
the Act. The Board requests further a ruling with respect to exemp-
tion under section 7 of the Federal Reserve Act from payment by the 
Reserve Banks of the excise tax imposed by the Act on air freight 
shipments. 
Very truly yours, 
o 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
1 

2493 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , Q . C . 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 4 
9/1/70 
W I L L I A M W. S H E R R I L L 
M E M B E R O F THE 
B O A R D 
September 1, 1970 
Mr. William F. Treiber, 
First Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Bill: 
A report by the Committee on Federal Reserve Bank 
Computers relating to your Bank's proposal to upgrade your 
general data processing and check collection hardware was 
considered by the Board this morning which expressed general 
agreement with the recommendations contained therein. Copies 
of this report are enclosed for your convenience. 
It has come to my attention that your Bank has placed 
a firm order for an IBM 360 Model 40 computer to facilitate the 
implementation of the conversion to your new equipment. I 
would like to point out that the Board's letter of April 23 on 
this general subject intended that all new computer acquisitions 
be reviewed and discussed by the Board before an order is placed 
for a new model. I would, be grateful if you would call this to 
the attention of your staff since I am sure it was an oversight 
on their part. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) William W. Sherrill 
Enclosures. 

B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2494 
Item No. 5 
9/1/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E ! 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R D 
September 1, 1970. 
The First National Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
Gentlemen: 
* < 
' 
. • 
* 
f *»• 
. . i 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated July 1, 1970, 
of First Atlanta International Corporation, Atlanta, Georgia, and 
there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation 
to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organi-
zation. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
7 ? e C t i ° n 2 5^ a) unti.l it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, 
must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
U ; that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
y citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, 
chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State of the 
nited States, or by firms or companies the controlling interest 
in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and (3) that 
the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of Asso-
ciation at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each 
shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent 
h llS S t° c k subscription. 
Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary 
sall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and 
n e a c h is paid in, in accordance with law. 
T n accordance with the request included in your applica-
tion dated July 1, 1970, on behalf of First Atlanta International 
orporation, the Board is disposed, when the Corporation's final 
Permit is issued, to grant consent for it to acquire up to 16-2/3 per 

2495 
The First National Bank of Atlanta 
-2-
cent of the stock of a corporation to be organized under the laws 
of the United Kingdom, subject to the usual conditions regarding 
the activities of foreign subsidiaries of United States banks. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that First Atlanta 
International Corporation will have no separate base under the for-
eign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of The First National Bank 
ol Atlanta. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the 
understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the Corpora-
tion will be made within the guidelines established under the for-
eign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
oreign lending and investment activities of your bank and that due 
consideration will be given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Enclosure. 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

o 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
September 1, 1970 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 1, 1970, of FIRST ATLANTA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly 
filed with said Board of Governors, and that FIRST ATLANTA INTER-
NATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
By .Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
I 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
9/1/70 
?y A . 
A D D R E S S 
Q F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 1, 1970. 
The Indiana National Bank of Indianapolis, 
One Indiana Square, 
Indianapolis, Indiana. 46204 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated July 29, 1970, 
of Indiana National Overseas Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, 
and there is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corpora-
tion to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
y Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the direc-
tors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
tates; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
and owned by citizens of the Uni.ted States, by corporations the 
controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State 
of the United States, or by firms or companies the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and 
(3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
of Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and 
that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer 
or secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instal-
ments as and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. 
In accordance with the request included in your applica-
tion dated July 2, 1970, on behalf of Indiana National Overseas 
orporation, the Board is disposed, when the Corporation's final 
permit is issued, to grant consent for it to acquire up to 16-2/3 per 

The Indiana National Bank of Indianapolis 
"498 
- 2 -
cent of the stock of a corporation to be organized under the laws 
of the United Kingdom, subject to the usual conditions regarding 
the activities of foreign subsidiaries of United States banks. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Indiana 
National Overseas Corporation will have no separate base under the 
foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or invest-
ments will need to be made under the ceiling of The Indiana National 
ank of Indianapolis. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given 
with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments of 
the Corporation will be made within the guidelines established 
under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they 
apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your bank 
and that due consideration will be given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
pc^ii,;,?!;;.-
Enclosure. 
\ 

2199 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
September 1, 1970. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 29, 1970, of INDIANA NATIONAL OVERSEAS CORPORATION duly 
filed with said Board of Governors, and that INDIANA NATIONAL 
OVERSEAS CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
Preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit 
generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
°f said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board 
°f Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
By 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2500 
B O A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 7 
9/1/70 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
^riisf: 
September 1, 1970 
Mercantile International Corporation, 
c/o Mercantile Trust Company National Association, 
721 Locust Street, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 1, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MIC") to purchase 
and hold up to 16-2/3 per cent of the stock of a merchant bank in 
London, England ("London Bank"), to be formed under the laws of the 
United Kingdom, at a cost of approximately $1,000,000, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, approval is also granted for the pur-
chase and holding of shares of London Bank in excess of 15 per cent 
°f your Corporation's capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
°f London Bank by MIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if London Bank shall in any manner 
engage in any activity or take any action what-
soever that would not be permissible if London 
Bank were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, MIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of London Bank as it may require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by London 
Bank be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regula-
tion K in the same manner as if London Bank were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 

Mercantile International Corporation 
2591 
- 2 -
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. Your attention is directed to the Board's 
interpretation No.5720 on Rights to Acquire Shares, which would be 
applicable to London Bank's operations. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of St. Louis, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of London Bank. 
The Board also grants its consent for MIC to continue to 
hold the stock of London Bank after London Bank issues up to $6,000,000 
of ten-year convertible debentures. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
of your Corporation, and Mercantile Trust Company National Associa-
tion, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
1 

B D A R D D F G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
O 
Item No 
9/1/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C CI R R E S P CJ N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B D A R D 
September 1, 1970. 
Maryland National Bank, 
Baltimore, Maryland. 21203 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of June 30, 1970, the Board 
°f Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Regulation M, for Maryland National Bank 
("MNB")} Baltimore, Maryland, to purchase and hold up to 16-2/3 per 
cent of the stock of a merchant bank in London, England ("London 
Bank")} to be formed under the laws of the United Kingdom, at a 
total cost of approximately $1,000,000, provided the shares are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the shares 
London Bank by MNB is granted subject to the following conditions 
CD 
That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if London Bank shall in any manner engage 
in any activity or take any action whatsoever that 
would not be permissible if London Bank were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
MNB will furnish the Board with such reports re-
garding the activities of London Bank as it may 
require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
London Bank be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if London Bank 
were a corporation organized under Section 25(a) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
I 

2503 
Maryland National Bank 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b) and 
(c) of Regulation K. Your attention is directed to the Board s 
interpretation No. 5720 on Rights to Acquire Shares, which would be 
applicable to London Bank's operations. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, throught the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of Richmond, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of London Bank. 
The Board also grants its consent for MNB to continue to 
hold the stock of London Bank after London Bank issues up to $6,000,000 
°f ten-year convertible debentures. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved x^ill be made within the guide-
lines established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in 
effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities 
°f your bank, and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 9 
9/1/70 
For immediate release. 
September 1, 1970. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today a change in the membership of the Federal Reserve 
System Labor Relations Panel. Effective immediately, Governor J. 
Dewey Daane has been designated a Panel member replacing Governor 
William W. Sherrill. 
The Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel, formed 
in January 1970 pursuant to Section J of the Board's Statement of 
Policy on Unionization and Collective Bargaining for the Federal 
Reserve Banks, is composed of one public member, Mr. William E. 
Simkin, who is the Panel Chairman, and two members of the Board of 
Governors, Governor George W. Mitchell and Governor Daane. 
-0-
