MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 16, 1970 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Monday, November 16, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Miss Ormsby and Miss Ryon of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Economic review. A review of the kind customarily given in 
in preparation for meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
presented. The reports were based to some extent on materials 
that had been prepared for tomorrow's Committee meeting, and copies 
of those documents have been placed in the files of the Committee. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present 

3 1 H 7 
11/16/70 
-2-
There followed, with staff attendance curtailed, a discussion 
of the rationale underlying policy alternatives that had been suggested 
for consideration at the Committee meeting. 
Mr. Broida, Mr. Cardon, and Miss Ormsby then withdrew. All 
members of the research divisions who had remained for the limited 
session except Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Sigel, Keir, and Struble of 
the Division of Research and Statistics and Messrs. Solomon and Gemmill 
of the Division of International Finance also withdrew and the following 
entered: 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Mcintosh, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner of the Legal Division 
Mr. Poundstone of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Third party payment plans. By regulation dated August 4, 1970, 
issued on the basis of permissive authority contained in the Housing 
and Urban Development Act of 1968, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
had authorized Federal savings and loan associations, effective 
September 14, 1970, to make payments out of depositors' savings 

11/16/70 
-3-
accounts to third parties on the basis of nontransferable orders 
and authorizations from their depositors. 
However, following discussion between the staffs of the 
Bank Board and the Federal Reserve Board, Bank Board Chairman Martin 
indicated in a letter to Chairman Burns of November 4, 1970, that 
the Bank Board had decided to "restrict the use to pre-authorized 
transfers, as distinguished from books of non-negotiable transfers 
which the depositor would carry around and at some future date would pre 
sent for clearance" and that it intended to "limit the items for which 
transfer orders could be requested on a pre-authorized basis from the 
association to those related to housing expenditures." According to 
the letter, permitted transfers would include such things as mortgage 
payments, housing and mortgage insurance payments, property taxes, and 
utility bills. 
Other materials bearing on the subject included: 
- • i: : 
• 
') 
< 
a -; ' • 
a. A memorandum from the Legal Division dated October 26, 
1970, submitting for consideration a draft notice of 
proposed rule making designed to permit member banks 
to offer their customers services comparable to those 
that Federally-chartered savings and loan associations 
had been authorized to offer by the August 4, 1970, 
regulation. 
b. A memorandum from the Division of Research and 
Statistics dated October 27, 1970, discussing issues 
raised by the August 4, 1970, regulation along with 
measures that the Federal Reserve might take in 
response to such regulation. 

11/16/70 
-4-
c. A memorandum from the Office of the Secretary 
dated November 12, 1970, presenting informa-
tion obtained through the Federal Reserve 
Banks on the current status of savings and 
loan association third party payment plans 
and summarizing alternatives available to 
the Board for consideration. 
d. A memorandum from Governor Mitchell dated 
November 16, 1970, proposing that Regula-
tion Q, Interest on Deposits, be amended 
to authorize member banks to offer a 
savings depositor the opportunity to pre-
authorize transfers from his savings 
account to pay any of his obligations to 
persons who had an account with the deposi-
tary bank. Governor Mitchell suggested 
that that would (1) aid members of the 
public by giving them an opportunity to 
pay most of their bills more conveniently 
from an interest-earning deposit, and 
(2) improve the efficiency of the payments 
mechanism by providing a means of reducing 
to a minimum the number of instruments 
necessary to accomplish transfers of funds. 
Also, he maintained, it would be consistent 
with the "go slow" approach suggested as 
desirable in the Research Division's memo-
randum, and it would not have a disruptive 
effect on the System's ability to implement 
monetary policy. He did not favor authorizing 
savings depositors in member banks to make 
withdrawals by sending nontransferable orders 
direct to a third party who would present them 
to the bank for payment. 
After Governor Mitchell had commented on his proposal, with 
emphasis on the advantages that he saw in such a scheme for the so-
called household customers of commercial banks, Chairman Burns noted 
that he was scheduled to confer with Chairman Martin this afternoon 

3170 
11/16/70 
-5-
(with Governor Mitchell also present) and that in the circumstances 
there should obviously be no attempt to reach final decisions at this 
time. At his request, Mr. Partee summarized the discussions that had 
been held with the Bank Board staff, pointing out particularly that 
the Bank Board now had apparently come to the realization that 
commercial banks, if permitted to offer third party payment plans to 
any significant extent, would probably enjoy a distinct competitive 
advantage over the savings and loan associations. 
In the ensuing discussion several Board members expressed a 
degree of sympathy with the idea of permitting member banks to offer 
services along the lines set forth in Governor Mitchell's memorandum, 
but they indicated that they would not be prepared to grant such an 
authorization at this particular time. For example, one member 
(Governor Maisel) urged the Board not to take any action now that 
might be regarded as retaliatory in nature and suggested that the 
staff be instructed to provide an in-depth analysis of the implications 
of the Mitchell proposal. Another member (Governor Sherrill) suggested 
that the proposal be held in abeyance pending further negotiations 
with the Home Loan Bank Board to determine whether and, if so, how far 
that agency seemed inclined to pull back from its earlier authorization. 
Governor Robertson observed that one of the possibilities to be considered 
was whether legislation should be sought that would eliminate the pro-
hibition against payment of interest on demand deposits. 

3171 
11/16/70 
-6-
With respect to the possibility that the Home Loan Bank Board 
might now be willing to limit its outstanding authorization substan-
tially, Governor Mitchell commented that he would not want the Federal 
Reserve, in connection with such a move, to commit itself as to the 
course of action it might pursue. After some discussion of that point, 
Chairman Burns inquired whether it would be fair for him to advise 
Chairman Martin this afternoon that the broader the range of payments 
that could be made through savings and loan accounts the greater would 
be the pressure on the Federal Reserve from member banks to take some 
step on their behalf. 
It was generally agreed that that would be a fair statement. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the statement be accompanied 
by an expression to the effect that householders were likely to demand 
from banks certain services of this kind that in the opinion of the 
Federal Reserve should not be withheld over the longer run. Chairman 
Burns replied that he was not sure whether he could make such a comment, 
but he noted that Governor Mitchell could, on his own behalf, if he so 
desired. 
The discussion concluded with an understanding that the subject 
of third party payment plans would be considered further following 
this afternoon's conversation with Chairman Martin. 
United States Trust Company. Unanimous approval was given to 
a letter to United States Trust Company International Corporation, 

") I mw» > 
11/16/70 
-7-
New York, New York, in the form attached as Item No. 1, granting 
permission for it to acquire the shares of a domestic subsidiary 
company to be organized under the laws of New York State and to con-
tinue to hold those shares after acquisition by the subsidiary of the 
shares of UST Gestion S.A., a company to be formed in Paris, France. 
Miami check collection plan. The Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta had submitted a proposed check collection plan for its new 
Miami office and had asked for the Board's reaction, as well as whether 
it would be appropriate for the Reserve Bank to approach banks in the 
Miami zone on the basis of the plan. A subsidiary issue arose from 
the fact that the Committee on Collections of the Conference of First 
Vice Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks, in commenting on the 
Miami plan, had expressed the view that the proposal embodied in it to 
absorb transportation costs on incoming checks should be submitted to 
the Conference of Presidents before the Atlanta Bank implemented the 
plan. 
In a memorandum dated November 12, 1970, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations described the type of reply that it believed 
appropriate to send to the Atlanta Reserve Bank. The Division recom-
mended that the question of absorption of transportation costs on incoming 
checks not be resubmitted to the Conference of Presidents. 
After discussion the Division's recommendations were accepted 
and unanimous approval was given to letters to the Atlanta Reserve Bank 

3 i ? 3 
11/16/70 
-8-
and to the Chairman of the Committee on Collections in the form 
attached as Items 2 and 3, respectively. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance, including Mr. Morgan, Assistant to the Secretary. 
Director appointments. The following actions were taken with 
respect to the appointment of Chairmen, Deputy Chairmen, and Class C 
directors at Federal Reserve Banks and the appointment of directors 
at Federal Reserve Bank branches, with the understanding that advice 
of the appointments would be sent to the respective appointees at the 
appropriate time and that public announcement would be made near the 
end of the year in accordance with the usual practice: 
The following were reappointed as Class C directors 
of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated, each for a 
three-year term beginning January 1, 1971: 
Name 
Bank 
John M. Fox 
Boston 
Cleveland 
Richmond 
Atlanta 
San Francisco 
J. Ward Keener 
Stuart Shumate 
John C. Wilson 
0. Meredith Wilson 
i 
The following were reappointed as directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank branches indicated, each for a 
three-year term beginning January 1, 1971: 
Name 
Branch 
John H. Fetting, Jr. 
Henry Cragg 
Baltimore 
Jacksonville 

3174 
11/16/70 
-9-
Name 
Branch 
Robert H. Radcliff, Jr 
L. William Seidman 
Alvin Huffman, Jr. 
M. Steele Wright, Jr. 
Norman B. Houston 
1/ 
New Orleans 
Detroit 
Memphis 
Houston 
Los Angeles 
The following were reappointed as directors of 
the Federal Reserve Bank branches indicated, 
each for a two-year term beginning January 1, 
1971: 
i 
Name 
Branch 
Warren B. Jones 
David R. C. Brown 
Florin W. Zaloudek 
Henry Y. Kleinkauf 
C. Henry Bacon, Jr. 
Helena 
Denver 
Oklahoma City 
Omaha 
Seattle 
The following were designated as Chairmen and Federal 
Reserve Agents of the Federal Reserve Banks indicated 
for the year 1971, with compensation fixed at an 
amount equal to the fees that would be payable to any 
other director of the same Bank for equivalent time 
and attendance to official business: 
Name 
Bank 
James S. Duesenberry 
Albert L. Nickerson 
Bayard L. England 
Albert G. Clay 
Wilson H. Elkins 
Edwin I. Hatch 
Emerson G. Higdon 
Frederic M. Peirce 
David M. Lilly 
Boston 
New York 
Philadelphia 
Cleveland 
Richmond 
Atlanta 
Chicago 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
1/ It subsequently developed that Mr. Radcliff was not in a position 
to accept the reappointment. 
f 

3175 
11/16/70 
-10-
Name 
Bank 
Robert W. Wagstaff 
Kansas City 
Charles F. Jones 
Dallas 
0. Meredith Wilson 
San Francisco 
The following were appointed as Deputy Chairmen of the 
Federal Reserve Banks indicated for the year 1971: 
Name 
Bank 
Roswell L. Gilpatric 
New York 
D. Robert Yarnall, Jr. 
Philadelphia 
J. Ward Keener 
Cleveland 
Robert W. Lawson, Jr. 
Richmond 
John C. Wilson 
Atlanta 
William H. Franklin 
Chicago 
Sam Cooper 
St. Louis 
Willard D. Hosford, Jr. 
Kansas City 
Philip G. Hoffman 
Dallas 
S. Alfred Halgren 
San Francisco 
It was agreed to ascertain through the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Minneapolis whether Bruce B. Dayton, Chairman of the Board, Dayton 
Hudson Corporation, Minneapolis, Minnesota, would accept appointment 
if tendered as a Class C director of the Bank for the unexpired portion 
of the three-year term ending December 31, 1971, with the understanding 
that if it were found that he would accept, the appointment would be 
made, to be effective January 1, 1971. It was further understood that 
Mr. Dayton would be appointed Deputy Chairman of the Bank for the year 
1971. 
(Note: It have been ascertained that an acceptance would be 
forthcoming, a telegram was sent to Mr. Dayton informing him of his 
appointment as Class C director and Deputy Chairman.) 

3176 
11/16/70 
-li-
lt was agreed to ascertain through the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Banks whether the following persons would accept appointment 
if tendered as Reserve Bank (Class C) or branch directors, each for 
a three-year term beginning January 1, 1971, with the understanding 
that if it were found that they would accept, the appointments would 
be made: 
Name 
Whitney M. Young, Jr., Executive Director, 
National Urban League, New York, New York 
John R. Coleman, President, Haverford 
College, Haverford, Pennsylvania 
Harry M. Young, Jr., Farmer, Herndon, 
Kentucky 
Russ B. Hart, President, Hart-Albin 
Company, Billings, Montana 
Robert T. Person, President, Public 
Service Company of Colorado, Denver, 
Colorado 
John Lawrence, Chairman of the Board, 
Dresser Industries, Inc., Dallas, Texas 
Name 
Rupert Warren, President, Trico Products 
Corporation, Buffalo, New York 
Clair F. Vough, Vice President, International 
Business Machines Corporation, Lexington, 
Kentucky 
Bank 
New York 
Philadelphia 
St. Louis 
Minneapolis 
Kansas City 
Dallas 
Branch 
Buffalo 
Cincinnati 

3177 
11/16/70 
Name 
-12-
Charles W. DeBell, General Manager, North 
Carolina Works, Western Electric Company, 
Inc., Winston-Salem, North Carolina 
Roland R. Remmel, Chairman of the Board, 
Southland Building Products Co., 
Little Rock, Arkansas 
William H. Stroube, Assistant Dean, College 
of Science and Technology, Western 
Kentucky University, Bowling Green, 
Kentucky 
Herbert M. Schwartz, President, Popular Dry 
Goods Company, Inc., El Paso, Texas 
Irving A. Mathews, President, Frost Bros., 
Inc., San Antonio, Texas 
Branch 
Charlotte 
Little Rock 
Louisville 
El Paso 
San Antonio 
(Note: It having been ascertained that acceptances would 
be forthcoming, appointment telegrams were sent to the 
persons listed above.) 
'" • ' : • • 
' i . : ' ' ' ! 
It was agreed to ascertain through the appropriate Federal 
Reserve Banks whether the following persons would accept appointment 
if tendered as Reserve Bank branch directors, each for a term of two 
years beginning January 1, 1971, with the understanding that if it 
were found that they would accept, the appointments would be made: 
Name 
Branch 
John R. Howard, President, Lewis and 
Clark College, Portland, Oregon 
John H. Breckenridge, President, 
L. L. Breckenridge Company, Twin Falls, 
Idaho 
Portland 
Salt Lake City 

3178 
11/16/70 
-13-
(Note: It having been ascertained that acceptances 
would be forthcoming, appointment telegrams were 
sent to the persons listed above.) 
With respect to the position of Deputy Chairman at the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, currently held by John M. Fox, it 
was indicated that although the business interests of Mr. Fox probably 
would not prevent his regular attendance at meetings of the Board of 
Directors, they might make it difficult for Mr. Fox to give sufficient 
time and attention to the responsibilities attached to service as 
Deputy Chairman. 
It was understood that Governor Robertson would 
inquire further into the situation and report back with a recommendation. 
During the foregoing discussion of director appointments, 
Governor Robertson spoke of the effort he had made, in company with 
the staff, to recommend appointments that would broaden the range of 
interests represented on the Reserve Bank and branch boards of directors. 
Also, he said, an effort had been made to recommend as Reserve Bank 
Class C directors persons who were serving, or had served, as branch 
directors. Finally, in order to avoid any semblance of commitment, 
the names of persons presented for consideration were those of persons 
who had not been contacted by Reserve Banks to ascertain their 
availability. 
(Note: For this reason particularly, the Board agreed 
in several cases, at Governor Robertson's suggestion, on second persons 

3179 
11/16/70 
-14-
that the Reserve Bank Chairmen would be asked to contact if it 
developed, upon checking, that the first person would not be available 
for appointment.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
I r • L ; 

3 1 S 0 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 1 
11/16/70 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADORE93 OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
November 16, 1970 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation, 
45 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 27, 1970, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("USTCIC") to pur-
chase and hold 100 per cent of the outstanding shares of a domestic 
subsidiary to be incorporated in New York ("DS") at a cost of approx-
imately $75,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of DS by USTCIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions: 
(1) That USTCIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of DS: (i) if DS at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permis-
sible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock; (ii) if DS establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in any manner which at the time would 
not be permissible to USTCIC; or (iii) if DS receives 
any deposits in the United States. 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, USTCIC 
will cause DS (a) to permit examiners appointed by 
the Board of Governors to examine DS, and (b) to fur-
nish the Board of Governors with such reports as it 
may require from time to time; and, 

United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by DS 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if DS were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
On the basis of information furnished, the Board also grants 
consent for the issuance by DS of up to approximately $36,000 of notes 
with maturities in excess of one year, which are to be sold outside 
the United States and are to be payable only outside the United States. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of the Articles of Association and By-
Laws of DS. 
The Board grants consent for USTCIC to continue to hold the 
shares of DS after DS acquires all of the shares of UST Gestion S.A. 
("USTG"), a company to be formed in Paris, France, at a cost of approx-
imately $36,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of USTG by DS is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That DS shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in USTG if USTG at any time fails 
to restrict its activities co those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if QSTG establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any opera-
tion in France or elsewhere, in any manner, which 
at the time would not be permissible to DS; 
(2) That, when required by nhe Board of Governors, DS 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of USTG as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by USTG 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if USTG were a corporation or-
ganized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

3 1 8 2 
United States Trust Company 
International Corporation 
-3-
' V 
- - . 
. • 
* »>.*,. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as it 
relates to restrictions on loans granted by USTG in France in the 
currency of that country, 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the foreign lending and investment activities of DS will be governed 
by the foreign credit restraint guidelines, in particular by those 
Provisions which call for the foreign assets of DS, minus outstanding 
amounts of foreign borrowings by DS of an original maturity of three 
years or more, to be consolidated with the foreign assets of USTCIC 
for the purposes of the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D • F G D V E R N • R 5 
D F T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/16/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
3 1 8 3 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 16, 1970 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel, President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30303 
Dear Mr. Kimbrel: 
Responding to the request in your letter of October 29, 1970, 
the Board offers the following comments with respect to the proposed 
check collection plan for the new Miami Office. 
With respect to the proposed time schedules, the Board feels 
that consideration should be given to the possible desirability of chang-
ing the cut-off hour from 7:00 p.m. to 12:01 a.m. for checks drawn on 
hanks outside of the city of Miami; and of changing the deferred credit 
routing symbol designation (0661) for such banks to an immediate credit 
routing symbol such as 0670. It is believed that these changes would 
Permit more expeditious collection of checks received from out-of-zone 
hanks, and would avoid a precedent-setting exception to the general 
Practice throughout the country of assigning immediate credit routing 
symbols to all banks participating in regional clearing arrangements. 
With regard to the proposal to absorb incoming transportation 
costs, the Board is of the opinion that such a policy should be undertaken 
only to the extent where, in the opinion of the Reserve Bank concerned, 
there is a clear benefit to be derived on the basis of either more effi-
cient Federal Reserve operations or a need to induce country banks to pay 
for their items on day of receipt; also that it would be unwise in dis-
cussions with banks in the Miami area to offer to pay for such costs 
before there is a firm determination of the necessity for such a policy. 
With regard to the proposed Operating Circular and Automatic 
Charge Agreements, the Board suggests that, in the interest of consis-
tency and to avoid the possibility of legal questions concerning the 
Phrases "day of presentment" and "day Reserve Bank dispatches," con-
sideration might be given to changing the first sentence of Paragraph 4 
°f the Operating Circular to read as follows: 
"As a condition of becoming a participant, a bank 
shall enter into an agreement whereby remittance for 
cash letters presented by the Miami Office will be 

3 1 8 4 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel 
-2-
"effected on the day of receipt by the payor bank by auto-
matic charge to the reserve account of the payor bank, in 
the case of member banks, or to the reserve account of a 
correspondent member bank, in the case of all nonmember banks 
and those member banks electing to use this method." 
Consistent phrasing could then be used in Paragraph 2 of the Automatic 
Charge Agreement. 
The Board concurs in the urgency of the need to discuss the 
proposed check collection plan with commercial banks in the Miami zone 
at the earliest possible moment, and feels that these discussions should 
be undertaken as soon as the matters mentioned above have been resolved. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
11/16/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L LI • R R E S P O N O E Nl C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
November 16, 1970. 
Mr. John T. Boysen, Chairman 
Committee on Collections 
Conference of First Vice Presidents 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Federal Reserve Station 
Kansas City, Missouri 
64198 
Dear Mr. Bcysen: 
After considering your letter of October 26, 1970, commenting 
on the proposal by the Federal Preserve Bank of Atlanta for a Miami 
regional clearing arrangement, and after reviewing the record of the 
discussions that took place incident to the establishment of the 
Washington-Baltimore clearing arrangement, the Board has decided to 
advise the Atlanta Reserve Bank that it feels that the absorption 
of incoming transportation costs should be undertaken only in those 
cases where, in the opinion of the Reserve Bank concerned, there is a 
clear benefit to be derived on the basis of either more efficient 
Federal Reserve operations or a need to induce country banks to pay 
for their items on day of receipt. 
It feels that this decision is consistent with conclusions 
reached at the time of the Washington-Baltimore considerations, and 
that no new factors have been suggested, that might change the conclu-
sions reached at that time. Accordingly, the Board decided against 
resubmitting the question to the Conference of Presidents. 
While the Board did not adopt the suggestion made in your 
letter, the opinions expressed by tne Committee were helpful as a 
balance against other opinions, and the Board very much appreciates 
having received them, as well as the expeditious manner in which the 
matter was handled by the Committee. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
