FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
April 
1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Governor 
Burns 
R o b e ^ s o n 
Mitchell 
Daane 
Maisel 
Brimmer 
Sherrill 
4 
Note: 
No changes from draft minutes. 

1072 
Minutes of a meeting of members of the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System on Friday, April 30, 1971. The meeting was 
held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Daane, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Hobbs and Mrs. Koester of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Staff presented the usual weekly review of economic and financial 
developments. 
Copies of the individual briefings and of the relevant 
statistical materials have been placed in the Board's files. 
Reference was made during the discussion to an article in today's 
issue of the New York Times reporting comments made by a Commerce Depart-
ment official with respect to the basic revision of the Board's index of 
industrial production currently in process, particularly in terms of the 
possible effect on the index for the first quarter of this year. 
Question 
was raised as to the appropriateness of public statements of this kind in 
1/ 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

07 
4/30/71 
-2-
advance of a Federal Reserve announcement, and it was understood that 
staff would discuss the matter with the Commerce Department. 
There followed a report on legislative developments, after 
which a number of members of the staff who had attended for the economic 
and financial review left the meeting and the following entered: 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator and Assistant 
Secretary 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel Administration 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative Services 
Mr. Bouck, Consultant 
A briefing was given concerning personnel and administrative 
contingency plans to be put into effect as necessary in light of next 
week's scheduled antiwar demonstrations in Washington. 
Governor Brimmer then reported on a recent visit, while in 
Florida, to the First National Bank of Miami. 
During discussions, 
management had indicated that the bank was considering the filing of 
an application for country bank reserve status in view of an anticipated 
adverse effect on its profits due to the impact on the clearing function 
heretofore conducted by the bank of the new Reserve Bank facility in 
Miami. Also, First National apparently had asked the Association of 
Reserve City Bankers to consider the implications of such a Reserve 
Bank clearing arrangement on bank profits, with the prospect that some 
type of protest letter might be issued by the Association. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
