MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 30, 1969 

4013 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 30, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10 r-00 a.m. 
PRESENT: M r . Robertson, Vice Chairman 
M r . Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
M r . Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
M r . Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics!/ 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance!./ 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Bernard and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Money market review. The staff presented the usual weekly 
review, including reports on the Government securities market, on bank 
credit developments, and on foreign exchange market developments. 
Copies of the statistical materials distributed in connection with the 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 
After discussion based on the staff review, members of the 
research divisions other than Messrs. Axilrod and Reynolds withdrew 
from the meeting and the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

12/30/69 
- 2 -
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
M r . 0'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Supporting staff of the respective divisions 
Policy record entries. With a memorandum of December 29, 
1969, Mr. Broida submitted a draft of policy record entry covering 
the meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee held on October 28. 
No changes had been made from the preliminary draft. 
At today's meeting, one change of an editorial nature was 
agreed upon. The entry was then approved by the Board with the under-
standing that it would be distributed to the Reserve Bank Presidents 
for possible further comments and that it would be released to the 
press about January 26, 1970, after final review by the Board. 
With a memorandum dated December 29, 1969, M r . Broida submitted 
for final review the draft of policy record entry covering the meeting 
of the Federal Open Market Committee held on October 7. The entry 
had been approved by the Board on December 3 and no further suggestions 
had been received. 
The release of the entry to the press on Monday, January 5, 
1970, was approved unanimously. 
First at Orlando Corporation. Drafts of an order and statement 
had been distributed reflecting the Board's approval on November 7, 

4013 
12/30/69 
- 3 -
1969, of the application of First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, 
Florida, to' acquire shares of First National Bank of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Florida. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. 
Copies are attached under Item No. 1. 
Savings & Trust Company of Indiana. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 22, 1969, and 
other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of The Savings & Trust Company of Indiana, Indiana, 
Pennsylvania, to merge Farmers' & Miners
1
 Trust Company, Punxsutawney, 
Pennsylvania. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Barnett National Securities Corporation. A memorandum from 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation dated December 19, 1969, 
and other pertinent papers had been distributed in connection with an 
application of Barnett National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, 
Florida, to acquire shares of Barnett Bank of Daytona Beach, Daytona 
Beach, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 

12/30/69 
- 4 -
BancOhio Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 19, 1969, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Logan 
County Bank, Bellefontaine, Ohio. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement would be drafted for the Board's 
consideration. 
Interpretation of Regulation A . Question had been raised 
whether short-term notes issued by mortgage banking companies to 
finance their temporary warehousing of real estate mortgages were 
eligible for discount by Federal Reserve Banks. In a letter to the 
Securities and Exchange Commission in 1963 the Board had held that 
such notes were not eligible for discount because they were similar 
to notes issued "for the purpose of carrying or trading in stocks, 
bonds, or other investment securities", which are ineligible for 
discount under the terms of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
However, in a memorandum dated December 19, 1969, the Legal Division 
again considered the question and concluded that mortgage company 
commercial paper need not be regarded as ineligible for that reason. 
It also concluded that the Board had the authority to define such 
paper as eligible for discount. Attached to the memorandum was a 

12/30/69 
5 
proposed interpretation of Regulation A , Advances and Discounts by-
Federal Reserve Banks. 
the conclusion reached by the Legal Division. However, Governor 
Robertson expressed the view that when the Board changed a position, 
the reasons for the change should be clearly set out. He suggested 
that the proposed interpretation be expanded accordingly. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the issuance of an 
interpretation of Regulation A in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Comments by members of the Board reflected agreement with 
Secretary 

4018 
Item No. 1 
12/30/69 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D« C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
' 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, 
' 
Orlando, Florida,
 
1 
for approval of acquisition of at least
 
1 
80 per cent of the voting shares of First ' 
National Bank of Melbourne, Melbourne,
 
1 
Florida.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has 
come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a registered bank holding company, for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of at least 80 per cent 
°f the voting shares of First National Bank of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Florida. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency 
and requested his views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended 
approval of the application. 

4 0 I S 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on September 9, 1969 (34 Federal Register 14189), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta, pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 30th day of December, 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Martin and Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

4020 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION, ORLANDO, FLORIDA, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF MELBOURNE, MELBOURNE, FLORIDA 
STATEMENT 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida ("Applicant"), 
a registered bank holding company, has applied to the Board of Governors, 
pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
(12 U«S.C« 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the acquisition of at least 
80 per cent of the voting shares of First National Bank of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Florida ("First Melbourne Bank"). 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As required 
by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice of receipt of 
the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, and requested his 
views and recommendation. The Comptroller recommended approval of the 
application. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part 
°f the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acquisition, 

4021 
-2-
the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be substantially 
to lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly, or which in any 
other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the Board finds that 
the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly 
outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction 
in meeting the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. In 
each case the Board is required to take into consideration the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank holding company 
and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served. 
Competitive effect ,c£jthe^roposed transaction. ~ The 10 
largest banking organizations in Florida, all of which are bank holding 
companies, control 38 per cent!' of all banking deposits in the State. 
Applicant has 13 subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $404 million, 
representing 3.5 per cent of the deposits held by all Florida banks. The 
acquisition of First Melbourne Bank ($16 million deposits) would increase 
Applicant's control of the State's banking deposits to 3.6 per cent, with 
a resultant negligible effect on State-wide concentration. Applicant 
would remain the fifth largest banking organization in Florida. 
First Melbourne Bank i3 located in Brevard County and serves 
an 11 mile coastal area with a population of approximately 90,000. It 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1969, unless otherwise noted, 
b
ut reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
the Board to date. 

is the second largest of seven area banks. However, two of the remaining 
six banks are subsidiaries of a bank holding company, another is the 
subject of a holding company application now pending before the Board, 
and the remaining three are members of an affiliated group of banks with 
aggregate deposits of $32 million. Another member of the latter group, 
located 11 miles north of First Melbourne Bank and just outside the area, 
also competes to some extent for area loans and deposits. In terms of 
area deposits, First Melbourne Bank is the third largest of the four 
banking organizations. Uhile approval of the subject application would 
enable the bank to compete more effectively with other banks in the area, 
it does not appear that there would be any undue adverse effect on any 
competing bank. 
Applicant's closest subsidiary is located in Brevard County at 
Cocoa, 22 miles north of Melbourne; each of its other subsidiaries is more 
than 45 miles from Melbourne. There are a number of banking alternatives 
in Cocoa and Melbourne, and in the area between. Neither the Cocoa Bank 
nor First Melbourne Bank derives any significant business from the area 
served by the other, and no existing competition would be eliminated by 
consummation of the present proposal. Neither does it appear, in view of 
the distances separating the present subsidiary banks from First Melbourne 
Bank, the presence of intervening banks, and the prohibition against 
branching under Florida law, that significant potential competition would 
be foreclosed. 
For the foregoing reasons, the Board concludes that consummation 
of the present proposal would not result in a monopoly or be in furtherance 

4023 
-4-
of any combination, conspiracy or attempt to monopolize the business of 
banking in any part of the United States, and would not restrain trade, 
substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in any 
section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiary banks is generally 
satisfactory, their managements are considered competent, and the prospects 
for the group appear favorable. 
The financial condition of First Melbourne Bank is regarded 
as satisfactory. The present management of the bank is regarded as 
competent and experienced, and its prospects are considered favorable. 
Considerations under the banking factors are consistent with 
approval of the application. 
ftgnvenience and p^eds of the communities involved. - The 
convenience and needs of customers located in areas served by Applicant's 
present subsidiary banks would not be affected by the proposed acquisition. 
It appears that the banking needs of Melbourne and surrounding 
areas are being satisfactorily served at present. No major changes 
are contemplated in the services now being offered by First Melbourne 
Bank, but Applicant anticipates greater efficiencies in the operation 
of the bank due to benefits derived from the group affiliation, and 
these efficiencies could provide indirect benefits to the community 
which it serves. In addition, affiliation would provide greater facility 
in handling large credit requests, and would permit broader services to be 

f\ < w<> 
1 
-2-
offered, thereby assuring that bank will continue to be a meaningful 
alternative to larger organizations competing in the area. 
The considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
customers in the area served by First Melbourne Bank are consistent 
with, and provide some weight in support of, approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set forth 
in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
December 30, 1969. 

Item No. 2 
12/30/69 
TITLE 12--BANKS AMD BANKING 
CHAPTER II--FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A*-BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. A] 
PART 201--ADVANCES AND DISCOUNTS EY FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
§ 201.109 
Eligi bility for discount of irortgag;c company notes . 
(a) The question has arisen whether notes issued by mortgage 
banking companies to finance their; acquisition and temporary holding of 
real estate mortgages are eligible for discount by Reserve Banks. 
(b) Under section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act the Board 
has authority to define what are "agricultural, industrial, or commercial 
purposes", which is the statutory criterion for determining the eligi-
bility of notes and drafts for discount. However, such definition may 
not include paper "covering merely investments or issued or drawn for the 
purpose of carrying or trading in stocks, bonds, or other investment 
securities"., 
(c) The legislative history of section 13 suggests that 
Congress intended to make eligible for discount "any paper drawn for 
1/ 
a legitimate business purpose of any kind" 
and that the Board, in 
determining what paper is eligible, should placa a "broad and adaptable 
2 / 
construction" 
u»>cn the terms in section 13. It may also be noted that 
Congress apparently considered paper issued to carry investment securi-
ties as paper issued for a commercial purpose", since it specifically 
prohibited the Board from making such paper eligible for discount. 
If 
"commercial" is broad enough to encompass investment banking, it would 
also seern to include mortgage banking. 
1/ House Report No. 69, 63d Cong., p. 48. 
2/ 50 CONG. REC. 4675 (1913) (remarks of Rep. Phelan). 

4036 
-2-
(d) In providing for the discount of commercial paper by 
Reserve Banks, Congress obviously intended to facilitate the current 
financing of agriculture, industry, and commerce, as opposed to long-
2/ 
term investment. 
In the main, trading in stock! and bonds is invest-
ment-oriented; most securities transactions do not directly affect 
the production or distribution of goods and services. Mortgage bank-
ing, on the other hand, is essential to the construction industry and 
thus more closely related to industry and commerce. Although invest-
ment bankers also perform similar functions with respect to newly-
issued securities, Congress saw fit to deny eligibility to all paper 
issued to finance the carrying of securities. Congress did not dis-
tinguish between n e w l y issued and outstanding securities, perhaps 
covering the larger area in order to make certain that the area of 
principal concern (i.e., trading in outstanding stocks and bonds) was 
fully included. Speculation was also a major Congressional concern, 
but speculation is not a material clement in mortgage banking opera-
tions. Mortgage loans would not therefore seem to be within the 
purpose underlying the exclusions from eligibility in section 13. 
(e) Section 201.3(a) of Regulation A provides that a 
negotiable note maturing in 90 days or less is not eligible for dis-
count if the proceeds are used "for permanent or fixed investments of 
3/ 50 CONG. REC. 5012 (1913) (remarks of Rep. Thompson of Oklahoma), 
50 CONG. .REC. 4731-32 (1913) (remarks of Rep. Borland). 

Ji J W
^ 
-2-
any kind, such as land, buildings or machinery, or for any other fixed 
capital purpQse". However, the proceecs of a mortgage company's comner-
cial paper are not used by it for any permanent or fixed capital purpose, 
but only to carry temporarily an inventory of mortgage loans pending 
their "packaging
51
 for sale to permanent investors that are usually 
recurrent customers. 
(f) In view of the foregoing considerations the Board concluded 
that notes issued to finance such temporary "warehousing" of real estate 
mortgage loans are notes issued for an industrial or commercial purpose, 
that such mortgage loans do not constitute "investment securities", e-s 
that term is used in section 13, and that the temporary holding of such 
mortgages in these circumstances is not a permanent investment by the-. 
mortgage banking company. Accordingly, the Board held that notes having 
not more than 90 days to run which arc issuec to finance the temporary 
holding oi mortgage loans are eligible for discount by Reserve Banks. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. 3'+3) 
By orler of the Board of Governors, December 30, 1969. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
(SEAL) 
