Minutes for July 15, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 9 
Increase in discount rate at Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
St. Louis, and San Francisco. 
* 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
meeting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
. ... . ... ... 
Governor Sherrill 
_ 

1735 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, July 15, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Leonard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. McClintock, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 

1738 
7/15/71 
-2-
Mr. Halley, Deputy Controller 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff members of the respective 
Divisions 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken by the available members 
of the Board at the meeting on Friday, July 9, 1971, as recorded in the 
minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Consent calendar. The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to B.M.C. Durfee Trust Company, Fall River, Massachusetts, approving 
its application for permission to issue capital notes. A copy is attached 
a s Item No. I. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting the 
Board's action on July 6, 1971, approving an application of Continental 
Bancor, Inc., Phoenix, Arizona, to become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of shares of Continental Bank, Phoenix. A copy of the 
order is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized the issuance of an order reflecting the 
Board's action on July 6, 1971, approving an application of First 
Bancorp, Inc., Corsicana, Texas, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to The First National 
Bank of Corsicana, along with beneficial ownership of between 24 and 25 
per cent of the shares of three other Texas banks. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 3. 

1737 
7/15/71 
-3-
The Board approved unanimously an application of United Virginia 
Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Security National Bank of Roanoke, Roanoke, 
Virginia, and authorized the issuance of an order reflecting that action. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved unanimously an application of T G Bancshares 
Co., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire additional shares of Bank of House 
Springs, House Springs, Missouri, and authorized the issuance of an 
order reflecting that action. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Membership application. The Board approved unanimously an 
application made on behalf of Cheyenne Western Bank, Ashland, Montana, 
a newly-organized bank, not yet operating, for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent pursuant to that action is 
attached as Item No. 6. 
Pan American Bancshares. In 1970 the Board approved an appli-
cation of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire at 
least 80 per cent of the voting shares of Commercial National Bank of 
Broward County, Broward County, Florida, in exchange for shares of the 
holding company. Less than 80 per cent of the shares were subsequently 
tendered for exchange, with the result that the exchange offer was 
terminated. In March 1971 a proposed amendment to the application was 
received, under which applicant would purchase 78 per cent of the voting 

173 
7/15/71 
-4-
/ / 
•' 
shares from a third party for $71.65 per share plus $200,000 for release 
of the third party's option. For the minority shares, applicant proposed 
to offer $64 per share. Since the offer to minority interests, although 
not equal, was judged to be fair, and since other factors weighed in 
favor of the proposed acquisition, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation recommended approval of the amended application. 
The circumstances of the case were discussed against the back-
ground of the Board's general policy of attempting to assure equitable 
treatment to all shareholders in connection with proposed holding com-
pany acquisitions, and some members of the Board suggested that the 
staff explore further with applicant the possibilities for adjusting 
the offer to minority shareholders of the Broward County bank, including 
the possibility of reinstating an exchange offer as an alternative to 
the purchase of shares. Accordingly, the staff was requested to under-
• ;•: . " 
.'•••-. 
./-.icy 
. • . 
take such exploration, with the understanding that the case would then 
VK'-.-v't; 
i..; d :,.J 
i A. 
i 
.. x : ; ; 
:.• 
' u ; ci:-- • 1 
I 
he brought back to the Board for further consideration. 
Credit analysis. In a letter dated December 8, 1970, the Board 
asked the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks to con-
sider ways in which the Reserve Banks might participate in credit 
analysis of loans that might be requested under paragraph 3 of section 
13 of the Federal Reserve Act. On June 23, 1971, the Conference approved 
a plan developed by the Subcommittee on Discounts and Credits that pro-
vided in essence for the appointment of a System task force on emergency 

1 7 3 n 
7/15/71 
- 5 -
credit, which would be available to evaluate the creditworthiness of any 
loan, and for more vigorous training of Reserve Bank personnel in the 
credit analysis area. The task force would be composed of three senior 
Reserve Bank officers, plus an associate member from the Board's staff 
who would serve in a liaison capacity. The task force would develop a 
professional group of 6 to 8 analysts experienced in the extension of 
credit to large corporate borrowers, to be available on call. An effort 
would be made to develop the staff internally, but it seemed likely 
that some of the initial personnel with the desired level of experience 
would have to be retained on a consultant basis. 
In a memorandum dated July 13, 1971, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations recommended that the Board approve the recom-
1 r^.tsmia- sura ^.itic^-' duriacf •• brius 
o!; slu-. 
mended plan and that Mr. Ring be named as associate member of the 
Task Force on Emergency Credit. 
Views expressed in discussion of the matter were to the effect 
that the plan should be put in motion and implemented as rapidly as 
possible, in order that the System might be in a position to deal effec-
tively with situations that might arise, and that full consideration 
should be given to the retention of outside experts pending the devel-
opment of expertise within the System, for training purposes and for 
availability on a standby basis. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Chairman 
of the Conference of Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 7 and 

1740 
7/15/71 
- 6 -
Hr. Ring was named as associate member of the Task Force on Emergency 
Credit. 
Emergency loan guarantees. It was noted that according to 
current reports a proposal had now been made, in connection with con-
sideration by the Senate of legislation that would create a Federal 
emergency loan guarantee board, to change the composition of that body 
so that it would include, in addition to the Secretary of the Treasury 
and the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
the President of the Federal Reserve Bank in whose district the appli-
cant for a loan guarantee was located in any given case. Under this 
proposal the Reserve Bank President would replace the Secretary of 
Commerce on the proposed board. 
Several reasons were mentioned during a brief discussion of the 
matter as to why the proposal would appear unfortunate and question was 
raised whether the Board of Governors should express a position. It 
was pointed out, however, that no request for such an expression had been 
received and that an appropriate channel for the communication of views 
was not readily apparent. In the circumstances, it was understood that 
developments would be followed closely with a view to determining, if 
and when appropriate, what Board view should be communicated and in what 
manner. 
Issue papers. During a review by the Board on November 3, 1970, 
of significant issues that had been developed by the Program Planning 
and Budgeting Committee, the Board expressed a particular interest in 

1741 
7/15/71 
- 7 -
certain of those issues and also proposed several new issues for staff 
consideration. The staff had now prepared papers on those matters, some 
in the form of requests for guidance and some in the form of status 
reports. The papers had been referred to the Board by Governor Sherrill 
with a memorandum of July 12, 1971. 
Governor Sherrill indicated that no Board action at this partic-
ular time was essential. The objective was to demonstrate how the 
i : 
\ 
;' , 
: • , 
... 
process operated and to seek guidance as to how consideration of the 
issues should be carried forward. 
Board members expressed the view that the several issues, taken 
as a group, were too involved to permit consideration at any one meeting. 
It was suggested that the issues be taken up individually, or in small 
groups, with sufficient advance notice to enable Board members to prepare 
themselves. Some of the issues were deemed important enough to warrant 
discussion by a full Board. 
wicb 1 i s; i-V'^erul iAej'^VW' 
k ^ll'tcco;.; iji-'ji. Il.l.jhi i':-
Governor Sherrill pointed out that a number of the projects 
would eventually require consideration as part of the budget process, 
and he noted that the Deputy Controller would be prepared to discuss any 
of the items with Board members to such extent as might be desired. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that staff 
work currently in process in connection with several of the issues would 
continue unless objection was indicated by a Board member or members, 

17 
7/15/71 
- 8 -
and that the procedures that had been suggested looking toward Board 
consideration of the issues on which guidance was required would be 
followed. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Foreign credit restraint. Governor Brimmer noted that the House 
had passed a bill that among other things would exempt export credits 
from the purview of the Voluntary Foreign Credit Restraint Program. He 
had had conversations with several members of the Senate on this matter 
and had offered to make himself available for further consultation, but 
at this stage he could not predict the outcome. 
Mr. Rippey then reported the possibility that the bill, if passed, 
would grant a 90-day deferment for the export credit exemption, and 
Governor Brimmer observed that such a deferment would ease the operating 
problems. He referred to work that was currently in process, in company 
with the Federal Reserve Banks, on steps that might be taken if the 
legislation was enacted and stated that alternatives would be presented 
for the Board's consideration at the appropriate time. 
Report by Governor Daane. Governor Daane reported on meetings 
that he had attended in Basle and in Paris during the trip from which 
he had just returned, and additional comments were offered by Mr. Robert 
Solomon. 

1743 
7/15/71 
-9-
Service by Mr. Partee. Governor Robertson referred to a letter 
that had been received from Chairman Casey of the Securities and Exchange 
Commission requesting that Mr. Partee be made available to serve on a 
committee that was being formed to review certain problems in the secu-
rities industry. He then read the reply that he proposed to send to 
Mr. Casey. 
The proposed reply was approved unanimously. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 8. 
Discount rate. On July 8, 1971, the directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis had established, subject to review and deter-
mination by the Board of Governors, a rate of 5 per cent (rather than 
4-3/4 per cent) on discounts and advances to member banks under sections 
13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, together with a rate of 5-1/2 per 
cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act and a 
rate of 7 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, and 
corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of section 
13. 
The reasons were set forth in a letter of the same date from 
Deputy Chairman Cooper. The directors had noted that in the past two 
weeks short-term market interest rates had continued to rise, that the 
three-month bill rate was now about two percentage points higher than 
in March, that the prime rate had been raised for the second time since 
March, and that member bank borrowings had risen to nearly $700 million 

1744 
7/15/71 
-10-
in the last half of June. The directors saw nothing in the current 
business situation that would argue for encouraging the expansion in 
bank reserves by offering them at below market rates. Information 
coming to them, both in comments from businessmen and in national 
statistics, indicated that the upturn in business activity had continued 
to strengthen recently. They felt that inflation continued as a serious 
problem and that further rapid monetary expansion was likely to intensify 
it. 
The Vice Chairman reported having received information that simi-
lar rate action was likely to be taken today by the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia, and perhaps by the 
directors of the San Francisco Bank. He noted that the terms of the 
forthcoming Treasury financing were scheduled to be announced next Wednes-
day, which meant that any discount rate action would have to be taken 
immediately or deferred for several weeks out of even-keel considerations. 
He added that the monetary aggregates continued very strong. 
In the circumstances, the Vice Chairman continued, he had talked 
this morning by telephone with Chairman Burns, who expressed the view 
that it would be better to act now than later. Among other things, the 
Chairman had pointed out that he was scheduled to appear before the 
Congress later this month, and in his view it would be desirable to 
have the discount rate matter cleared up before that time. 

1745 
7/15/71 
-11-
The Vice Chairman then turned to Mr. Partee, who presented a 
resume of the latest available information on trends in the economy. 
The report, taken as a whole, suggested considerably more strength than 
had been portrayed in earlier staff reports. On the financial side, 
Mr. Partee and Mr. Axilrod pointed out that as Governor Robertson had 
said, the monetary aggregates continued strong. The gap between the 
discount rate and short-term market rates, including the three-month 
bill rate, was substantial and increasing, with little prospect that the 
gap would narrow, and with the continued strong performance of the 
aggregates the Open Market Account Manager would be moving toward the 
upper end of the 5 to 5-1/2 per cent range for Federal funds that had 
been specified at the most recent meeting of the Open Market Committee. 
Also, member bank borrowings had moved up to the $990 million level for 
the latest statement week. 
Mr. Axilrod reported that the flows of savings funds into 
depositary institutions continued to be strong, according to the latest 
statistics. He and Mr. Partee expressed the view that a change in the 
discount rate would not be likely to lead to a further increase in the 
prime rate, which had already been raised twice and now stood at 6 per 
cent. 
With respect to possible market reactions to announcement of a 
discount rate change, Mr. Axilrod noted that if action was taken today 

.1746 
7/15/71 
-12-
the news would be released concurrently with the publication of strong 
money supply figures and figures showing the highest level of member 
bank borrowings for a year or more. He did not believe that a discount 
rate increase would have much influence over the longer run on long-term 
market rates. However, he was a bit concerned that there might be some 
inclination in the market to read more into a discount rate announcement 
than was actually involved. 
In the discussion that ensued, three members of the Board indi-
cated that they would be prepared to act favorably on the proposed 
discount rate increase. The other members present indicated that, 
although they were not necessarily opposed to such action, they would 
like a little more time to reflect on the matter. Accordingly, it was 
agreed that the Board would meet again this afternoon. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:15 p.m. with the same members of the Board present. Staff attendance 
was comparable to that at the conclusion of the morning session. 
Advice had now been received that the directors of the Phila-
delphia Reserve Bank had voted to establish a discount rate of 5 per 
cent. Advice was expected shortly that the directors of the New York 
Bank had taken the same action, and action by the San Francisco Bank 
directors appeared probable. 
(Note: Advices from New York and San 
Francisco were received subsequently during the meeting.) 

1747 
7/15/71 
-13-
The Board also had available copies of a letter in which 
President Clay of the Kansas City Bank explained why the directors of 
his Bank, meeting on July 8, had accepted by split vote his recommen-
dation against changing the discount rate. 
In further discussion of the proposed discount rate increase, 
two of the members of the Board (Governors Daane and Maisel) raised 
the question of institutional relationships, particularly whether there 
should be consultation with the Treasury. Since their views on the 
desirability of rate action now were not particularly strong, they felt 
that more weight should be attached to the question of interagency com-
munication than might otherwise be the case, although the ultimate 
decision would of course remain with the Board. 
It was then decided to arrange a telephone conference call with 
Chairman Burns in order that aspects of the situation that were of con-
cern to some of the Board members might be made known to him. During 
the course of the conference call the Chairman repeated the reasons he 
had expressed to Governor Robertson earlier today that in his opinion 
argued in favor of discount rate action at this time. On the matter of 
interagency communications, it appeared to him, for several reasons, 
that if the Board was disposed to act on the discount rate, it would be 
sufficient to inform appropriate persons within the Government prior to 
the release of the Board's announcement. He noted that this would not 
be out of line with the procedure he had followed on several occasions 

1748 
7/15/71 
-14-
when the discount rate was reduced and other policy actions were taken. 
As a result of the conversation with the Chairman, it was agreed 
that the procedure he had suggested would be followed if the Board acted 
on ,the discount rate, but that before the vote was taken Governor Daane 
would talk on a personal basis with Mr. Volcker, Under Secretary of the 
Treasury for Monetary Affairs. After Governor Daane had made his tele-
phone call to Mr. Volcker and had reported to the other members of the 
Board briefly concerning the tenor of the conversation, it was agreed 
that the Board would proceed to a vote on the discount rate proposal. 
The Board then approved unanimously the establishment of the 
following rates by the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 
St. Louis, and San Francisco, effective July 16, 1971: 5 per cent on 
advances and discounts to member banks pursuant to sections 13 and 13a 
of the Federal Reserve Act; 5-1/2 per cent on advances to member banks 
under section 10(b) of the Act; and 7 per cent on advances to individuals, 
partnerships, and corporations other than member banks under the last 
paragraph of section 13 of the Act. 
Consideration was given to a draft of press release that had 
been prepared and, after certain minor changes had been agreed upon, 
the issuance of the press release was authorized, with the understanding 
that the release would not be issued until the Vice Chairman had com-
pleted his telephone calls to the Government officials mentioned by 
Chairman Burns. 

1 7 4 9 
7/15/71 
-15-
(Note: The Board members subsequently approved the inclusion 
in the press statement of an additional sentence that was suggested by 
Governor Robertson in the light of his telephone conversations. A 
copy of the press release, as issued, is attached as Item No. 9.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 

v Q , . 
r; mU: 
s < 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
nr T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
1750 
Item No. 1 
7/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 15, 1971 
Board of Directors 
B.M.C. Durfee Trust Company 
Fall River, Massachusetts 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q 
and section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance 
of $1„5 million in subordinated notes by B.M.C. Durfee Trust 
Company, Fall River, Massachusetts, as proposed in President Sturges 
letter of June 3.8, 1971, to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, it 
is understood that any advertising with respect to the obligations 
will, in addition to being in compliance with the provisions oi 
section 2.17.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of 
the obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth m bold 
face type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims of 
depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1751 
Item No. 2 
7/15/71 
j 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
• 
i 
the Matter of the Application of 
' 
CONTINENTAL BANCOR, INC., 
' 
Phoenix, Arizona, 
1 
f°r approval of action to become a 
' 
bank holding company through the 
' 
acquisition of 69 per cent or more 
1 
the voting shares of Continental 
' 
Bank, Phoenix, Arizona. 
' 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), the application of Continental Bancor, Inc., 
Phoenix, Arizona ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of 
action whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 69 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
Continental Bank, Phoenix, Arizona ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
L
°f Banks for Arizona and requested his views and recommendation. 

-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in 
the Federal Register on May 13, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8830), 
Providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. The time for filing comments and views has expired 
and all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and 
Managerial resources and future prospects of Applicant and Bank, and 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Upon 
such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
Purpose of acquiring Bank, and is owned and managed by a group of 
directors and officers of Bank who have extensive banking experience 
i n the Phoenix area. Bank has deposits of about $46 million and 
tanks eighth in size in the Phoenix area. (All banking data are as 
December 31, 1970, and reflect holding company formations and 
acquisitions approved through May 31, 1971.) The proposal involves 
0r*ly a shift in ownership of Bank from a Texas corporation to Applicant, 
and would not adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 

1753 
- 3 -
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and Bank are consistent with approval of the application. 
Although Applicant would have substantial debt in relation to its net 
worth, several considerations diminish the importance of this factor. 
The management of Applicant is composed of senior officials of Bank 
who have exhibited strong managerial abilities since Bank's establish-
ment in 1964. Further, Bank has shown an earnings record which coupled 
with its potential earnings indicate Applicant's ability to service 
its debt without significant danger to the condition of Bank. Other 
considerations that lead to the conclusion that Applicant's debt posi-
tion does not preclude approval of the application are the adequacy 
of Bank's capital and a definite debt repayment program by Applicant. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served lend weight toward approval of the application since the 
Proposal involves the substitution of local for non-local ownership 
and such ownership will be more likely to be aware of and sensitive to 
the banking needs of the Phoenix area. It is the Board's judgment that 
tb© proposed transaction m
m 
be in tfce public, interest and ihat fche 
application should be approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the 
findings summarized above, that said application be and hereby is 
apples!'* provWed th&t she mtirn m appwnred shall not fce consmmts
' M before the thirtieth calendar day foUowing the date of this Order, 

1754 
-4-
(b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such time shall be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 15, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Mitchell and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
[SEAL] 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

1755 
Item No. 3 
7/15/71 
•UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
| 
FIRST BANCORP, INC., 
' 
Corsicana, Texas, 
; 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company. 
- 
l 
fi 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Bancorp, Inc., Corsicana, 
Texas ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior approval of action 
whereby Applicant would become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of the successor by merger to The First National Bank of 
Corsicana, Corsicana, Texas ("Corsicana Bank"). As an incident to 
the merger, Applicant would acquire the beneficial ownership of at 
least 24 per cent but less than 25 per cent of the shares of each of 
the following three Texas banks: Citizens National Bank in Ennis 
(24.7 per cent); Citizens State Bank, Malakoff (24.0 per cent); and 
First National Bank of Streetman (24.0 per cent). 

1756 
-2-
The described shares of the three banks other than Corsicana 
Bank are owned by Cornavco Corporation, all the shares of which are 
held by trustees for the benefit of the shareholders of Corsicana Bank, 
a result of the merger, Applicant will succeed to beneficial owner-
°hip of all of the shares of Cornavco Corporation and, indirectly, of 
the described shares of the three banks. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 
Cu*rency and the Texas Commissioner of Banking and requested thair 
views and recommendations. The Commissioner Slid the Comptroller recom-
mended approval of the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
eral Register on May 1, 1971 (36 Federal Register 8274), providing 
a n opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
t o the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Tim 
e for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
keen considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
fQctors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
the 
Proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
°urces and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks concerned, 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, and 
fln<"® that: 

1757 
-3-
Applicant is a newly-formed organization and has no operating 
history. Upon acquisition of Corsicana Bank ($40 million of deposits), 
Applicant would become the sixth largest bank holding company in the 
State and would control about 0.2 per cent of the commercial bank 
deposits in the State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1970, 
and reflect holding company acquisitions approved through May 31, 1971.) 
Corsicana Bank, the lead bank, is located in downtown Corsicana, 
and is the largest of ten banks in the Corsicana market by virtue of 
control of 56.8 per cent of deposits in that market. (Corsicana Bank 
will be merged into a nonoperating bank which has significance only as 
a vehicle to accomplish the acquisition of all the shares of Corsicana 
Bank. Acquisition of the shares of the resulting bank is treated as an 
acquisition of the shares of Corsicana Bank.) Streetman Bank ($2 million 
of deposits), located 18 miles south of Corsicana is also in the Corsicana 
market and has 2.3 per cent of deposits there. 
Citizens State Bank ($3 million of deposits), is located in 
Malakoff which is 27 miles east of Corsicana and is in the Athens-
Malakoff market which covers approximately the area within a 12-mile 
Radius of Athens. In this market, Citizens State Bank, with 9.4 per 
cent of deposits, ranks fourth among six banks located there. In the 
Ennis market, which is adjacent to the Corsicana market, Citizens 
National Bank in Ennis ($14 million of deposits) is the largest of three 
hanks and holds 57.6 per cent of the deposits. 

Corsicana Bank, through Cornavco, acquired an indirect 
interest in Malakoff Bank in 1966, Ennis Bank in 1967, and Streetman 
Bank i n 1969. It appears that Corsicana Bank exerts some influence 
° V e r t h e operations of these three banks. However, the Board notes 
Applicant's assertion that "neither Applicant nor FNBC [Corsicana 
fiank] controls the election of directors of any such banks or exercises 
a controlling influence over their management or policies." It appears 
thflt the proposed transaction is essentially a corporate reorganization 
existing interests and reflects neither expansion of the group nor 
a n increase in the banking resources controlled by it. On the facts 
Presented, consummation of Applicant's proposal is not expected to 
h a ve a significant effect on existing or potential banking competition. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
t h at consummation of the proposal herein would not have a substantially 
dverse effect on competition in any relevant area. Considerations 
dieting to financial and managerial resources and prospects as they 
a t e t o Applicant, Coraicana Bank, and the three associated banks 
ate 
consistent with approval of the application. Applicant will begin 
Orations in a satisfactory financial condition and will be able to 
dfgty 
management expertise from Corsicana Bank. Applicant's prospects, 
hich depend largely on those of Corsicana Bank, are favorable. 
r s relating to the convenience and needs of the relevant markets 
consistent with approval, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Pro 
Posed transaction would be in the public interest and that the 
apPlication should be approved. 

1759 
* 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons summarized above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisi-
tion so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
f. 
calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 
months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 15, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell 
and Brimmer. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1760 
Item No. 4 
7/15/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
*n the Matter of the Application of 
• 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANICSHARES INCORPORATED, 
1 
Richmond, Virginia, 
1 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
1 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
1 
fche successor by merger to Security 
1 
National Bank of Roanoke, Roanoke, 
1 
Virginia. 
' • 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Virginia Bankshares Incor-
porated, Richmond, Virginia ("Applicant"), for the Board's prior 
aPproval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
the successor by merger to Security National Bank of Roanoke, Roanoke, 
Virginia 
("Bank"). The merger has significance only as a means of > 
Requiring all of the shares of Bank; the proposal is therefore treated 
herein as one to acquire shares of Bank, 

1761 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency, and requested his views and recommendation. The 
Comptroller offered no objection to approval of the acquisition. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 26, 1971 (36 Federal Register 9581), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views 
with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded 
to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. Time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all those received have 
been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
and managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served, and finds that: 
Applicant;.Virginia's largest banking organization, controls 
11 banks with deposits of $1.1 billion, or 13.9 per cent of the deposits 
in the State. (Banking data are as of December 31, 1970, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to 
May 31, 1971.) Bank ($21 million deposits) is the smallest banking 
organization in the Roanoke area (4.8 per cent of deposits), where it 
competes with offices of three independent banks and two bank holding 
companies. Although Applicant is the largest banking organization in 

1762 
-29-
fche State, its nearest subsidiary is more than 40 miles from Bank, and 
neither it nor Applicant's other subsidiaries compete in the Roanoke 
area. Because of the distances involved, Virginia law, and other facts 
record, the development of significant competition is considered 
unlikely. In view of the foregoing, Applicant's entry into Roanoke 
through acquisition of the smallest bank should serve to enhance corn-
Petition and will not have a significantly adverse effect on competition 
in any relevant area. 
The financial condition of Applicant and its subsidiaries 
and Bank is regarded as satisfactory. Consequently, considerations 
under these factors are consistent with approval. 
The financial resources and increased competitive capacity 
o f Bank resulting from approval of the application would benefit 
residents of the pertinent market area. Accordingly, considerations 
Elating to the capacity of Bank to meet the convenience and needs of 
t h e community weigh slightly in favor of approval. It is the Board's 
judgment that consummation of the proposal would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
_ , 
« 
It is hereby ordered. For the reasons set forth above, that 
Said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisi-
t i on so approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth 
Calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three 

1763 
months after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 1 5 , 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and 
Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Mitchell. 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 

1764 
Item No. 5 
7/15/71 
1 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
— — — — 
— — — — — 
— — — — — — — 
I n the Matter of the Application of 
T G BANCSHARES CO,, 
St« Louis, Missouri, 
for approval of acquisition of 53.6 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Bank of House Springs, House Springs, 
Missouri. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
*842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by T G Bancshares Co., St. Louis, 
Missouri ("Applicant"), a bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of an additional 53.6 per cent 
more of the voting shares of Bank of House Springs, House 
Springs, Missouri ("Bank'). Applicant presently owns 24,99 per 
cent of the voting shares of Bank. 

-2-
1765 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
bitten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner 
o f Finance for the State of Missouri, and requested his views and 
recommendation. The Commissioner recommended approval of the 
application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on Hay 18, 1971 (36 Federal Register 9043), pro-
dding an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
V a s forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired 
a n d all those received have been considered. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
t h e factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the 
effect of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial 
Qw J 
a managerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and 
Panics concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o he served, and finds that: 
Applicant, the eighth largest bank holding company and 
tlle ninth largest banking organization in Missouri, has one sub-
sidiary bank with $125.7 million in deposits, representing 1.1 per 
Cet*t of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. 
(All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1970, adjusted to reflect 
0 ^ l n g company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
t o ^te.) 

1766 
» 
- 3 -
Bank ($4,7 million deposits), with 9.9 per cent of the 
area's deposits, is the fifth largest of the seven banks located in 
its primary service area, which is approximated by the northwest 
Portion of Jefferson County. Applicant's only subsidiary bank, the Tower 
Grove Bank and Trust Company, is located 24 miles from Bank in St. 
Louis, and does not compete with Bank to any significant extent. 
light of the facts of record, including the distance separating 
B*nk from Applicant's subsidiary, the presence of numerous banking ' 
alternatives, and Missouri's restrictive branching law, it does 
n°t appear that consummation of the proposal herein would foreclose 
^ e development of potential competition. Affiliation with Applicant 
should enhance Bank's ability to compete more effectively within the 
• Louis banking market. It does not appear, therefore, that 
listing competition would be eliminated or significant potential 
competition foreclosed by consummation of Applicant's proposal, or 
that there would be undue adverse effects on any bank in the area 
involved. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that con-
summation of the proposed acquisition would not have significant 
adverse effects on competition in any relevant area. Considerations 
re3-ating to the financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
a u 
e regarded as consistent with approval of the application as they 
relate to Applicant and its subsidiary, and lend weight in support 
Of 
approval as they relate to Bank, since affiliation with Applicant 
w°uld insure Bank's future financial stability and provide Bank 

1767 
-4-
with greater management depth. Applicant proposes to expand Bank's 
lending operations and to assist Bank in establishing new services 
Such as business development and trust services. The residents 
°f Bank's service area should benefit from these services. Con-
sequently, considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the area lend some additional weight toward approval. It is the 
Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth above, that 
said application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition 
8 0 approved shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
day following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
after the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 
cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
Pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July'J 5, 1971. 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson, 
and Governors Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Chairmen Burns and Governor 
Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth 
Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(sEAL) 

1768 
B O A R D Or 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/15/71 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
D D A N O 
July 15, 1971 
Board of Directors 
Cheyenne Western Bank 
Ashland, Montana 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Cheyenne Western Bank, Ashland, 
Montana, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forths 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank 
shall have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of 
not less than $120,000, and other capital funds of 
not less than $180,000, 

Board of Directors 
Cheyenne Western Bank 
-36-
1769 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank's Certificate of Authority to Commence 
Business has been issued. A certified copy of such resolution, to-
gether with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition 
numbered 3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis, Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment 
for an appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept 
the deposit of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank,- the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate 
of membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 'Hie officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 

IMfi: 
llflp 
1770 
B O A R D 
Oh" 
G O V E R N O R S 
• R T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
7/15/71 
A D D R E S S 
O r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
July 15, 1971 
Mr, Darryl R. Francis, Chairman 
Conference of Presidents of the 
Federal Reserve Banks 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
P. 0. Box 442 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr, Francis: 
The Board wishes to acknowledge with appreciation the 
response of the Conference of Presidents to the suggestion in 
the Board's letter of December 8, 1970, that a plan be developed 
for the Reserve Banks to participate in credit analysis of large 
emergency loans. 
It is noted that the Conference on June 23, 1971, 
approved the recommendation of the Committee on Discc>unts and 
Credits with respect to the organization of a Task Force on 
Emergency Credit, as recommended in a report dated June 4, 1971, 
by the Subcommittee on Discounts and Credits, and agreed that 
the Reserve Banks should press ahead with the training of their 
own. staffs in the credit analysis area. 
It is also noted that the Task Force would have an 
associate member from the Board's staff, and for this purpose 
the Board has designated P. D. Ring, Assistant Director, 
Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
cc: Mr. Hayes, Chairman, Committee on Discounts and Credits, 
Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
Mr. Garbarini, Secretary, Conference of Presidents 
of the Federal Reserve Banks 

17.71 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
b
o
a
r
d 
o f 
g
o
v
e
r
n
o
r
s 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 8 
7/15/71 
July 15, 1971 
The Honorable William J. Casey 
Chairman 
Securities and Exchange Commission 
Washington, D. C. 
20549 
Dear Chairman Casey: 
In Chairman Burns' absence I am replying to your 
letter of July 9 in which you suggested that J. Charles Partee 
be designated as the Board's representative on an informal 
review committee of practices in the securities industry. I 
am most pleased to make this designation on behalf of the 
Board. 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

Item No. 9 
7/15/71 
For immediate release. 
July 15, 1971. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of New York, Philadelphia, St. Louis, and San Francisco, 
increasing the discount rate of those banks from 4-3/4 per cent 
to 5 per cent, effective Friday, July 16. 
The action was in recognition of increases that have 
taken place in other short-term interest rates and is intended to 
bring the discount rate--which is the rate charged member banks for 
borrowing from their district Reserve Banks--into better alignment 
with short-term rates generally. The move also reflected the 
Board's concern over the continuation of substantial cost-push 
inflation in the economy. 
This change in the rate, which previously had been 
lowered twice this year, returns it to the level prevailing in 
late January and early February. 
- 0 -
