Minutes for 
December 20 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4472 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 20, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Olin of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Messrs. Gramley, Keir, Baker, Beck, Ettin, 
Fry, and Kelty of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Reynolds, Ghiardi, Hersey, 
Norwood, Bradshaw, Gekker, Gemmill, and 
Pizer of the Division of International 
Finance 
Money market review. Today's weekly review included comments 
by 
Mr. Keir on the Government securities market, by Mr. Fry on bank 
credit, and by Mr. Bradshaw on the foreign exchange and gold markets. 
C°pies of the statistical material distributed in connection with the 
review have been placed in the Board's files. 

4473 
12/20/68 
- 2 -
All members of the research divisions then withdrew except 
Messrs. Gramley, S amnions, Reynolds, Ettin, and Gemmill, and the 
following entered: 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, and Mr. Mcintosh, 
Assistant Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Egertson, Miss Hart, and Mr. Lyon, Assistant 
Directors, Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Heyde, Lipkowitz, Noble, 
Plotkin, and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ducy and Lawrence of the Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. White of the Division of Federal Reserve Bank 
Operations 
Messrs. Achor, Burton, Cloth, Garwood, Guth, and 
Kline of the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Millea of the Office of the Controller 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York and Philadelphia on December 19, 
1968, of the rates on discounts and advances in their existing 
schedules was approved unanimously, with the understanding that 
aPpropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Report on competitive factors. Unanimous approval was given 
t o the transmittal of a report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpo-
ration on the competitive factors involved in the proposed purchase of 

4474 
12/20/68 
- 3 -
assets and assumption of liabilities of Bank of Yuma, Yuma, Arizona, 
by United Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, Arizona. The conclusion read as 
follows: 
There would appear to be no competition existing 
between United Bank of Arizona, Phoenix, and Bank of 
Yuma, although there is some potential for competition 
through de novo branching. The transaction would reduce 
the number of commercial banks in Arizona from 13 to 12, 
and the overall competitive effect would be slightly 
adverse. 
Margin regulation of OTC securities. There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated December 16, 1968, from the Divisions of 
Supervision and Regulation and Research and Statistics setting forth 
Proposals for implementation of Public Law 90-437, which gave the 
Board authority to prescribe margin regulations relating to securities 
traded over the counter. 
The proposals now made by the staff were based on a survey of 
stocks traded over the counter, consultations with the securities 
industry and the staff of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and 
the general characteristics tentatively agreed upon by the Board at 
its meeting on August 14, 1968, for selection of OTC stocks to be made 
subject to margin regulation. The memorandum proposed selection 
criteria; indicated the types of stocks included if those criteria 
were adopted by the Board; considered comments so far obtained from 
interested groups; suggested procedures for changing the OTC margin 
list and for certifying market makers in the OTC margin stocks and for 

' 
/ O 
12/20/68 
- 4 -
exempting them from margin requirements; proposed amendments to Regula-
tions G, T, and U, relating to margin requirements, to extend their 
coverage to stocks traded over the counter; and generally indicated 
the period within which final implementation could be expected to be 
effective. 
At the Board's instruction, the staff had explored with staff 
°f the Securities and Exchange Commission the possibility that the 
Commission might assume responsibility for supervising a credit exemp-
tion for OTC market makers, at least during the coming two or three 
years. Staff conferences had developed proposals, described in the 
memorandum, relating to the definition of market maker, implementing 
the exemption, and surveillance and enforcement. If the Board approved 
the proposals, the Commission's staff would submit them to the Commis-
sion. 
Mr. Ettin and Miss Hart summarized the staff recommendations 
a^d the reasons therefor, following which Miss Hart emphasized that 
the proposed rule for granting market-maker exemptions had been devel-
oped only at interagency staff level. Until it was submitted to and 
aPproved by the Securities and Exchange Commission, it might be pre-
mature to publish the other proposals for comment. The Commission's 
staff hoped that if the Board approved the proposals today, the action 
would be tentative and further modifications might be made. However, 
a t this stage the Board's staff needed guidance as to the Board's 

4478 
12/20/68 
- 5 -
general view on such points as the standards proposed for developing 
a list of over-the-counter securities to be subjected to margin 
requirements. 
There ensued comments on the attitude of securities industry 
representatives, the essence of which had been that the proposals were 
theoretically acceptable but that the exemption for market makers 
would be important in practice. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the several questions regarding 
market-maker exemptions — in over-the-counter securities, in third 
markets, and in convertibles — be submitted to the Commission as a 
Package. 
Miss Hart replied that a considerable delay would result. The 
need for an exemption for market makers in convertible securities had 
been problematical, and it seemed likely that there would be opposition 
t o an exemption for block traders. 
Governors Mitchell and Daane expressed a preference for going 
forward promptly with the present proposals, while trying to maintain 
a s much harmony as possible. It would be unfortunate, in their 
°Pinion, to incur lengthy delays after the proposals had been developed 
t o their present stage. 
Governor Mitchell then referred to the tests for determining 
whether a particular stock should be included in the list to be subject 
t o margin requirements. The tests were divided into "A" and "B" groups, 

448 
12/20/68 
-6-
the latter being of secondary importance. The "B" tests specified a 
minimum average bid price of the stock of at least $10 over four ran-
dom days in the month prior to selection. It did not seem to Governor 
Mitchell that that was an appropriate measure. Of the several tests, 
°nly this one apparently could be manipulated. He believed the price 
should either be lower or the test should not be included. 
Mr. Ettin commented that the standards for inclusion on the 
list had deliberately been set low. He did not believe manipulation 
was possible under them. In response to a question, he indicated that 
a drop in the test price to $5 would not change the list very sub-
stantially. However, it would be likely to result in opposition from 
the Commission and the securities industry. Miss Hart observed that 
both the Commission and the National Association of Securities Dealers 
were advocating that the list be kept to a minimum. 
Governor Maisel said it seemed to him that the present staff 
aPproach veered from the proper course. It in effect would set up a 
Penalty list, in that credit extended to purchase any stock on that 
list would be subject to margin requirements. He felt that it would 
^e wrong to go in that direction and suggested that an effort be made, 
through the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, to have a 
statement issued to bank examiners instructing them to scrutinize 
carefully loans on over-the-counter stocks that were not on the list, 
^-t seemed to him that the proposals that had been made would not reach 
the area where the problem really existed. 

4478 
12/20/68 
- 7 -
Mr. Ettin observed that heretofore little had been known about 
the practices of banks regarding loans on over-the-counter stocks. 
However, plans were in progress for closing that information gap by 
gathering statistics on the volume of such loans and through a detailed 
survey of bank purpose loans on an individual account basis. 
Governor Maisel suggested that perhaps there should be two 
lists--one comprised of stocks on which credit could be extended and 
the other of stocks on which no credit should be extended. The present 
Proposal seemed to say that there was a problem with respect to over-
the-counter stocks not listed but there was nothing the Board could do 
about it. He believed there was something the Federal Reserve could 
do about it through the bank examination process. 
Governor Brimmer said he could not share the view that the 
efforts to date should be scrapped and a new start made. A course of 
action had been adopted, and the staff had carried out its instructions. 
He did not believe that at this stage the staff should be requested to 
stop or even slow down the project in order to examine another series 
°f issues. Instead, the Board should examine the issues that had al-
ready been raised. He did not agree with the suggestion that a price 
as low as $5 should be used as a test for listing stocks. He was 
Persuaded by the staff's argument that a minimum price of $10 would 
eliminate the very low-priced issues that might be unsuited for the 
Use of broker credit. He believed an effort should be made to persuade 

4479 
12/20/68 
- 8 -
the Securities and Exchange Commission to focus on the staff proposals 
at an early date. 
Governors Daane and Sherrill also expressed themselves in 
favor of seeking early action by the Commission. 
Governor Robertson commented that it seemed to him the Board 
could not publish the proposals for comment until agreement had been 
reached with the Commission with respect to surveillance and exemption 
for market makers. Therefore he suggested that the staff proposals 
be adopted as a basis for further refinement, and that the Commission 
be requested to give attention to the problem as early as possible. 
•i 
He suggested also that the National Association of Securities Dealers 
be requested to furnish, without reference to its previous positions, 
an entirely new commentary based on the staff proposals. He recommended 
that when the views of the Commission and the Association were received, 
a committee consisting of Governors Mitchell, Maisel, and Brimmer go 
over the proposals in the light of those comments and return the 
tatter to the Board for further consideration. 
There was unanimous agreement with the procedure Governor 
Robertson had described. 
Bank holding company applications. The following applications 
under the Bank Holding Company Act were approved unanimously after 
consideration of background material that had been made available to 
the Board, including, with respect to each case, a favorable staff 
recommendation: 

448 
12/20/68 
- 9 -
Application of Depositors Corporation, Augusta, Maine, to 
acquire not less than 80 per cent of the voting shares of 
Newport Trust Company, Newport, Maine. 
Applications of First Florida Bancorporation, Haines City, 
Florida, to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of (1) Commercial Bank of Tampa, Tampa, Florida, and (2) 
Marine Bank and Trust Company, also of Tampa. 
Application of Pan American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
93.7 per cent of the voting shares of Pan American Bank of 
Miami, Miami, Florida; 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of Bank of Dade County, North Dade County, Florida; and 51 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of Manufacturers National 
Bank of Hialeah, Hialeah, Florida. 
It was understood that an order and statement regarding each of these 
decisions would be prepared for the Board's consideration. 
Application of Tennessee Financial Corporation. In a memoran-
dum dated August 23, 1968, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
had recommended approval of the application of Tennessee Financial 
Corporation, Kingsport, Tennessee, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of 50.1 per cent or more of the outstanding voting 
shares of Carter County Bank of Elizabethton, Elizabethton, Tennessee. 
(Applicant already owned 31.98 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of First Peoples Bank, Johnson City, Tennessee.) 
Protests were received from the State Superintendent of Banks 
and the Tennessee Bankers Association, but after expiration of the 
thi 
rty-day period set by statute during which receipt of an adverse 
recommendation by the State Superintendent would have made a hearing 
mandatory. Nevertheless, the Board ordered an oral presentation, which 
was held on October 9, 1968. The Division of Supervision and Regulation, 

4481 
12/20/68 
-10-
in a memorandum dated December 6, 1968, expressed the view that the 
information emanating from the oral presentation disclosed no basis 
for changing the favorable recommendation. That recommendation had 
been based in part on the conclusion that in view of the long-standing 
affiliation between the two banks involved, they could not be said to 
compete effectively with each other. Moreover, applicant's avowed 
intention to retain control of both banks would preclude the develop-
ment of significant competition between them in the future. 
Governor Mitchell inquired about precedents for considering 
an existing affiliation between banks proposed to be acquired by a 
holding company to weigh in favor of approval. Mr. O'Connell responded 
that there had been bank holding company or merger cases in which that 
fact had been mentioned as weighing for approval, even in the face of 
some adverse competitive consequence. However, according to his rec-
ollection, there had not been any case in which substantially adverse 
competitive effects had been considered to be outweighed by the 
circumstance of existing affiliation. In the present case, he believed 
that the analysis of the application should be given greater weight 
than the allegations of the protesters at the oral presentation to the 
effect that there was competition between the two banks. In his view, 
the evidence supported the conclusion of the Division of Supervision 
and Regulation. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he had been willing to vote for 
approval before the oral presentation was held, and he was still willing 

4482 
12/20/68 
-11-
to do so. It appeared to him that a great deal had been paid in the 
way of effort and delay for the sake of public relations. 
Governor Maisel said it appeared to him that the opponents 
were mainly building a case against future expansion. 
The application was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that an order and statement reflecting the decision would be 
drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Interlocking directorates (Item No. 1). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum dated December 17, 1968, from the Legal Division 
regarding a loophole believed to exist with respect to the prohibition 
in section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 of service as an officer, 
director, or employee of a member bank by any person engaged in the 
securities business. 
In December 1967 the Board had concluded that section 32 did 
n°t prohibit a partner of a securities firm from serving as a director 
an established corporation with seven nonbank subsidiaries that had 
acquired a member bank. This unpublished interpretation stated that 
u _ 
ection 32 refers to member banks and makes no mention of a company 
that owns a member bank, and the parent corporation in this case does 
n°t appear to be established or designed to evade the statute." The 
implication was that unless the principal purpose in formation of the 
^°lding company was to evade section 32, interlocking service between 
a securities company and a holding company would not be barred. 

44 S3 
12/20/68 
-12-
In view of the recent trend toward formation of one-bank hold-
ing companies, the Legal Division believed that the Board should 
consider qualifying the earlier interpretation to exclude from its 
aPplication interlocking directorates between one-bank holding com-
panies, as well as registered bank holding companies, and securities 
firms. The appointment of persons in the securities business to their 
boards might become especially attractive to the one-bank holding 
companies currently being created by large member banks in the major 
financial centers. The Division believed that the use of bank-centered 
one-bank holding companies created a loophole for the type of abuses 
that section 32 was designed to guard against. 
The memorandum concluded with the recommendation that the Board 
draw a distinction between a holding company the principal subsidiaries 
°f which were banks and a holding company with principal subsidiaries 
engaged in activities distinct from banking. The recommended line of 
distinction would be somewhat rough and would undoubtedly require clar-
1fication as specific questions were raised. A brief survey indicated 
that only five interlocking directorates clearly might be affected by 
the proposed interpretation, but it was not unlikely that others would 
come to light. Attached to the memorandum was a draft interpretation. 
After comments by the Legal Division, Mr. Holland observed that 
there might be some disadvantage in issuing the proposed interpretation 
Prior to determination of a Board position with respect to the over-all 
one-bank holding company question. 

4484 
12/20/68 
-13-
Governor Daane suggested, however, that the proposed interpre-
tation might be advisable as a means of holding the line. 
Governor Sherrill noted that the interpretation would mean that 
a person involved in the securities business, who could not serve as a 
director of a registered bank holding company, could in some circum-
stances serve on the board of a holding company that controlled one 
bank. Therefore, the formation of such companies would seem to be 
encouraged. The Board was concerned about inequities, and it seemed 
to him that the proposed interpretation would add to them. He was 
Qisturbed that, merely to close a loophole, entrance by one-bank hold-
ing 
companies into other industries might be stimulated. 
Mr. Hexter commented that he thought it was going to the limits 
°f sustainability to apply the statute to a holding company engaged 
Principally in the ownership and control of banks. To go further, he 
believed, would be beyond that limit. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that the point made with 
respect to the pending decision on the over-all question of one-bank 
holding companies was well taken. He did not see why the interpreta-
tion should be issued at the present time unless there was pressure to 
do so. 
Response was made that there was in fact some pressure in that 
bank holding companies would be having their annual meetings soon, and 
it would be preferable to make the Board's position clear before those 
meetings rather than to have to dissolve interlocking directorates later. 

4485 
12/20/68 
-14-
Governor Robertson said that he did not see any problem regard-
ing the interpretation. It appeared to him that it merely sought to 
apply an existing statute so as to close a loophole that might soon be 
used. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the issuance of the inter-
pretation was approved, Governor Sherrill dissenting and Governor 
Brimmer remarking that he voted for approval reluctantly. A copy of 
the interpretation in the form in which it was sent to the Federal 
Register for publication is attached as Item No. 1. 
Uniform Consumer Credit Code (Item No. 2). A letter had been 
received from the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State 
Laws, signed by Alfred A. Buerger, Chairman of the Conference's Special 
Committee on Retail Installment Sales, Consumer Credit, Small Loans 
and Usury. Mr. Buerger enclosed a copy of the Revised Final Draft of 
fche Uniform Consumer Credit Code and a memorandum comparing the provi-
sions of the Code with the truth in lending provisions of the Consumer 
Credit Protection Act. He expressed the hope that the Board would make 
an early determination and formal announcement that, subject to certain 
specific exceptions, all classes of credit transactions covered by the 
Provisions of Chapter 2 of the Act would be exempt from its coverage in 
any State that enacted the Uniform Consumer Credit Code. A draft of 
rePly to Mr. Buerger had been distributed, followed by a revised shorter 
draft to which the substance of the previous draft would be attached as 
a memorandum. 

4486 
12/20/68 
-15-
After a discussion during which Governor Robertson commented 
on the rationale of the reply, the letter was approved unanimously in 
the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Bank holding company survey. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated December 13, 1968, from the Division of Research and 
Statistics regarding a proposed survey by Mr. Lawrence designed to 
obtain information on the operating policies of bank holding companies 
and the flow of funds among banks in a holding company system. The 
survey forms had been pre-tested with several bank holding company 
systems, and it was believed that the desired information could be 
Provided with little difficulty for the respondents. The Bureau of 
the Budget had approved the survey on a one-time basis. 
Governor Mitchell having indicated that he had not had an 
opportunity to examine the survey plan as closely as he would like, 
the survey was approved subject to resolution of any questions he 
might wish to raise after further study. 
Reports by foreign branches. There had been distributed a 
memorandum dated December 12, 1968, from the Division of International 
Finance requesting approval, and authorization to seek Budget Bureau 
clearance, of a monthly reporting form for foreign branches of U.S. 
banks. The form had been approved by appropriate System research groups. 
The form would provide the basis for a general reporting system 
for the branches that would be useful to an evaluation of (1) branch 

4487 
12/20/68 
-16-
activities in relation to the U.S. balance of payments and the foreign 
credit restraint program, (2) the impact of branch activities on credit 
market developments in the United States, and (3) the significance of 
these activities for Euro-dollar market developments. Consideration 
was being given to the question of what additional information it 
might be desirable to obtain on branch activities, either regularly or 
through special surveys, and additional proposals might be made later. 
Broadly speaking, the proposed form would collect essentially all of 
the information on types of assets and liabilities of branches and 
much of the information on maturities that had been proposed by the 
staff for surveillance of foreign branches in connection with the 
"shell" branch question (as described in a memorandum of October 24, 
1968, from Messrs. Dahl and Gemmill, which was among the documents 
furnished to the Board in connection with its discussion of "shell" 
branches on October 31, 1968). 
Information currently available monthly on branch activities 
was obtained from reports to the Treasury Department under an Executive 
Order pursuant to the Interest Equalization Tax Act. The proposed 
System report form, which would replace the Treasury form, would pro-
vide improved information in several important respects. Also, it 
would be a permanent, regular statistical report, not tied, like the 
Present Treasury series, to a tax law intended to be temporary. The 
System report would be required of all member banks having foreign 

4488 
12/20/68 
-17-
branches under sections 11(a) and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act. Non-
member banks with foreign branches would be asked to report voluntarily; 
at present there were only two such banks. 
In light of the interest expressed by the banking community in 
having information on Euro-dollar activities of foreign branches, it 
was proposed that the System publish, with a two-month lag, figures 
for all branches, combined, of the various categories of assets and 
liabilities denominated in dollars, and in all currencies. 
After comments by Mr. Reynolds, Governor Daane raised the 
question whether there had been sufficient exploration of the problems 
banks would have in responding. Mr. Reynolds mentioned individual 
banks that had been consulted and observed that much of the information 
called for was already being furnished to the Treasury. Governor 
Robertson pointed out that the clearance process of the Bureau of the 
Budget involved consultation with a panel that included bankers. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that there still might be a question 
whether the System should test banker reaction directly. 
Governor Mitchell said that some banks with foreign operations 
had indicated that they could not furnish figures on foreign assets on 
certain call dates for condition reports. A group of those banks had 
been invited to send representatives to a meeting in Washington to 
discuss the problem with the staffs of the Federal bank supervisory 
agencies. It was his impression that the meeting would be held in the 

4483 
12/20/68 
-18-
near future, and he suggested that the question of the reporting form 
now proposed could be taken up with the group at the same time. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that it would be unfortunate to let 
the proposal get bogged down in interagency negotiations. 
Governor Robertson advocated proceeding with the report plan, 
and Governor Sherrill agreed. 
Governor Maisel referred to the suggestion that had been made 
that a reserve requirement be imposed on banks that were obtaining 
Euro-dollars through foreign branches. He thought the reporting form 
here proposed should be examined to see if it would provide informa-
tion needed for analysis of that issue. 
Governor Brimmer expressed 
the view that there might be difficulties in trying to use one report 
for both purposes. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
reporting form would be reviewed in light of the need Governor Maisel 
had mentioned, and that banker reaction would be obtained through the 
meeting Governor Mitchell had mentioned, if feasible. Subject to 
these understandings, the reporting form was approved unanimously for 
clearance with the Bureau of the Budget. 
Truth in lending educational program. There had been distrib-
uted a memorandum dated December 17, 1968, from Mr. Olin regarding the 
question whether to employ outside professional assistance in an educa-
tion and information effort in connection with implementation of truth 

4490 
12/20/68 
-19-
in lending. Proposals from several public relations firms indicated 
that the cost would run anywhere from $50,000 to $500,000. The memo-
randum set forth preliminary questions for consideration, as well as 
reasons that would appear to justify the engaging of professional 
assistance. 
Governor Robertson emphasized that he did not expect today's 
discussion to result in a decision, which should await a meeting when 
Chairman Martin could participate. 
After comments by Mr. Olin, Mr. Coyne expressed the view that 
an educational program should be approached with caution. The Board 
had been given statutory responsibility for prescribing regulations, 
hut not for a consumer education campaign. Although other agencies 
that shared the enforcement task might advocate that the Board under-
take the educational effort because it did not operate on Congressional 
appropriations, the Congress had not so indicated. 
Mr. Cardon expressed the view that the focus should be on the 
need having the highest priority, which he thought at the present time 
was the educating of creditors. He believed that the immediate deter-
mination to be made was the best way to prepare those who must comply 
with the regulation to do so by its effective date. 
Governor Robertson expressed the view that if anything were 
undertaken in the way of public education, it should be done in the 
m°st effective way. Information cast in the kind of language that 

4481 
12/20/68 
-20-
would be understandable to the small merchant could be provided to 
various organizations that attempted to educate their memberships, 
such as trade associations, better business bureaus, chambers of com-
merce, etc., for distribution to their members. However, the Board 
would have to provide the basic material. 
Governor Brimmer expressed the view that, although education 
°f creditors should have first priority, the staff should be encouraged 
t o plan beyond that point, because he believed that the truth in lending 
legislation would require a great deal of consumer education. In his 
view, the Board had a responsibility not only to draft the regulation 
hut also some responsibility to educate consumers. However, he hoped 
much of that effort could be accomplished through the Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
matter would be considered further at a time when the Chairman could 
b e present. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
afctendance. 
Reserve Bank budgets (Item No. 3). There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated December 17, 1968, from the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations regarding the budgets of the Federal Reserve 
Banks and branches for the first half of 1969. Attached were additional 
memoranda summarizing the more significant budget provisions and setting 

449* 
12/20/68 
-21-
forth the principal facts regarding budgets for the individual Reserve 
Banks. 
Controllable expenses for all Federal Reserve Banks and 
branches combined ($119.8 million out of an aggregate of $144.8 
million for controllable and noncontroliable expenses) were expected 
to increase $7.6 million, or 6.8 per cent, over the current rate of 
expenditure. This was the largest rise for any six-month period since 
the end of the Korean War. 
The most significant factor was provision for increased sala-
ries, reflecting the combined effect of employee salary structure 
changes in ten Districts, general salary increases and merit and pro-
motional adjustments at most offices, and System-wide changes in the 
officer salary structures. This higher salary expense would raise the 
cost of fringe benefits significantly. Also contributing to the rise 
l n salary costs, although to a somewhat lesser degree, was a projected 
lncrease of 186 in the average number of employees, representing a 
continuation of the upward trend in employment begun in the second 
half of 1966. 
Other elements in the increase in controllable expenses were 
Purchases of electronic computer systems at two Reserve Banks, the 
Marshall communications switch and related contracts, and expanded 
operations at Culpeper. The increase also reflected acquisition of 
items deferred from the current budget period. 

4493 
12/20/68 
-22-
In accordance with the Government-wide program for curtailing 
expenditures, in June 1968 the Board requested each Reserve Bank to 
review its budget for the period ending December 31, 1968, to see where 
reductions could be made. Aggregate reductions of $1.3 million made 
in response to that request, however, were offset by budget over-runs 
in other areas amounting to $2.1 million. Undoubtedly, in a time of 
heavy pressure on wage rates and other prices, all institutions were 
finding it difficult to hold expenses down. It was obvious also that 
the System's expenses would have been greater if the Reserve Banks had 
not made efforts to defer or eliminate previously anticipated outlays. 
Analysis of the situation with respect to the new budget period indi-
cated that not only would costs rise substantially, but to a large 
extent the expenditures giving rise to the increases had already been 
approved by the Board. Therefore, the areas left open for economy 
seemed to be somewhat limited. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations recommended 
that the Reserve Bank budgets be accepted as submitted. However, in 
light of experience with the current period budgets and the anticipated 
increases in the first half of 1969, it was felt that some type of 
restrictive action was called for. Accordingly, the Division suggested 
that the letters informing the Federal Reserve Banks of the Board's 
action also stress the need to hold the line on expenses until such 
time as general economic circumstances changed materially. A draft 
letter in those terms was attached to the memorandum. 

4494 
12/20/68 
-23-
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that, although the prospec-
tive increase in expenses was unfortunate, it seemed that acceptance 
°f the budgets was necessary. 
Governor Daane agreed, remarking that sending an admonishing 
letter was somewhat awkward in the light of the Board's own budget 
situation. However, the spirit of the proposed letter was the same 
a s that in which the Board had approached its own budget. 
After further discussion developed agreement upon certain 
changes in wording in the draft letter, the budgets of the Federal 
Reserve Banks for the first half of 1969 were accepted as submitted. 
Unanimous approval was given to the sending of a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank Presidents in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' Offices, entered 
the room at this point. 
Director appointment. It was agreed to ascertain through the 
Chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta whether W. Cecil Bauer, 
Resident, South Central Bell Telephone Company, Birmingham, Alabama, 
would accept appointment if tendered as a director of the Birmingham 
®ranch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta for the three-year term 
beginning January 1, 1969, with the understanding that if it was found 
that he would accept, the appointment would be made. 
Secretary's Note: It having been ascertained 
that his acceptance would be forthcoming, an 
appointment telegram was sent to Mr. Bauer on 
December 23, 1968. 

4495 
12/20/68 
-24-
Bank advertising regulations. Pursuant to the discussion at 
the meeting on November 27, 1968, Governor Robertson had discussed with 
the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation a draft of regulations 
to implement the provisions of Public Law 90-505, approved on Septem-
ber 21, 1968, insofar as they related to advertisement of interest on 
deposits. A redraft of the regulations had now been distributed, based 
on the discussion with the Committee, and the revised draft was under-
stood to be acceptable to the Home Loan Bank Board. 
Governor Robertson noted that the only significant change from 
the earlier draft was the omission of the provisions regarding grace 
Periods, which had met with objection. If the Board approved the 
Present draft, there might be merit to publishing it for comment before 
banks finalized their advertising plans. However, there was a question 
whether the Board would want to take that step prior to receiving word 
from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that it was prepared to 
Publish parallel regulations for insured nonmember banks. Chairman 
Randall had indicated that he would like to confer with certain people 
and that a special meeting of the Corporation's Board would be neces-
sary if its position must be determined promptly. 
Governor Maisel expressed the view that this would not be a 
good time to issue the regulations for comment, since banks had 
already arranged for their year-end advertising. It seemed to him 
that the middle of January might be a better time. Governor Daane 

4 4 9 8 
12/20/68 
-25-
also spoke in favor of delaying publication until the FDIC could join 
l n an orderly procedure. Governor Brimmer likewise expressed the view 
that it might be advisable to wait until the middle or end of January, 
although he would not wait unduly for the concurrence of the FDIC. 
After further discussion of various problems of timing, it was 
Agreed that publication would be withheld temporarily and that in the 
meanwhile efforts would continue to obtain agreement on the part of 
the FDIC to publish comparable regulations. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
2:30 p.m. with all members of the Board except Chairman Martin present 
and the following staff: 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Kelleher, Director, Division of Administrative 
Services 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Millea, Assistant to the Controller 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
First Plymouth National Bank (Item No. 4). Reference was made 
t o the Board's order of December 19, 1968, approving the application 
First Bank System, Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, to acquire shares 

4497 
12/20/68 
-26-
°f First Plymouth National Bank, Minneapolis, a proposed new bank. It 
was reported that Mr. John A. Moorhead, Chairman of the Board of North-
western National Bank of Minneapolis, had called on the telephone and 
expressed his resentment with respect to certain passages in the Board's 
statement on the matter, particularly citations to evidence in the 
record that existing banking offices had not responded in adequate 
measure to the residents and small businesses in the neighborhood con-
cerned. Mr. Moorhead requested that the comment be retracted or that 
a H of the evidence be opened to full disclosure. 
Mr. O'Connell had drafted a letter that might be sent to Mr. 
Moorhead, and this draft was read. There followed questions concerning 
the consistency of the proposed letter with the record in the matter, 
after which certain changes in phraseology were suggested. Unanimous 
•^EProval then was given to the sending to Mr. Moorhead of a letter in 
tlle form attached as Item No. 4. 
Review of division budgets. The Board resumed its review of 
budgets proposed by the several divisions and offices of the Board for 
the calendar year 1969. The budgets and related programs reviewed 
today were those of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, the 
Office of the Secretary, the Division of Personnel Administration, the 
Legal Division, the Board Members' Offices, and the Office of the 
Controller. In addition, Mr. Shepardson discussed the proposed budget 
for the annex building. 

4498 
12/20/68 
-27-
It was understood that consideration of the budgets would 
continue at another meeting. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
I 

4439 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
I t e m N o # i 
12/20/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 218 - RELATIONS WITH DEALERS IN SECURITIES 
UNDER SECTION 32, BANKING ACT OF 1933 
• 
i1 •• 
; . 
v . 
Applicability to Bank Holding Companies 
^ 218.114 Interlocking service between securities companies and bank 
holding companies. 
(a) The Board has recently considered whether section 32 of 
the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) and this part (Regulation R) 
Pr°hibit a person primarily engaged in securities activities described 
ln section 32, or associated with an organization so engaged, from 
as an officer, director, or employee of a holding company pro-
P°Scd t o be organized by a member bank to own all the stock of such bank. 
' to 
. 
(b) Section 32 provides in relevant part that: "No officer, 
dir 
Cct°r, or employee of any corporation or unincorporated association, 
Partner or employee of any partnership, and no individual, primarily 
ri§aged in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribu-
tio 
at wholesale or retail, or through syndicate participation, of 
°Gks> bonds, or other similar securities, shall serve [at] the same time 
as aW officer, director, or employee of any member bank . . . 
(c) As the United States Supreme Court observed in Board of 
v. Agnew, 329 U.S. 441 (1946), "Section 32 is directed to the 
Probnk • i • 
DHity or likelihood, based on the experience of the 1920's, that 
a bank director interested in the underwriting business may use his influence 
in 
e bank to involve it or its customers in securities which his under-

.. 4500 
- 2 -
Writing house has in its portfolio or has committed itself to take. . . . 
It [section 32] is a preventive or prophylactic measure." 
(d) In an earlier interpretation, the Board had concluded that 
section 32 did not prohibit a partner of a securities firm from serving 
as a director of a long-established holding company, with seven nonbank 
Subsidiaries, that recently had acquired the controlling stock of a member 
kank. In distinguishing that situation from the present matter, the Board 
observed that the predominant - in fact, almost the sole - function of 
proposed bank holding company would be to hold the stock of the bank. 
It therefore appeared to the Board that the affairs of the member bank 
and the hold ing company would be so closely identified and functionally 
rclated that the same possibilities of abuse which section 32 was designed 
to guard against would be present in the case of a director of the holding 
c°TCpany as in the case of a director of the member bank. To give cognizance 
to the separate corporate entities in such a situation, would, in the Board's 
°Pinion, partially frustrate Congressional purpose in enacting the statute. 
(e) The Board concluded that where the principal activity of 
holding company is the ownership and control of banks, including one or 
ni0rG member banks, the holding company and each member bank subsidiary 
should be considered as constituting together a single entity for section 
32 
Purposes, so that a person who is primarily engaged in section 32 
Usiness or associated with an organization so engaged is prohibited by 
law from serving as an officer, director, or employee of such a 
hol<Hng company. 

•fy'ir:; 
: t r. 
ut ar 
- 3 -
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). Interprets or applies 12 U.S.C. 78.) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 20th day of December, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
(SEAL) 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
•il; 
vha: 

AofCOv"•. ( 
4502 
B O A R D OF G D V E R N D R 5 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
C. 
2 D 5 5 I 
Item No. 2 
12/20/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
December 26, 1968. 
Alfred A. Buerger, 
1525 Marine Trust Building, 
Buffalo, New York. 
14203 
°ear Mr. Buerger: 
This is in reply to your letter of November 1, 1968, in 
which you enclosed a copy of the Revised Final Draft of the Uniform 
Consumer Credit Code, and a memorandum comparing the provisions of 
the Code and the Truth in Lending Act. In your letter you ex-
Pressed the hope that the Board would make an early determination 
and formal announcement that, subject to certain specific exceptions, 
all cla sses of credit transactions covered by the provisions of 
Chapter 2 of the Act would be exempt from its coverage in any State 
which enacted the Uniform Consumer Credit Code. 
Considerations bearing on possible exemption of transactions 
from the Truth in Lending Act in States that adopt the consumer 
credit code are discussed in the attached memorandum, but may be 
briefly summarized. 
Section 123 of the Federal Truth in Lending Act provides 
for exemption of credit transactions if State "requirements" are 
^substantially similar" to the Federal requirements and there is 
adequate provision for enforcement." This necessarily requires 
consideration of (1) Federal and State substantive statutes, (2) 
Federal and State substantive regulations, and (3) whether there is 
adequate provision for enforcement. 
The Revised Final Draft of the Uniform Consumer Credit 
Code seems to have a high degree of similarity to Chapter 2 of the 
•^ruth in Lending Act, although there are some differences, especially 
with respect to the Federal statute's (but not the Code's) application 
t° one who "arranges" for consumer credit and the Code's (but not the 
federal statute's) exemption of credit secured primarily by "business 
c°llateral." It is difficult to appraise the significance of such 
differences in the absence of operating experience, and sponsors of 
tlle Code would have the alternative of adjusting the Code to the 
Federal statute or allowing the differences to continue and accepting 

4503 
Mr. Alfred A. Buerger 
- 2 -
the likelihood that particular transactions affected by the 
differences might not be eligible for exemption from the Federal 
requirements. 
In view of the provisions of section 123, the Board cannot 
give an advance commitment on exemption without reference to actual 
regulations implementing the Code and to provision for enforcement. 
However, in accordance with the intent of Congress, the Board is 
desirous of exempting all qualified classes of transactions governed 
by State law as rapidly as possible. Adoption of the code, aside 
from differences such as those mentioned above and discussed in the 
attached memorandum, would be a method of satisfying the statutory 
portion of the substantive requirements, and thus would be a step 
that could lead to exemption when supplemented by suitable regulations 
and provision for enforcement. 
Sincerely, 
(signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson. 
Attachment 

M E M 0 R A N D U M 
4504 
Re: Application for Determination that Transactions Subject 
to the UCCC are exempt from the Truth in Lending Act. 
The drafters of the Uniform Consumer Credit Code have submitted 
a copy of the Revised Final Draft of the Code, and a memorandum comparing 
the provisions of the Code and the Truth in Lending Act. They have 
expressed the hope that the Board would make an early determination 
and formal announcement that, subject to certain specific exceptions, 
all classes of credit transactions covered by the provisions of Chapter 2 
of the Act would be exempt from its coverage in any State which enacted 
the Code. 
The Truth in Lending Act both generally and specifically 
provides for the promulgation of a regulation by the Board which 
contains substantive provisions. In the light o£ section 103 (k), 
which provides that any reference to requirements or provisions of the 
Act includes reference to the regulations of the Board, it is clear that 
the reference in section 123 to the substantial similarity of State 
requirements to Federal requirements contemplates substantial similar-
ity to the substantive requirements of both the Act and the Regulation. 
A proposed draft of the Board's Regulation was published for 
comment on October 16, 1968. At present it is being revised in the 
light of the comments received on the draft and further staff study. 
Consequently, the Regulation is not in final form and cannot be used 
at this point as a firm base for comparison with the Uniform Consumer 
Credit Code in judging the similarity of the Code's requirements to 

. 2 - 
4 5 0 5 
Federal requirements. For this reason it appears to have been prudent 
on the part of the drafters of the Code to have taken the general 
approach, as indicated in their memorandum, of incorporating into the 
Code itself only the text of the Act, leaving the incorporation of 
the Federal regulations to be done by State rules. 
A review of the text of the Code indicates that the Administrator 
is given powers broadly similar to those given the Board by Congress. 
Although specifying that the Administrator shall adopt rules not incon-
sistent with the Federal Consumer Credit Protection Act, section 6.104(2) 
provides that the Administrator may adopt rules providing for "adjust-
ments and exceptions for any class of transactions...which in the 
judgment of the Administrator are necessary or proper to effectuate 
the purposes or to prevent circumvention or evasion of, or to facilitate 
compliance with" the disclosure provisions of the Code. It appears, 
therefore, that considerable authority is placed by the Code in the 
Administrator to issue regulations which themselves might include 
substantive requirements that possibly would be at variance with 
Federal requirements. 
Consequently, it seems clear at this point in time (in advance 
of final adoption of the Federal Regulation and prior to the issuance 
of any specific regulations by a State administrator) that it is not 
possible to make a determination as to substantial similarity between 
the Code and Federal requirements other than on the partial basis of 
judging the similarity between the Code and Act without reference to 
either State or Federal regulations. 

- 3 - 
. 4506 
Furthermore, before the Board may grant an exemption from the 
Act it must determine that there is "adequate provision for enforcement" 
of the State law. The meaning of "adequate provision for enforcement" 
is not altogether clear. Would there be, for example, adequate provision 
for enforcement if a State, although it enacted the Code, failed to 
appoint an administrator? Or appointed an administrator, but failed to 
appropriate any funds for staffing or enforcement activities? 
Certainly, on the (:ace of the Code it appears that there are 
fairly wide enforcement powers available to the Administrator, for example, 
to conduct investigations (6.106), issue cease and desist: orders (6.108), 
accept assurances of discontinuance (6.109), bring civil actions to enjoin 
violations (6.110), seek temporary restraining orders (6.112), and revoke 
licenses of supervised lenders (3.504). Also, sections 5.203 and 5.302 
contain provisions like the Federal statute covering civil and criminal 
liability for violation of the disclosure requirements of the Code. How-
ever, in view of the uncertainties regarding the actual enforcement 
machinery, it would appear that the Board could not state at this time 
that adoption of the Code would necessarily assure "adequate provision 
for enforcement." 
With regard to a comparison of the Code and Act, the Code specif-
ically excludes from its coverage the sale of insurance by an insurer, 
transactions under public utility or common carrier tariffs if governmentally 
regulated, and the disclosure of rates and charges by a licensed pawnbroker. 

- 4 - 
450*7 
While requiring sellers and lenders to make disclosures which 
appear to correspond to those required in the Act, the Code does not, 
like the Act, place a burden for making those disclosures on one who 
"arranges" for an extension of credit. It is somewhat difficult to 
judge the magnitude of this variance in advance of any experience with 
the actual operation of the Federal Act. It may be that credit customers 
will be adequately protected by disclosures received by them solely from 
those actually extending credit. On the other hand, for example in the 
case of an automobile transaction in which a seller merely arranges for 
the extension of loan credit by a third party, the customer may not 
receive as meaningful disclosures under section 3.306 of the Code deal-
ing with consumer loans as he would if they were coupled with those under 
section 128 of the Act dealing with sales. Furthermore, it may be that 
the inclusion of the concept of placing responsibility on one who 
"arranges" for credit is important to insure that the customer actually 
receives some disclosures. 
There is also the variance between the Code and Act in that 
under section 3.104(2)(a) a loan, although perhaps obtained for personal, 
family, household, or agricultural purposes, is not subject to the Code 
Provisions if secured primarily by business collateral. This might create 
certain fairly broad exclusions in the agricultural area. 
There is the 
attempt to avoid such agricultural loopholes by the exclusion of farm 
equipment from "business equipment" otherwise considered business collateral 
in section 3.105, but it may be necessary to see what develops in practice 
under the Act before being able fully to assess this variance. 

- 5 - 
. 4508 
In conclusion, the Uniform Consumer Credit Code seems to have a 
"igh degree of similarity to Chapter 2 of the Truth in Lending Act, 
except perhaps for the variations noted above. Nevertheless, it would 
* 
- 
.
* 
^appear that the Board could not give an advance commitment on exemption 
without reference to actual regulations implementing the Code and provision 
enforcement. On the other hand, adoption of the Code would place a 
State in a favorable position in seeking an exemption from the Federal law 
should it supplement the legislation with appropriate regulations and 
Provision for enforcement. 

OV G ( W • . 
2: 
B O A R D O F G u V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 3 
12/20/68 
A D D R E S S OFFICIAL C O R R E S P D N n f N C t 
TO T H E B O A R D 
December 24, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has reviewed and accepts the budget of your Bank, 
a s submitted, for the first half of 1969. 
The Board notes, however, that total controllable System 
exPenses are again expected to rise significantly ($7.6 million, or 
6.8 per cent, over the current rate of expenditure) and that all 
Reserve Banks exceeded the adjusted budgets for the last half of 1968. 
Considering the prevailing economic situation, which continues 
to require restricted Federal spending, the Board feels that considerable 
restraint should be exercised by the Reserve Banks in administering their 
budgets during the coming months. Overruns in budgeted expenses should 
ke avoided except in exceptional or emergency cases and budget underruns 
should be achieved wherever possible. It is recognized that budget 
underruns may be difficult because of the increasing demands that are 
being placed on both the Board and the Reserve Banks, and that there may 
ke a necessity for new or expanded programs not provided for in the 
budgets. The Board hopes, however, that to the extent possible any such 
additional expenditures will be offset by economies elsewhere. Among 
tbe steps toward this latter goal, the Board requests that each Bank 
scrutinize the need for additional employees and eliminate any positions 
^at, while desirable, are not required for the effective discharge of 
r e s p o n s i b i l i t i e s . 
Accordingly, although your budget for the first half of 1969 
h a s been accepted as submitted, the Board will expect your Bank to bear 
ln mind the foregoing considerations in the process of budgetary 
administration. 
Very truly yours, 
^ ^ ^ 
^JCA. /* . / 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 
T 0 THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

OOJ 
4510 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
DF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
WASHINGTON. O. C. eOSBI 
Item No. 4 
12/20/68 
OFFICE Oi 
I HE VICE 
CHAIRMAN 
December 20, 1968. 
Mr. John A. Moorhead, 
Chairman of the Board, 
Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis, 
7th and Marquette Avenue, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 
55440 
Dear Mr. Moorhead: 
This refers to the Board's published Statement of 
December 19, 1968, approving the application of First Bank System, 
Inc- > Minneapolis, Minnesota, for approval of the acquisition of 
First Plymouth National Bank, Minneapolis, Minnesota, a proposed 
n e w bank. 
Particular reference is made to page 4 of the Board's 
supporting Statement containing the following sentence: 
"The evidence reflects that existing banking offices 
that are potential sources of banking services have not 
responded in adequate measure to the residents and small 
businesses on the Near North Side, particularly the black 
minority located there." 
You have made known to me by telephone today your concern that the 
foregoing sentence reflects adversely upon Northwestern National Bank 
o f Minneapolis and upon the quality and extent of the service that it 
ls rendering to the community concerned. 
The sentence to which you refer was intended to reflect the 
oard's conclusion that the preponderance of the evidence of record 
Gstablished the need for an additional banking outlet in this partic-
u ar locality. 
It was not intended to reflect upon any existing bank 
0 r to its interest or effort in serving the community. 
You have my permission to use this letter for any purpose 
y° u consider appropriate. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 
