MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 22, 1967 

. 4326 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, December 22, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman!/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. DaanejV 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics^/ 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 2J 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Forrestal and Miss Wolcott of the 
Office of the Secretary 
Money market review. The usual weekly review was presented; 
°Pies of the statistical materials prepared in connection therewith 
h a ve been placed in the Board's files. 
All members of the research divisions except Messrs. Brill 
^ Partee of the Division of Research and Statistics and Messrs. 
Sol 
0Tn°n a nd Samnons of the Division of International Finance then 
thdrew from the meeting and the following entered: Mr. Shay, 
Assist-
ant General Counsel, and Mr. Craig of the Legal Division. 
^ ^ ^ d e d Tfternoon session only. 
e r officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

12/22/67 
-2-
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on December 18 and by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Atlanta, and San Francisco 
on December 21, 1967, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Foreign banking matter. Unanimous approval was given to a 
letter to Morgan Guaranty International Banking Corporation, New York, 
New York, granting consent to the acquisition of additional shares of 
Credito Bursatil, S.A., Mexico City, Mexico. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Question under section 32 of Banking Act of 1933. There 
had been distributed a memorandum dated December 19, 1967, from the 
Legal Division relating to the question whether section 32 of the 
inking Act of 1933 would prohibit service of a securities dealer 
0ri the board of directors of a corporation that controlled a member 
k^nk. The Division concluded that the provisions of section 32 would 
luc prohibit such service, given the facts at hand in the particular 
C a s e involved, since the statute was limited to interlocking service 
ketween securities dealers or underwriters and officers or directors 
of 
Member banks. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter 
to the law firm that had raised the question. 

12/22/67 
-3-
After discussion the letter was approved unanimously; a 
copy is attached as Item No. 2. The substance of the letter was 
sent to all Federal Reserve Banks for their information. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Kenyon, Holland, 
Solomon (International Finance), and Sammons left the room at this 
point. 
Balance of payments. After cautioning that today's discussion 
should be held in strict confidence, Governor Robertson reported on 
high -level Government meetings in which he and Governor Brimmer had 
Participated that had as their objective the formulation of a new U.S. 
balance of payments program, to be announced shortly, such program 
being regarded as essential in view of the severity of the further 
ueterioration in the country s balance of payments position and the 
"'agnitude of the deficits currently being accumulated. 
Governor Robertson, and later Governor Brimmer, brought 
° u t that thus far the meetings had been marked by a failure of the 
c°nferees to agree on certain points that were vital to the construction 
the proposed program, one of the principal questions having to do 
w*-th the extent to which reliance should be placed on appeals for 
v°luntary cooperation or on actions for which authority presently 
existed, as contrasted with actions for which additional legislative 
authority would be required. 

4929 
12/22/67 
-4-
Governors Robertson and Brimmer then outlined the several 
areas that the debates had covered and some of the specific issues 
involved, following which Governor Robertson noted that the matter 
of immediate concern was that at the conclusion of yesterday's 
meeting the departments and agencies represented had been invited 
to submit their views to the Secretary of the Treasury in memorandum 
form, to reach the Secretary not later than four o'clock this after-
noon. 
Governor Robert son recalled that it had been suggested at 
yesterday's meeting that one such memorandum might deal with the 
activities of the Export-Import Bank and their possible further 
restriction to avoid undue adverse impact on the balance of payments. 
There was general agreement that a memorandum dealing with that point 
should be submitted, and it was understood that such a paper was 
Presently being drafted for the Board's consideration. 
The discussion then turned to the question of submission 
a more general memorandum, and it was the consensus that such a 
memorandurn should be transmitted to the Secretary. The prevailing 
view was that the memorandum should not attempt to deal with the 
specifics of various components of the overall balance of payments 
Pr°gram, but that the Board should lend its full support to the formulation 
a program that would have a substantial impact and suggest types of 
measures that in its opinion deserved full consideration. 

4930 
12/22/67 
-5-
The situat ion appeared to the Board members to require 
basically two types of actions, the first being the development 
and announcement of a "crash" type of program that hopefully would 
serve to benefit the balance of payments appreciably in the short 
run. In this connection, while it was not felt that opposition 
should be expressed to the seeking of new legislation to such extent 
as might be considered desirable, it was felt that advantage should 
be taken of measures that would not require new legislation to 
construct as strong an overall program as possible to deal with the 
immediate problem, since it was not apparent that new legislation 
would be forthcoming promptly, if at all, in at least some of the 
areas involved. 
In any event, it was the view of Board members that what-
ever measures were presently announced must be regarded essentially 
a s constituting a stop-gap approach and that study should continue 
looking toward the development of a program designed to deal funda-
mentally with the correction of the balance of payments disequilibrium 
°ver the longer run. 
Against that background the Board examined the kinds of 
exPressions that it was believed might appropriately be made in a 
me"iorandum 
to the Secretary of the Treasury with respect to several 
Problem areas that were contributing to the balance of payments deficit, 
Eluding 
capital flows, discrimination against U.S. exports, and 
forelgn travel by U.S. residents. 

4 931. 
12/22/67 
-6-
A fair measure of agreement having been reached on the 
framework of the proposed memorandum, which Governor Robertson urged 
be kept reasonably brief, it was understood that the staff would 
continue to work on the drafting of the document with a view to 
Board consideration of the draft at a meeting early this afternoon. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board 
Room at 2:30 p.m. with Chairman Martin and Governors Robertson, 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill present. Members of the staff 
in attendance included Messrs. Kenyon, Holland, Solomon (International 
Finance), and Sammons. 
Balance of payments. Pursuant to the understanding at the 
conclusion of this morning's session, there were available drafts of 
two memoranda proposed for transmittal to the Secretary of the Treasury, 
°ne containing comments and views relating to the formulation of the 
n ew U.S. balance of payments program, currently in process of 
negotiation, and the other containing recommendations with regard 
t o actions that might be taken to tighten the program of the Export-
Import Bank. 
The memorandum on the Export-Import Bank, taken up first, 
W a s regarded as suitable for transmittal to the Secretary, and there 
W a s no substantive discussion concerning it. 
The other memorandum also was regarded as generally 
Satisfactory. As to the program for reduction of direct foreign 

4932 
12/22/67 
-7-
investments, administered to date on a basis of voluntary cooperation 
by the Department of Commerce, it was noted that in the recent inter-
agency meetings a goal had been mentioned of curtailing by $600 million 
during 1968 the outflow of some $2.7 billion experienced during the 
current year. A view was expressed that an objective should be 
established of achieving "considerably more" improvement in that area, 
and the staff was requested to revise the pertinent portion of the 
Memorandum accordingly, with indication also that the foreign credit 
restraint program administered by the Federal Reserve for banks and 
other financial institutions would be designed in such manner as to 
b e consistent with the goal established in regard to direct foreign 
Investments. 
There followed suggestions for modifying the portion of 
the draft memorandum dealing with the possibility of obtaining legis-
lation to lessen the disadvantage at which U.S. exports were placed 
comparison with exports of certain European countries, and it was 
understood that the staff would take those suggestions into account. 
It was then agreed that the two memoranda, revised as 
indicated, would be transmitted by the Chairman to the Secretary of 
th 
e Treasury, with the understanding that the Chairman, in transmitting 
Gm> would be free to indicate that the views contained therein were 
shared by the other members of the Board. 

4933 
12/22/67 
-8-
(Note: Copies of the memoranda, as transmitted, have been 
placed in the files of the Board.) 
Messrs. Solomon and Sammons withdrew from the meeting at 
this point. 
Atlanta Bank. Speaking as a member of the Committee on 
Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans, Governor Maisel 
reported that the Committee had met with Mr. Monroe Kimbrel concerning 
management succession and related problems at the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta. He said the Committee had thereafter concluded 
that the Board of Governors should take a position of being willing 
to approve the appointment of Mr. Kimbrel as President of the Bank 
to succeed Mr. Patterson. However, there remained the question of 
selection of a First Vice President. Mr. Kimbrel favored the appoint-
ment of Mr. Robert E. Moody, Jr., currently Vice President in charge 
the Nashville Branch, and had expressed the view that the intro-
duction of a person from outside the Atlanta Bank at this time might 
have a detrimental effect on staff morale. On the other hand, in 
view of the operating problems that appeared to exist the members 
the Committee felt that consideration should be given to persons 
from other Reserve Banks who might be available, and subsequent to 
the meeting with Mr. Kimbrel a list of some eight names had been 
drawn up. 

4934 
12/22/67 
-9-
The proposal of the Committee was that Chairman Martin 
communicate to the Atlanta Bank the fact that the Board was prepared 
to approve Mr. Kimbrel's appointment as President but make known the 
Board's concern about the selection of a strong operating man as 
First Vice President, with the suggestion that consideration be 
given to names such as those included on the list prepared by the 
Committee. 
After a brief discussion, Chairman Martin expressed agree-
ment that the two problems should not be separated and requested that 
the questions involved be held over for further consideration at another 
-
meeting of the Board. 
(Note: Upon receipt of advice on December 28, 1967, that 
the directors of the Atlanta Bank were prepared to fix the salaries 
President Patterson and First Vice President Kimbrel at their 
Current annual rates for the month of January 1968, Chairman Martin 
informed the Chairman of the Bank of the Board's approval of the 
Proposed action. Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of the confirming 
letter subsequently sent to the Bank.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On December 21, 1967, 
a letter was sent to the Archivist of the 
United States transmitting a request for 
authority to dispose of certain types of 
Board records. 

4335 
12/22/67 
-10-
On December 21, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the fol-
lowing items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics 
dated December 21, 1967, recommending that certain members of the 
Board's staff engaged in recruiting economists at the meetings of the 
Allied Social Science Associations be reimbursed for the cost of meals 
taken at the Sheraton Park Hotel during the period December 27-30, 
1967, and that Levon Garabedian be reimbursed for the cost of meals 
taken at the hotel during the period December 26-30. (On December 23, 
Governor Robertson approved the recommendation in a memorandum of 
December 22 from the Division of Research and Statistics that certain 
additional staff members be reimbursed for meals taken at the hotel 
during the period December 27-30.) 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to 
the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Robert Steinberg as Chief, Methodology and Procedures 
Section, Division of Research and Statistics, with basic annual 
salary at the rate of $19,017, effective the date of entrance upon 
duty. 
Salary_ increases, effective December 31, 1967 
J-f' * • 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Legal 
phyllis A. Field, Secretary 
$ 6,137 
$ 6,342 
Research and Statistics 
!r\ , 
Normand R. V. Bernard, Economist 
Irving Gedanken, Statistican 
Anita E. Perrin, Secretary 
Examinations 
James F. Leyman, Assistant Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
John N. Lyon, Supervisory Review Examiner 
16,897 
17,425 
17,425 
17,953 
7,777 
7,982 
8,054 
8,323 
16,897 
17,425 

4936 
12/22/67 
-11-
Salary increases, effective December 31, 1967, continued 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Examinations 
————. 
Mary Malinchock, Statistical Assistant 
$ 7,367 
$ 7,572 
John T. McClintock, Assistant to the 
Director 
19,630 
20,243 
Administrative Services 
John D. Smith, Assistant to the Director 
15,841 
16,369 
Luvenia Young, Teletype Operator 
5,937 
6 123 
Office of the Controller 
Helen L. Lee, Accounting Clerk 
6,137 
6,342 
L. Waite Waller, Jr., Supervisory Accountant 
11,461 
11,843 
Data Processing 
Daisy L. Condon, Secretary 
7,572 
7,777 
Jo Ann L. Innocente, Secretary 
8,309 
8,534 
Robert Sampson, Administrative Assistant 
11,461 
11,843 
Salary increase, effective January 1, 1968 
Gloria J. Ogden, Secretary, Division of Research and Statistics, 
r o m $7,184 to $7,876 per annum. 
X^arisfers 
Frank de Leeuw, from Senior Economist to Chief, Special 
Studies Section, Division of Research and Statistics, with an increase 
basic annual salary from $19,630 to $20,243, effective January 1, 1968. 
Edward C. Ettin, from Economist to Chief, Capital Markets 
ection, Division of Research and Statistics, with an increase in 
basic annual salary from $17,425 to $19,017, effective January 1, 1968. 
Joseph S. Zeisel, from Senior Economist to Chief, National 
ncome, Labor Force, and Trade Section, Division of Research and 
tatistics, with an increase in basic annual salary from $21,469 to $22,082, 
effective January 1, 1968. 

4937 
12/21/67 
-12-
On December 22, 1967, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memoranda 
recommending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Acceptance of resignations 
Barbara Jane Sawyer, Stenographer, Legal Division, effective 
the close of business December 28, 1967. 
Eugene F. Frankenberger, Purchasing Assistant, Division of 
Administrative Services, effective the close of business December 5, 
1967. 
Juanita Mae Livingston, Cafeteria Helper, Division of 
Administrative Services, effective the close of business December 22, 
On the dates shown, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 
1967. 
^December 21, 1967 
j&Jihe Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
aPproving the designation of 37 employees as 
sPecial assistant examiners. 
4 
By 
the Director of the Division of Personnel 
^ministration 
better to the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
aPproving the appointment of Alfred R. Janz and 
Joseph N. Baumann as Alternate Assistant Federal 
Reserve Agents. 
5 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Approving the appointment of Barry K. Robinson as 
A1ternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent. 
6 

. 4938 
12/22/67 
-13-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Item No 
Letter to Bristol County Trust Company, Taunton, 
Massachusetts, approving the establishment of an 
in-town branch. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Letter to Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, approving the 
establishment of an in-town branch. 
On December 22, 1967 
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
declining to approve the appointment of Dean A. 
Gurney, Jr., as assistant examiner. 
Letter to The Colonial Bank and Trust Company, 
Waterbury, Connecticut, approving the estab-
lishment of an in-town branch. 
Ql the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to City Trust Company, Bridgeport, 
Connecticut, approving the establishment 
o f a branch in Fairfield. 
8 
9 

4939 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
12/22/67 
A O D R C B S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 22, 1967. 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of December 6, 1967, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase 
and hold 18,000 additional shares, par value Mexican Pesos 100 per 
share, of Credito Bursatil, S. A., Mexico, D. F., Mexico, at a cost 
o f approximately US$216,000, provided such stock is acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, the Board also approves the purchase 
and holding of such shares in excess of 10 per cent of your Corpora-
tion's capital and surplus. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved, combined with other foreign loans 
and investments of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of 
York, and Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, will 
cause the total of such loans and investments to exceed the guide-
lr*es established under the voluntary foreign credit restraint effort 
in effect and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
tie s contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
'(Signed) EHz&i& L SxiM^tSr 
* v ' . ' Y 'i I ' rr; ." 
><*"•• 
•/M 
m 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
J 

• 4940 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
12/22/67 2 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OrriCIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
December 22, 1967 
Douglas W. Hawes, Esq., 
LeBoeuf, Lamb & Leiby, 
°ne Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Dear Mr. Hawes: 
Your letter of December 1, 1967, and its enclosure asked 
whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933, as amended (12 U.S.C. 
78) , prohibits a partner of New York Securities Company, New York, 
New York, from serving on the board of directors of Citizens Financial 
Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio. Citizens Financial Corporation is a 
holding company, one of whose eight operating subsidiaries is The 
Newark Trust Company, Newark, Ohio, a member bank of the Federal 
Reserve System. 
Section 32 provides in relevant part that 
. .no partner 
employee of any partnership . . . primarily engaged in the issue, 
flotation, underwriting, public sale, or distribution, at wholesale 
°r retail, or through syndicate participation, of stocks, bonds, or 
other similar securities, shall serve [at] the same time as an officer 
^rector, or employee of any member bank. . . . " 
Your letter advised that New York Securities Company is 
actively engaged in the business of underwriting securities issues; 
it is understood that the New York Federal Reserve Bank has con-
irmed through you that the company clearly is "primarily engaged" 
ln section 32 business. 
The Newark Trust Company, virtually all of whose shares 
^ere acquired by Citizens Financial Corporation at the end of June 
is its only commercial-bank subsidiary. Briefly, of the other 
Se^en subsidiaries, one is a savings and loan association, two are 

Douglas W. Hawes, Esq. 
- 2 -
4941 
companies engaged in mortgage lending, and the selling and servicing of 
mortgage loans, one is an escrow company, another is an instalment loan 
company, another is an electronic data processing service company, while 
Che remaining operating subsidiary renders management advisory services. 
h, u 
„ H 
1 8 u n d e r s t o o d farther that three of 13 present members of 
che board of directors of The Newark Trust Company are officers and 
ttirectors of Citizens Financial Corporation, and that one of these was 
elected chairman of the board of the member bank. 
Section 32 refers to member banks and makes no mention of a 
company that may own a member bank, and the parent corporation in this 
case does not appear to be established or designed as a sham to evade 
cne statute. 
From the information before the Board, it does not appear 
chat section 32 would prohibit, in the case presented by you, a partner 
t New York Securities Company from serving on the board of directors 
0 1 Citizens Financial Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

. 494 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 3 
12/22/67 
January 5, 1968 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Edwin I. Hatch, 
Chairman, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Hatch: 
Following up on the recent exchange of telegrams 
between Chairman Martin and Mr. Tarver, as supplemented by 
related telephone conversations, this is to confirm for the 
records of your Bank that the Board has approved the payment 
of salaries to President Patterson and First Vice President 
Kimbrel at the annual rates of $35,000 and $27,500, respec-
tively, for the period January 1 through January 31, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

B O A R D 
• F Q G O V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 4 
12/22/67 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
C L R F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
DEC 2 2 196? 
Mr. Harry W. Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
•.iUv 
' jut 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of December 18, 1967, the Director of the 
Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
designation of each of the employees listed as a special 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland. 
l\t WLX;-: 
••• i •..• ' 
Appropriate notations have been made of the 
names to be deleted from the list of special assistant 
examiners. 
'4ut ? ••• • 
A 
'f$ - H 
•his 
i ' i ! 
Very truly yours, 
{Srjcsd) Sizab8ti» L SarmlcftaeT 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
12/22/67 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 22, 1967 
Mr. Frederic M. Peirce, 
Chairman of the Board 
and Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 63166 
Dear Mr. Peirce: 
Acting under delegated authority, the Director of the 
Division of Personnel Administration has approved the request con-
tained in your letter of December 14, 1967, for the appointments of 
Messrs. Alfred R. Janz and Joseph N. Baumann as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agents. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Messrs. 
Janz and Baumann will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors for the proper performance of their 
duties, except that, during the absence or disability of the Federal 
Reserve Agent or a vacancy in that office, their responsibilities will 
be to the Assistant Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of their duties as 
Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents, Messrs. Janz and Baumann 
m ay, with the approval of the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, 
Perform such work for the Bank as will not be inconsistent with their 
duties as Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agents. 
It will be appreciated if Messrs. Janz and Baumann are fully 
informed of the importance of their responsibilities as members of the 
staff of the Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of in-
dependence from the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these 
responsibilities. 
Please have Messrs. Janz and Baumann execute the usual Oath 
o f Office which should be forwarded to the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
4 
12/22/67 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
: : i : 1GB7 
AIR MAIL 
Mr. Dolph Simons, 
Federal Reserve Agent, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 
64106 
Dear Mr. Simons: 
Acting under delegated authority the Director of the Division 
of Personnel Administration has approved the request contained in Mr. 
Cahill's letter of December 8, 1967, for the appointment of Mr. Barry K. 
Robinson as an Alternate Assistant Federal Reserve Agent at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City. 
This approval is given with the understanding that Mr. Robinson 
will be solely responsible to the Federal Reserve Agent and the Board of 
Governors for the proper performance of his duties, except that, during 
the absence or disability of the Federal Reserve Agent or a vacancy in 
that office, his responsibility will be to the Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent and the Board of Governors. 
When not engaged in the performance of his duties as Alternate 
Assistant Federal Reserve Agent, Mr. Robinson may, with the approval of 
the Federal Reserve Agent and the President, perform such work for the 
Bank as will not be inconsistent with his duties as Alternate Assistant 
Federal Reserve Agent. 
It will be appreciated if Mr. Robinson is fully informed of 
the importance of his responsibilities as a member of the staff of the 
Federal Reserve Agent and the need for maintenance of independence from 
the operations of the Bank in the discharge of these responsibilities. 
Please have Mr. Robinson execute the usual Oath of Office which 
should be forwarded to the Board of Governors along with notification of 
the effective date of his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
M - n e d ) Kenneth A- Konyoa 
Kenneth A. Kenyon. 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 7 
12/22/67 
FEDERAL 
RESERVE 
BANK OF 
BOSTON 
3 0 P E A R L 
S T R E E T 
Board of Directors 
Bristol County Trust 
Taunton, Haasschuaett 
December 71, 1967 
Gentl< 
On behalf o tha Boa 
Beserve Systam, sctin ; under d (legated authority, this Bank 
has apprereed tha aatabllahaant 
Taunton, Hassachusettt, of a b 
rd of Governors of the Federal 
by Bristol County Trust Coapany, 
ranch!at the corner of Warner 
Boulevard and Wlnthro} Street, Taunton, Massachusetts, provi-
ded tha branch la established within one yaar fro® the date 
of this letter. 
In approving t 
given to the sound fl 
nanageaant of your 
that the proposed b 
of the coanunlty and 
tend to create an 
i consideration has been 
lal condition and the satisfactory 
Moreover\ It has been detarained 
h will serve] the convenience and needs 
stabllshnent if tha branch will not 
lrabla cowtltlve situation. 
* 
Sincerely yours, 
sident 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF 
R I C H M O N D 
RICHMOND. VIRGINIA 
23213 
December 21, 1967. 
Item No. 
4 
12/22/67 
COPY 
iwurt of OlrMtiri, 
VaahovU Bank aad Truat Cwiyiy, 
Vlaatoa-Salaa, Borth Carollaa 27101. 
Q M I U M I I 
fho Voda ral K I M H I laak #1 ftlahaond, an M M If 
•f aad uador Authority 4«Ue»t«4 ky tho Board if OovtnMri if 
tho 7«4«ral Uftrvt IriUt, iui ayprovad th« ifpllullit •! 
Wachovia ltak aad Truat Caayaay, Mlnataa-talaa, Borth Carolina, 
u oatabllah « branch a w r IIM U i m t c t i M of Collaoua Brlva 
Borth Chorry Stroot, Vlaatoa-faloa, forayth Couaty, Borth 
Corolla*. So roach lag thU doclaloa, coaaldaratloa hoa boon 
«lvoa to tha kok'a capltalloatlaa aad •MT|MT ir. tho 
coavaaloaao aad nooda of tho t a w i i t y , tho caapotltlvo 
•ltuatloa la tho aroa aad tho futuro praapocta of tho branch. 
Authority granted horohy aaylroa oaa yoar froa tho 
^ t i of thla lot tor. Vloaao advlao aa than a daflalto data 
'•r Ofoala« hoa boon dotoialuod and tho a*act tltlo uador 
^leh tha branch will operato. 
Voara vary truly, 
/s/ Edw. A. Wayne 
Bdv. A. Mayan, 
Froa idea t. 

Item No. 4 
12/22/67 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
S*. 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
S • 
> V 
A D D R E S S 
• F F I C I A L C • R R E S P • N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 26, 1967: 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
After a careful consideration of all facts relating 
to the appointment of Mr. Dean A. Gurney, Jr., the Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, declines to approve 
his appointment as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City. The reasons for this decision 
are the stated inability of Mr. Gurney to supervise effectively, 
admitted reservations on the part of the staff of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City about the man's ability to progress, 
and concern that appointment of a man who did an unsatisfactory 
job in a bank would reflect unfavorably on bank examinations. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 10 
12/22/67 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 28, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Colonial Bank and Trust Company, 
Waterbury, Connecticut. 
Gentl emen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment of a branch by The Colonial Bank 
and Trust Company, Waterbury, Connecticut, at the intersection 
Union Street and South Main Street, Waterbury, Connecticut, 
Provided the branch is established within 18 months from the 
date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that 
your bank's management is satisfactory, that the proposed 
branch would serve the convenience and needs of the community, 
and that establishment of the branch would not tend to create 
an undesirable competitive situation. It is understood that 
y°u are giving close attention to your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

SC '40A.2-4 
/ 6 7 
vi i 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F N E W 
Y O R K 
Item No. 11 
12/22/67 
N E W YORK. N E W YORK 
1 0 0 4 5 
UtC Z 2 1957 
Hr 
Kelson 
L . 
* ' > R T H , President 
City Trust Co&pany 
ridgeport, Connect la at 
0o60<? 
Dear Mr. Jlorth : 
Thic refers to your bank's application dated 
oveaber xf, l ; W , requesting permission to eeteblish a bri&ncn 
within the planned Lake Miila Shopping Center at 2272 H a c k 
Hack Turnpike, Town of Fairfield, Fairfield County, Connecticut 
•r reviewing the application in the light of the factors 
aerated in Section 26$.2(f)(1) of the Hulaa Regarding 
egation of Authority iasued by the Board of Governors of tne 
oral Reservs Gyatea, we have concluded tnat your application 
^ oald be appr »ved. Accordingly, on behalf of tne Board of 
Oovernora, the Federal fteaerve Bank of Mew York, acting under 
^olegated authority, approves the establishment by your bank 
f a branch at the above-mentioned location, provided the 
ranch ia established within one year alter tne date of this 
letter. 
We shall appreciate your advising aa when the branch 
is actually established and opened for business, giving the 
actire date of the opening, the nn*e, if any, by which it 
11 be known, and the official postal nddraaa, including 
the y.ip code number. 
Planco acknowledge receipt by signing and returning 
ua the enclosed copy of this letter. 
Yery truly yours, 
Fred V. Piderit, Jr. 
Vice president 
