MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 11, 1969 

25QG 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 11, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bernard of the Office of the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
(Note: The Board had met earlier, at 9:45 a.m., with staff 
attendance limited, and at that time had received a report on 
market developments in the wake of devaluation of the French franc. 
Thus far, at least, the reaction appeared to have been relatively 
mild.) 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of the kind 
customarily offered in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. The reports were based to some extent on material prepared 
for tomorrow's Committee meeting, and copies of the relevant documents 
have been placed in the files of the Committee. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Mr. Partee then withdrew, as did Messrs. Bernard and Morgan, and 
the following entered: 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

j C D U 4 
8/11/69 
-2-
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Mertz and Mrs. Duerson of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ducy of the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton and Kline of the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Marshall & Ilsley. After discussion, the Board approved unani-
mously applications of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, 
Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Adams County State Bank, Adams, Wisconsin, 
The Portage County Bank, Almond, Wisconsin, The People's Bank, Coloma, 
Wisconsin, and Westfield State Bank, Westfield, Wisconsin, with the under-
standing that orders and a statement reflecting the action taken would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
