* 609 
Minutes for 
September 26, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

fry t rr ri 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 26, 1968. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Egertson and Lyon, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Mrs. Heller and Messrs. Doyle and Lynch of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Donovan, and Goodfellow of the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation 
Approved letters. The following letters were approved unani-
mously after consideration of background information that had been 
made available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
item numbers indicated. 

9/26/68 
-2-
Letters to First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
granting consent to purchase shares of (1) 
Investcred S.A. Financiamento e Investimento, 
Sao Paulo, Brazil, and (2) Private Investment 
Company for Asia, to be incorporated in the 
Republic of Panama, with operating headquar-
ters in Japan. 
Letter to Bankers International Corporation, 
New York, New York, granting consent to pur-
chase shares of Unitech Limited, Reading, 
England. 
Letter to Morgan Guaranty International Banking 
Corporation, New York, New York, granting con-
sent to purchase shares of Medium Term Discounts 
Limited, to be organized in London, England. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
interposing no objection to a proposed program 
to improve hospitalization and medical insurance 
benefits and approving payment by the Bank of 
two-thirds of the premium costs for officers and 
employees. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Comptroller 
of the Currency on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
consolidation of First National Bank and Trust Company of Waynesburg, 
Waynesburg, Pennsylvania, and The First National Bank in Washington, 
Washington, Pennsylvania, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Comptroller. The conclusion read as follows: 
There is a small amount of competition existing between 
First National Bank and Trust Company of Waynesburg and The 
First National Bank in Washington, and there is potential for 
increased competition between them. Both banks are now in 
direct competition with branches of substantially larger banks, 
and upon consummation of this proposal, the resulting bank 
might be a more effective competitor. The overall competitive 
effect would be slightly adverse. 
Item No 
1-2 

O u 
9/26/68 
-3-
Application of American Bankshares Corporation. There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated September 18, 1968, from the Divi-
sion of Supervision and Regulation, with other pertinent papers, recom-
mending approval of the application of American Bankshares Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to become a bank holding company through acquisi-
tion of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Hampton State Bank, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
(The company presently owned a majority of the 
shares of American City Bank & Trust Company, Milwaukee.) 
After summary comments by Mr. Lyon the application was approved 
unanimously, with the understanding that an order and statement reflect 
ing this decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration. It 
was understood also that the letter notifying the applicant of the 
Board's approval would indicate that the Board would not view with 
favor any proposal by the applicant for further expansion while it was 
carrying a heavy indebtedness. 
Court orders pertaining to foreign branches (Item No. 6). 
Mr. Henry Harfield of Shearman & Sterling, counsel to First National 
City Bank of New York, had left with representatives of the Board a 
memorandum relating to his concern that orders of Federal courts 
requiring certain actions by foreign branches of U.S. banks as steps 
in law enforcement proceedings by Federal departments or agencies 
against parties other than the banks might require such branches to 
violate laws of their host countries or adversely affect the banks' 

9/26/68 
-4-
competitive positions abroad. Mr. Harfield proposed legislation that 
would prohibit the issuance of such orders except upon certification 
by an appropriate agency, for example, the Board or the Department of 
State, to the effect that compliance with the order would not involve 
a violation of the laws or a contravention of the established usages 
of the particular country where the order was to take effect. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum from the Legal 
Division dated September 20, 1968, setting forth background information 
and attaching a draft of reply to Mr. Harfield. The memorandum com-
mented on two court decisions, both of which involved foreign branches 
of First National City Bank, that had prompted Mr. Harfield's proposal. 
It was brought out that the State Department had requested that a work-
ing group composed of representatives of several Government agencies 
analyze the problem with a view to considering the desirability of 
establishing guidelines and procedures. Governor Robertson had requested 
Mr. Shay to represent the Board, and the State Department had indicated 
informally that there would be no objection to referring to the working 
group's establishment in the reply to be made to Mr. Harfield. 
At today's meeting Mr. Shay commented on the tenor of discus-
sion at the first meeting of the working group. It had been clear that 
the problem was a complex one and was important to several Government 
agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Depart-
ment of Justice, and the Bureau of Internal Revenue. It was not just 

r \ f— «* » 
9/26/68 
-5-
a question of the relationships between foreign bank branches and 
their customers, but also of relationships with subsidiaries of U.S. 
business corporations and the interest of Government agencies in the 
activities of such subsidiaries abroad. The State Department was to 
prepare a memorandum highlighting the discussion and laying out areas 
of further inquiry. Meanwhile, the agencies represented at the meet-
ing were to gather certain additional information. 
Governor Mitchell noted that the letter carried the tone that 
it would be preferable to await the results of study by the working 
group rather than to comment more specifically on Mr. Harfield's pro-
posal. It seemed to him that that approach was appropriate. Other 
Board members agreed. 
The letter was then approved unanimously; a copy is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 1 
• F T H E 
9/26/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 26, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of August 14, 1968, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold 800,000 
shares, or 40 per cent, of the capital shares of Investcred 
S.A. Financiamento e Investimento, Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a 
cost of approximately $250,000 provided the shares are ac-
quired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of your Corpora-
tion, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities 
contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
I t e m No- 
2 
O F T H E 
9 / 2 6 / 6 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 26, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of August 7, 1968, the Board of Governors grants 
consent for your Corporation to purchase and hold approxi-
mately 80 shares, or 1 per cent, of the capital stock of 
Private Investment Company for Asia, Panama, at a cost of 
approximately $400,000, provided at least $200,000 of the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the under-
standing that the investment now being approved will be 
made within the guidelines established under the foreign 
credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, First National City Bank, International 
Banking Corporation, and First National City Bank (Inter-
national), and that due consideration is being given to 
the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BDARD OF G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
9/26/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 26, 1968. 
Bankers International Corporation, 
280 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of July 22, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation, ("BIC"), to purchase and hold 10 per cent of the cap-
ital stock of Unitech Limited, Reading, England, at a cost of 
approximately $432,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation and Bankers Trust Company and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 4 
9/26/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 26, 1968 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Banking Corporation, 
23 Wall Street, 
New York, New York. 10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of March 22 and August 6, 
1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation 
to purchase and hold up to 18 per cent of the capital stock of 
Medium Term Discounts Limited to be organized in London, England, 
at a cost of approximately $1,080,000, provided that approximately 
40 per cent of the investment is made within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of 
New York, and Morgan Guaranty International Finance Corporation, 
and that due consideration is being given to the priorities con-
tained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

3568 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• F T H E 
Item No. 3 
9/26/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C d R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T • 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 26, 1968 
Mr. Aubrey N. Heflin, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
Dear Mr. Heflin: 
In reference to Mr. Sanders' letter of September 16, 
regarding increased hospitalization and medical insurance premiums 
and improved benefits, effective October 1, 1968, the Board has 
considered these changes and understands they are necessary in 
order to put the Head Office benefits more in line with community 
practices in the Richmond area. 
Therefore, the Board of Governors interposes no objection 
to the proposed program and approves the Bank's payment of two-thirds 
of the premium costs for officers and employees. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

FEDERAL R E S E R V E 
5Y5TEM 
BOARD OF DOVERN•R5 
• F TH E 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 2Q5SI 
OFFICE QF THE VICE CHAIRMAN 
Item No. 6 
9/26/68 
September 26, 1968 
Henry Harfield, Esq., 
Shearman & Sterling, 
20 Exchange Place, 
New York, New York. 10005 
Dear Mr. Harfield: 
This is in reference to the proposed legislation outlined in 
your memorandum entitled "Process of United States Courts Requiring 
Action by Foreign Branches of United States Banks", a copy of which 
you left with me during a recent visit to Washington. 
Your proposal is that section 25(b) of the Federal Reserve 
Act be amended to prohibit the issuance by United States courts of 
orders concerning foreign branches of insured banks, except upon certi-
fication by an appropriate Federal agency, such as the Board of Governors 
or the Department of State, that compliance with the order would not 
involve a violation of the laws or a contravention of the established 
usage of the particular country where the order is to take effect. The 
proposed amendment would be limited to court orders requiring action or 
inaction of such branches relative to Federal investigative or law en-
forcement proceedings against third parties. Examples mentioned in the 
memorandum included situations of the kind that gave rise to the so-
called Omar decision of the United States Supreme Court in 1965 and to 
the decision in June by the United States Court of Appeals involving 
the Frankfurt, Germany, branch of your Bank. 
Relative to my thoughts concerning the proposal, may I say, 
first, that there are several reasons why the certification should be 
made by the State Department rather than the Board. Section 25(b), as 
you know, already places responsibility on the State Department for 
certifications in certain types of cases involving possible foreign 
claims against insured banks. Furthermore, the certification function 
under your proposal would seem to be one for which the State Department, 
because of its obvious interests and its various officers abroad, would 
be better equipped than the Board. Some might regard the Department as 
a preferable choice also because it is neither a bank supervisor nor a 
law enforcement agency of the kind you seem to have in mind. 
Recognizing, of course, that you were describing the proposal 
in only a general way, the certification requisite to issuance of an 
order, as already noted, would seem to necessitate an administrative 

O* J 
Henry Harfield, Esq. 
-2-
determination of the law or the established usage of the particular 
foreign country. Thus, in contrast to the bills (H.R. 6849 and S. 1907), 
introduced following the Omar decision in 1965, your proposal would re-
quire of the designated department or agency, rather than a court, a 
considerably broader range of inquiry. Considering the public interest 
in law enforcement, to prohibit issuance of a court order that would 
require action or inaction contrary to established local usage might be 
regarded as less justifiable than if the prohibition were conditioned 
only on the illegality of compliance with the order. It is possible, 
al so, that a general legislative rule along the lines of your proposal 
might be regarded as inappropriate relative to proceedings to enforce 
the law on certain subjects. 
This is not to say, however, that we are unsympathetic with 
your desire to arrive at a better approach to a troublesome and difficult 
matter if it can be done. Your memorandum outlines very well considera-
tions that support the case for some remedial measure, although, as you 
recognize, the competing interests to be weighed in matters of this kind 
are many. 
As you may know, steps have been taken for consideration of 
the matter prompting your proposal by an informal working group of 
representatives of various interested departments and agencies of the 
Government, including the Board. Tentatively, at least, it is understood 
that the group will endeavor to analyze the problems and consider the 
desirability of establishing administrative guidelines and procedures 
that might better serve the various affected interests, including the 
banks, the enforcement agencies, and our foreign relations. 
In the circumstances, it would seem preferable at this time 
to await the results of the attention to be given the matter by the 
working group rather than to comment more specifically on your proposal. 
The matter has been discussed with other members of the Board and they 
were of the same view. 
Sincerely, 
/ 
I. 
