FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
Marrh 77^ 1Q70 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes 

1027 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, March 27, 1970. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
..Mr. Daane 
Mr. Ma isel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
— 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Ghiardi, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
\J 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mrs. Byrn of the Office of the Secretary 
Staff presented the usual weekly money market review, prefaced 
by a report on current nonfinancial economic data. Copies of the indi-
vidual briefings have been placed in the Board's files along with copies 
of the statistical charts and tables distributed for purposes of the 
review. 
Discussion related to the staff review included reference to the 
reserve-free base made available last summer when a marginal reserve 
requirement was established on certain foreign borrowings, primarily 
1/ Other officers and staff of the research divisions also attended. 

1028 
3/27/70 
-2-
of Eurodollars, by member banks. Question was raised by Chairman Burns 
whether the action providing the reserve-free base should not be reviewed 
by the Board, and it was indicated that a memorandum from the staff was 
\ 
* 
in process which would provide a basis for further consideration of the 
question. 
There was also discussion of the value of projections of the 
monetary aggregates for the formulation of monetary policy during which 
Governor Maisel said that he had on his desk a record of the accuracy 
of past projections that he would be glad to make available to the 
Chairman or others if desired. Comments followed on the uses of such 
projections, particularly those for longer than a month ahead, as a 
defense in detecting incipient excessive tendencies and making correc-
tions. This led to further comments during which Governors Daane and 
Brimmer expressed some apprehension that current expectations in the 
financial community concerning the trend of monetary and fiscal policy 
might stimulate undue credit expansion. There were staff reports, on 
the other hand, that business sentiment, usually less volatile than 
that in financial circles, appeared to be rather pessimistic. Mr. Gramley 
said that he had a paper in process discussing the behavior of the money 
supply and bank credit around cyclical turning points, and Governor 
Maisel expressed the hope that there would be an opportunity to focus 
on the relationship of the money supply to time deposits and the bank 
credit proxy at a meeting with the staff prior to the Open Market Commit-
tee meeting on Tuesday, April 7. 

1029 
3/27/70 
-3-
Members of the staff who had attended for the money market 
review then withdrew and Messrs. Hexter, General Counsel, Doyle, Senior 
Attorney, Legal Division, and Poundstone, Review Examiner, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation, entered. 
BIS stock. Memoranda from the Division of Supervision and Regu-
lation and the Legal Division dated March 23 and 26, 1970, discussed 
the request of Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company, New York, New York, 
for permission to subscribe to additional shares of the Bank for Inter-
national Settlements, Basle, Switzerland. 
(In June 1969 the authorized 
capital of the BIS was trebled. One-quarter of the newly authorized 
shares would be paid by the issuer, and the stockholders would be 
obligated to pay in the balance on call. The obligation to pay in gold 
francs raised a question under the Federal statute that prohibits entering 
into "any obligation which purports to give the obligee a right to require 
payment in gold....or in an amount in money of the United States measured 
thereby". The Legal Division had studied the matter from that standpoint 
and had drafted a reply to the U.S. bank.) Manufacturers Hanover had 
obtained the shares in the early 1930s as one of a syndicate of banks that 
took over the U.S. share in the BIS after it has been decided that the 
Federal Reserve would not participate in the ownership of the BIS. The 
New York Reserve Bank understood that Manufacturers Hanover was the only 
bank of that syndicate that still maintained its ownership of shares in 
the BIS. 

1.030 
3/2/70 
-4-
Governor Brimmer noted that he had considered it advisable for 
this matter to be brought before the Board rather than to deal with it 
under delegated authority. 
He and other members expressed some doubt 
during the ensuing discussion whether the New York Bank was correct in 
its statement that no U.S. banks other than Manufacturers Hanover contin-
ued to hold stock of the BIS, although it was indicated by Mr. Doyle that 
First National City Bank of New York might be involved in the voting 
process only, without ownership of stock. 
Aside from the technical point about the obligation to make pay-
ment in gold francs which Governor Brimmer felt was dealt with satisfac-
torily in the draft of reply to Manufacturers, the immediate request in 
itself seemed to be of relatively little concern. 
However, it touched 
upon policy issues relating to matters such as the appropriateness of 
the continued holding of BIS stock by U.S. commercial banks and, more 
fundamentally, the role of the Federal Reserve in relation to the BIS. 
Governor Daane recalled that some time ago he had asked the Division of 
International Finance for a memorandum on these questions, and such a 
memorandum was reported to be in process. 
The letter to Manufacturers Hanover (a copy of which is attached 
as Item No. 1) was then approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that the broader issues to which reference had been made would be given 
further consideration by the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
