• J 
MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 9, 1968 
t:/ 
r. ... 
hi; 
4 
:• . . i: . 
i 
Sf 

1308 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, April 9, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Mr. 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart, Mrs. Heller, and Mr. Plotkin of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Cleaver, Greenspun, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Burton, Lyon, and Maguire of the 
Division of Examinations 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
Holland, Secretary 
Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Hexter, General Counsel 
Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Keir, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
merger of Oran Savings Bank, Oran, Iowa, into The First National Bank of 

3 
4/9/68 
-8-
Oelwein, Oelwein, Iowa, was approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of the Oran 
Savings Bank, a noninsured institution, and The First 
National Bank of Oelwein would eliminate a small 
amount of competition, and the overall effect would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Citizens State 
Bank of New England, New England, North Dakota, with American State 
Bank of Dickinson, Dickinson, North Dakota, was approved unanimously 
for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
In view of the close relationship which has existed 
between American State Bank of Dickinson and Citizens State 
Bank of New England since the organization of the Dickinson 
Bank in 1964, there is little effective competition between 
them. However, consummation of the transaction would 
eliminate some potential for competition in the event the 
close relationship should be terminated. Overall, the effect 
of the proposal on competition would be slightly adverse. 
Barnett National Securities Corporation. A memorandum from 
the Division of Examinations dated March 12, 1968, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Barnett 
National Securities Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares 
of Regency Square Barnett Bank, Jacksonville, a proposed new bank. 
The application was approved unanimously, with the understanding 
that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be drafted 
for the Board's consideration. 

1310 
4/9/68 
-8-
Moody Foundation. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
counsel for The Moody Foundation, Galveston, Texas, indicating that 
termination of the Foundation's bank holding company status had now 
been effected. A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Bank accounting for stock dividends. There had been distributed 
a staff memorandum dated April 8, 1968, relating to a proposed new rule 
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that had been published by 
the Securities and Exchange Commission for comment. The rule would 
require any corporation with publicly traded stock that issued a stock 
dividend to transfer an amount equal to the fair market value of the 
shares so issued from its earned surplus to its permanent capitalization 
represented by its capital stock and surplus accounts. The rule would 
be in conflict with traditional banking practices. It was not in direct 
conflict with any rule or regulation of the Board; however, for reasons 
stated in a suggested draft of letter, the Board might wish to request 
that the Securities and Exchange Commission exempt banks from the rule. 
Following a comment that both the Office of the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation had inquired 
as to the Board's position with respect to the proposed rule, members 
of the staff responded to a number of questions from members of the Board. 
The principal focus of the discussion was on the effect that the rule 
would have on banking practices, and several interpretations were offered. 
It was then suggested that the staff determine from the Securities and 
Exchange Commission its interpretation of the proposal as applied to banks. 

1311 
4/9/68 
-8-
On the basis of analysis of that interpretation a better judgment 
could be made as to whether there would be justification for taking 
a position in opposition to the rule or in requesting that banks be 
exempted. 
Unanimous approval was then given to the transmittal of a 
letter to the Securities and Exchange Commission that would be neutral 
in tone but open the way for discussion between the staffs of the Board 
and the Commission as to the effect of the proposed rule. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Market makers in convertible bonds. On February 1, 1968, the 
Board had adopted a new margin requirement of 50 per cent applicable 
to loans made after that date by banks for the purpose of purchasing 
or carrying securities convertible into registered stock. Under this 
provision a fully margined status of 50 per cent would be required by 
April 10, 1968, on loans made by banks between October 20, 1967, and 
February 1, 1968. Loans made before October 20, 1967, would not be 
affected unless there were subsequent subsitutions of collateral or 
conversions into stock. 
Also on February 1, 1968, there was published for comment a 
proposed amendment to Regulation U, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Registered Stocks, that would provide an exemption 
from margin requirements for market makers in convertible securities. 
Firms interested in demonstrating their eligibility for such an exemption 

4/9/68 
-5-
were requested to file by March 11 at least three weekly reports 
detailing their market-making operations. None of the firms that 
had initially shown interest in seeking an exemption had by that date 
filed all of the required reports, with the result that there was 
insufficient evidence on which to base a decision, and the Board had 
deferred action on the proposed amendment. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated April 8, 
1968, from the Division of Research and Statistics indicating that 
eight firms had since filed at least three weekly reports. However, 
analysis of the information had not yet been completed. In the 
absence of a final staff recommendation on the market-maker exemption, 
question was raised whether the Board should take interim action to 
defer the April 10 effective date. 
In commenting on the matter, Mr. Keir noted that the final 
bring-up of loan margins for the eight market makers would involve 
some risk of added pressures on the market. In view of that possibility, 
the Board might wish to defer tomorrow's bring-up provision as it 
applied to the eight firms until a final decision was made on the 
proposed market-maker exemption. 
Mr. Keir said the staff felt that it would be preferable to 
treat all dealers on the same basis. Without a fully worked-out set 
of standards to define the basis for a market-maker exemption, even 
a temporary exemption might be consided arbitrary. In addition, it was 

1313 
4/9/68 
-8-
possbile that deferral of the April 10 deadline would be construed as 
an indication that the Board would soon act favorably on the market-
maker exemption, while preliminary analysis suggested that such might 
not be the case. The technical problems involved in establishing a 
workable set of performance standards that would permit effective 
surveillance of a market-maker exemption were proving more difficult 
than anticipated. 
Finally, Mr. Keir said, there was reason to believe that market 
pressures created by the April 10 bring-up date might not be very severe. 
Despite the approaching deadline, there had been only mild expressions 
of concern. If the deadline was taken in stride without much impact on 
the market, that would represent significant evidence that would be 
helpful to the Board in reaching its final decision on the need for 
the proposed market-maker exemption. 
Comments by members of the Board disclosed that all except 
Governor Robertson were favorably disposed toward deferring the date. 
Basic to this view was a conviction that any decision on whether to 
grant an exemption to market-makers must rest upon a thorough analysis 
of the problem. Members of the staff indicated that another 30 days 
should prove sufficient time in which to reach a judgment. 
With Governor Robertson dissenting, the Board then approved 
deferral from April 10 to May 10, 1968, of the date by which bank 
loans on convertible debt securities made before March 11, 1968, to 
those firms that had filed the required reports must be brought into 

1314 
4/9/68 
-8-
50 per cent margin status. Attached under Item No. 3 are copies of 
the notice published in the Federal Register and the pertinent press 
release. 
Extension of time under Regulation G. There had been distributed 
a memorandum dated April 8, 1968, from the Securities Credit Regulation 
Unit recommending, for reasons stated, that the Board grant an extension 
from April 30 to July 30, 1968, of the time within which persons registered 
under Regulation G, Credit by Persons other than Banks, Brokers, or 
Dealers for the Purpose of Purchasing of Carrying Registered Equity 
Securities, must file an initial report on Form G-4 with the appropriate 
Reserve Bank. Attached to the memorandum was a proposed letter for use 
in notifying registrants. 
Unanimous approval was given to the extension of time. A copy 
of the notice published in the Federal Register is attached under 
Item No. 4, along with a copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board a 
memorandum recommending acceptance of the 
resignation of Douglas Williams, Laborer 
in the Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business April 30, 
1968. 
On April 9, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
as indicated: 

1315 
4/9/68 
-8-
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examination 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
5 
approving the appointment of Paul R. Reynolds 
as assistant examiner. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco -
Letter to Seattle Trust and Savings Bank, 
6 
Seattle, Washington, approving the estab-
lishment of a limited service office (drive-
in facility) in the Crossroads Shopping 
Center, Bellevue, King County, Washington. 

ct V. 
M: 
1316 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R B 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
4/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P O N D E Kl C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 9, 1968 
Louis J. Dibrell, Esq., 
Dibrell, Dibrell & Greer, 
American National Building, 
Galveston, Texas. 77550 
Re: The Moody Foundation 
, , I . 
. 
! 
. . . 
; , 
. . • 
Dear Mr. Dibrell: 
This refers to your letter of March 26, 1968, in which you 
request a determination by the Board that the status of The Moody 
Foundation as a bank holding company has been terminated. The materials 
enclosed with your letter evidence a sale of W. L. Moody & Company, 
Bankers (Unincorporated) to Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr. and a termination 
of the Foundation's interest in said bank. 
On the record before the Board, the Foundation's holding 
company status depended upon its interest in (1) The Moody National 
Bank of Galveston, and (2) W. L. Moody & Company, Bankers. Termina-
tion of such bank holding company status is effected by sale of the 
Foundation's interest in W. L. Moody & Company to Mr. Shearn Moody, 
Jr. coupled with the Board's determination, under section 2(g)(3) 
of the Bank Holding Company Act, to the effect that the Foundation 
is not in fact capable of controlling Mr. Shearn Moody, Jr. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1317 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
a F T H E 
FEDERAL R E 5 E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 2 
4/9/68 
O F F I C E O F T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
April 9, 1968 
The Honorable Manuel F. Cohen, Chairman, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
500 North Capitol Street, N. W., 
Washington, D. C. 20549 
Dear Mr. Cohen: 
This is in response to a Notice of Proposal to adopt 
Rule 10b-12 contained in Securities Exchange Act Release No. 8268, 
which invited comments by interested persons. 
The proposed rule, if adopted, would, in effect, require 
any corporation with publicly-traded stock that issues a stock divi-
dend (as therein defined) to transfer an amount equal to the fair 
value of the shares so issued from its earned surplus to its "perma-
nent capitalization . . . represented by its capital stock and capital 
surplus accounts." 
Although nothing therein is in direct conflict with any rule 
or regulation of the Board, the Board believes that the Commission 
should be aware of the effect of the proposed rule on long-standing 
bank practices which the Board, other State and Federal supervisory 
bank agencies, and industry associations have acquiesced in or endorsed 
Unlike most other corporations, banks generally account 
for stock dividends by transferring from the surplus and/or undivided 
profits account to the capital stock account an amount equal to the 
par value of the additional shares, rather than their fair market value 
The reason for this is stated as follows in a recent publication of the 
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, "Audits of Banks" 
(page 39): 
"In evaluating the propriety of the practice commonly 
followed by banks in relation to generally accepted account-
ing principles, certain distinctions between banks and 

The Honorable Manuel F. Cohen -2-
1318 
industrial companies in general must be recognized. As 
mentioned previously, the surplus account of a bank usually 
includes retained earnings, which have been transferred to 
surplus either to comply with statutory regulations or to 
benefit the bank by increasing its lending limits, etc. 
Nevertheless, regardless of its source, the entire balance 
of the surplus account, together with the capital stock 
accounts, constitutes the permanent capitalization of the 
bank. 
"Because of the above-described practice of trans-
ferring accumulated earnings to the surplus account, a 
bank's undivided profits account is not the equivalent of 
the retained earnings (earned surplus) account of companies 
in other industries, nor is its surplus account the equiva-
lent of other companies' capital surplus. Accordingly, it 
would be inappropriate to require that undivided profits be 
charged with the fair value of a stock dividend in view of 
the prior transfers which most banks have regularly made 
from undivided profits to surplus. Furthermore, such a 
requirement could effectively prevent many profitable, well-
managed banks from ever declaring stock dividends. Sound 
bank management dictates that accumulated earnings in excess 
of anticipated cash dividend requirements be transferred to 
surplus as rapidly as possible in order to obtain the bene-
fits of a larger permanent capitalization. Adherence to 
this policy could result in an insufficient balance ever 
remaining in undivided profits to absorb the fair value of 
a stock dividend." 
In addition, the Bank Administration Institute (formerly 
known as NABAC) has stated: 
"Stock dividends should be accounted for by trans-
ferring the par value of the dividend shares from Undivided 
Profits or Surplus balance sheet captions to the Capital 
account. Present promulgations of the American Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants and the New York Stock Exchange 
advocate that stock dividends be charged at their fair market 
value and that the excess of market value over par be credited 
to surplus. 
"Due to the unusual nature of a bank's capital structure, 
and present bank custom, banks should continue the practice of 
charging stock dividends at their par value." (NABAC Accounting 
Bulletin No. 2, December 1965.) 

1319 
The Honorable Manuel F. Cohen 
-3-
The Board recognizes that the possibility of manipulative 
abuse at which the proposed rule is aimed may also be present in the 
case of banks. However, since banks are closely supervised institu-
tions, it is believed that the likelihood of such abuse by banks is 
not significant. 
It should also be noted that certain terms used in the 
proposed rule, such as "earned surplus" and "capital surplus" are 
not generally used in bank accounting and may cause some confusion 
when applied to banks. 
In view of the above, the Board believes that our respective 
staffs should further discuss the effect of the proposed rule on bank 
accounting. 
Sincerely, 

1320 
Item No. 3 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
4/9/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221 - LOANS BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING 
OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Deferred Effective Date for Margin Requirements 
as to Certain Loans 
By document appearing in the Federal Register of February 8, 
1968 (33 F.R. 2702), the Board of Governors amended §§ 221.1 through 
221.4 of this Part, effective March 11, 1968. Included in the amend-
ments was a new § 221.3(r), which provides that the reduction of the 
credit or deposit of additional collateral required to be made in 
respect to certain loans made by banks on convertible debt securities 
before March 11, 1968, shall be accomplished by April 10, 1968. 
Simultaneously with the adoption of such amendment, the Board 
published for comment a proposed new § 221.2(_1) (33 F.R. 2714), which 
would provide that loans by banks to creditors subject to Part 220 
(Regulation T) who hold themselves out to the public as making a con-
tinuous market in certain convertible debt securities and who meet 
certain other requirements (if the credit is to finance such market-
making activities) would not be subject to margin requirements, including 
§ 221.3(r). At that time creditors who might be eligible under the 
proposed § 221.2(_1) were advised to file certain required reports with 
the Federal Reserve Bank of the District in which the creditor's 
Principal office is located. 

To permit further study and anlysis of the proposal, and 
without prejudice to a determination whether the proposal will be 
adopted or withdrawn, the Board has deferred from April 10, 1968, 
to May 10, 1968, the date by which bank loans on convertible debt 
securities made before March 11, 1968 to those creditors (broker/dealer 
firms) who have filed such reports must be brought into compliance 
with the margin requirements of Part 221 (50 per cent margin status). 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 9th day of April 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L . 
R E S E R V E 
p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
'•'f^LRt^V 
For immediate release 
April 9, 1968 
A new 50 per cent margin requirement will take effect 
tomorrow (April 10, 1968) for certain loans made by banks on convertible 
bonds before March 11, 1968, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System said today. 
Mainly affected will he loans made in the period between 
October 20, 1967, w h e n the Board first proposed the extension of margin 
requirements to bank loans on convertible securities, and March 11, 1968. 
The 50 per cent margin requirement is already applicable to 
bank loans on convertible securities made since March 11, in accordance 
with amendments to its margin regulations adopted by the Board nn 
February 1. 
At that time, the Board also announced that it was con-
sidering amending its Regulation U, governing securities loans by banks, 
in such a way as to permit -credit to be extended on a more favorable basis 
to broker/dealer firms who hold themselves out to the public as making a 
continuous market in convertible securities and w h o meet certain other 
requirements. 
The announcement stated that firms which might be eligible 
if the exception were adopted, should immediately undertake to supply the 
reports and information required by the proposed 
amendment. 
To permit further study and analysis, and without determining 
whether the exception should be adopted or the proposal withdrawn, the 
Board today deferred for thirty days, to May 10, 1968, the date by which bank 
loans on convertibles made before March 11 t* those b r o k e r / d e a l e r firms which 
have hitherto filed the required reports must be brought into a 50 per cent 
margin status. 

Item No. 4 
4/9/68 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
Part 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Deferred Effective Date 
By document appearing in the Federal Register of 
February 8, 1968, (33 F.R. 2691) the Board of Governors announced 
the adoption of a new Part 207, effective March 11, 1968. Section 
207.1(a) of such Part requires persons subject to certain require-
ments set forth therein to register with the Board of Governors by 
April 10, 1968. Section 207.3(a) requires that every person who is 
registered pursuant to section 207.1(a) shall within 30 days following 
the end of each succeeding calendar quarter file a report on Federal 
Reserve Form G-4 with the Federal Reserve Bank of the district in 
which the principal office of the registrant is located. 
To lessen the burden on registrants initially subject to the 
regulation (who would otherwise have to prepare the first quarterly 
report by April 30) and permit additional time for modifying Federal 
Reserve Form G-4 in the light of experience gained from analysis 

-2- 
1 3 2 1 
of the initial registration, the Board has deferred the date on 
which such report shall be filed from April 30 to July 30, 1963, 
at which time the quarterly report covering the second quarter 
of I960 will also be due. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 9th day of April 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Formst&l 
Assistant Secretary 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
April 18, 1968. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board has deferred from April 30 to July 30, 1968, the 
date by which persons who are registered under Regulation G must file 
the first quarterly report under section 207.3(a) of the regulation. 
Enclosed is a form of letter which it is suggested be sent 
to persons who have registered under the regulation, acknowledging 
receipt of the registration statement and explaining the deferral of 
the first quarterly report. There is also enclosed for your information 
a copy of the document which is being submitted to the Federal Register 
for publication in this connection. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
^closures 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BAKKS 

20 
Dear Sirs: 
This will acknowledge the receipt of your registration 
statement under Regulation G,"Credit by Persons Other than Banks, 
Brokers, or Dealers for Purpose of Purchasing or Carrying Registered 
Equity Securities," issued by the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, effective March 11, 1968. 
Although section 207.3 of Regulation G requires a quarterly 
report to be filed on Form G-4 with this Federal Reserve Bank within 
thirty days following the end of each calendar quarter, the Board of 
Governors has deferred the time for filing the first report from 
April 30 to July 30, 1968, Accordingly, you should file two quarterly 
reports by July 30, 1968, one covering the first, and the other the 
second quarter of 1968. Copies of Form G-4 will be sent to you prior 
to June 30, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 

1327 
. Of GOu 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
4/9/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 10, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Timlen's letter of April 5, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board 
of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
appointment of Paul R. Reynolds as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Please advise 
the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

1328 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO 
S A N F R A N O I B O O , C A L I F O H NI A 
0 4 1 8 0 
Item No. 
April 9, 1968 
4/9/68 
Mr. J« Frank Campbell, 
Senior Vice Freeldent, 
Seattle Trust and Savings Sank, 
804 Second Avenue, 
Seattle, Washington 98104. 
Dear Mr. Campbell: 
On behalf of the Board of Governor* of the 
Federal Reserve System, actin^under delegated authority, 
this Bank has approved the establishment^by Seattle Trust 
and Savings Bank, Seattle, Washlngto^of a Halted 
service office tp- be operated ss 5^ilrive-in facility in 
conjunction with its Crossroads Branch, 15818 N.I. 8th 
Street, BellevUe, King County. Washington. 
Appr 
facility 
letter. 
wilN 
ral for the establishment of this drive-
expire one yeer from the date of this 
Very truly yours, 
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice Fresldent. 
