Minutes for May 7, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 
Amendments to Regulations T, U, and G 
deleting the so-called "agency" provisions. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
x t
 will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the 
m e
eting, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate only that you 
have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
. &H;; •'•..„.».. 

1640 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, May 7, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board 
Mrs. Semia and Miss McWhirter of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Noble, Plotkin, Sanders, 
and Shuter of the Legal Division 
Mr. Shull and Miss Ormsby of the Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International 
Finance 
Amendments to Regulations T, U, and G (Items 1-4). Earlier 
th 1 
is year the Board had adopted substantial amendments to Regulations T 
a
nd u, relating to credit for securities transactions, and a new Regu-
lation G. Each of the regulations now included provisions requiring 
that lenders obtain assurances from customers for whom they acted as 

1641 
5/7/68 
_2-
agent iri connection with certain securities transactions to the effect 
that those transactions were not in violation or evasion of the regu-
lations. Numerous protests were received, contending especially that 
these provisions would cause problems with respect to transactions 
involving foreign principals. The Board postponed the effective date 
°f the provisions, adopted revised versions of the paragraphs and, 
protests having continued, again postponed the effective date, this 
time to May 17, 1968. On April 30 the Board heard oral presentations 
b
y the New York Stock Exchange and the National Association of Securi-
ties Dealers regarding difficulties anticipated because of the "agency" 
Provisions. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 2, 1968, 
from Miss Hart and Messrs. Solomon, Partee, and Shuter pointing out 
tll
at a lead time of about two weeks would be required for persons sub-
ject to the "agency" provisions to make the necessary administrative 
a
rrangements with customers. Therefore, unless the provisions were to 
become effective in approximately their present form, a decision 
between two other alternatives was necessary. One possibility would 
be to modify the provisions further in light of the problems that had 
been cited; various modifications that might be considered were men-
tioned in the memorandum. Or, if the Board now felt that the provi-
S i o 
n s
 presented too many problems in proportion to the benefits to be 
derived, it could withdraw them. The area could be kept under surveil-
^
a n c e w
ith the thought of taking remedial action later if that should 
b e
 considered desirable. 

16 
5/7/68 
.3. 
Mr. Partee noted that in the past few days communications had 
been received from the Swiss National Bank and the Swiss Bankers Asso-
ciation expressing the grave concern of the Swiss banking community 
regarding the implications of the "agency" provisions. Mr. Solomon 
then commented on the need for a decision and the choices that seemed 
to be available. 
Chairman Martin observed that a great deal of time and effort 
had been spent in trying to work out suitable provisions, but without 
satisfactory results. In the circumstances, he had concluded that the 
best alternative would be to drop the provisions from the regulations. 
Governor Brimmer said he would not like to see the matter 
m
erely dropped. He would prefer to withdraw the provisions with a 
statement that the Board was considering asking for legislation to 
close the loophole in its regulations. He believed the Board would 
b e
 in a better posture if it said that, although the remedy it had 
tried had not proved feasible, a problem still existed. 
Chairman Martin commented that it might be preferable to say 
that the matter would be kept under surveillance rather than to suggesl 
that legislation might be sought. 
Governor Daane remarked that, while he was inclined to drop 
the provisions, he would be interested in knowing the attitude of the 
staff. 
Mr. Solomon replied that, in addition to the weight to be 
Siven to the questions and problems that had arisen, he had some 

1643 
5/7/68 
-4-
reservations about how effective the provisions were likely to be in 
Practice. Therefore, he would be inclined to drop them, but with the 
expectation that upon further study some means might be found to close 
the loophole more effectively. Or it might be decided to ask for 
legislation. 
Mr. Partee commented that, although the "agency" provisions 
were only one item in a much larger program, the staff had spent a 
great deal of time on them. He felt that the loophole was an important 
°ne and that remedial action, if it ever became feasible, might well 
result from publicity regarding abuses. However, he agreed that the 
Present climate was not good for such action. It would have been the 
s
t a f f s preference from the start to obtain legislation that would 
a
Pproach the problem through the borrower, but the experience in obtain-
l n
g legislation in the securities credit field was not favorable. 
In 
V l e w
 
the turmoil that had developed, he believed that on balance 
it would be best to drop the "agency" provisions. 
Miss Hart expressed agreement with the comments of Messrs. 
Solomon and Partee, but observed that some reactions heard from the 
securities industry suggested that the "agency" provisions were really 
n
°t so objectionable as critics contended. There were differences in 
l n
terpretation. 
Some parties had interpreted the provisions in the 
strictest way, and their position carried a great deal of weight. 
i v s 
V 

16 
5/7/68 
. 5 . 
Governor Daane stated that in the light of the staff comments 
he felt that the provisions should be laid aside at this juncture, and 
Governors Maisel and Sherrill expressed agreement with that position. 
Governor Brimmer inquired about the instructions to the staff 
1 1 1 t h a t
 event, and Chairman Martin suggested that the area be kept 
under observation for the time being. 
Governor Brimmer said he accepted the view that a serious loop-
hole was involved. Just because this particular approach to closing 
it had been found impracticable, the problem should not be forgotten. 
Nor would he like to see the Board back away from the need for remedy 
just because of criticism. While the agency approach had not been 
found workable, there should be a continuing effort to find a success-
ful vehicle. 
Chairman Martin observed that a consideration to be borne in 
m i n d 
w a s
 the disturbance that had developed among European bankers, 
°
V e r w
hom the Board had no control. 
The discussion then turned to the form of announcement that 
s
hould be made, a draft press release having been distributed by Mr. 
Fauver. Agreement was reached on a number of changes in wording. 
At the conclusion of the discussion the Board unanimously 
•^H£oved amendments to Regulations T, U, and G that would delete the 
u 
gency" provisions, effective May 7, 1968. Copies of the amendments 
form in which they were sent to the Federal Register are 

1645 
5/7/68 
-6-
attached as Items 1-3; a copy of the related press release is attached 
as Item No. 4. 
Miss Hart and Messrs. Plotkin and Shuter then withdrew from 
the meeting. 
Discount study. On April 23, 1968, the Board considered pro-
cedures for obtaining comments on the Final Report of the Steering 
Committee for the Fundamental Reappraisal of the Discount Mechanism. 
It was understood that the matter would be considered further after 
the report was revised in the light of suggestions received from mem-
bers of the Board and from some Reserve Bank Presidents. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 3, 1968, 
from Mr. Holland describing the changes that had been made in the 
report, all of which had been approved by the Steering Committee. 
The 
Committee also was in agreement with the following schedule proposed 
o r
 further consideration and distribution of the revised report: 
Early May - 
Distribution to Reserve Bank 
Presidents 
Mid-May - 
Distribution to members of Federal 
Advisory Council on a personal and 
confidential basis 
May 28 - 
Meeting of the Board with the Reserve 
Bank Presidents for preliminary dis-
cussion 
June 4 - 
Discussion with Federal Advisory 
Council 
June 18 - 
Meeting of the Board with the Reserve 
Bank Presidents for further discussion 

1646 
5/7/68 
- 7 -
Some time 
(After either first or second meeting 
in June - 
with the Presidents) Board considera-
tion of public distribution of report 
Submitted with Mr. Holland's memorandum was a draft of press 
release that might be used at such time as the Board decided to make 
the report public as a Committee study. 
Governor Daane said his study of the suggested procedures led 
him to the view that it might be desirable to keep the report entirely 
within the System until after at least one joint meeting of the Board 
W W the Presidents. The Federal Advisory Council was by statute a 
part of the System; yet there might be merit in letting the Board 
become surer of its own ground before the study was made available to 
a n
y group of bankers. He would not suggest delaying the whole time 
schedule, only rearranging it somewhat. 
It was brought out, however, that it did not appear feasible 
t o 
S c
hedule a meeting of the Board with the Presidents prior to the 
time when the report should be sent to the Federal Advisory Council 
it was to be discussed at the meeting with the Board on June 4. 
Governor Brimmer commented that the schedule now proposed was much 
m o r
e in tune with views he had expressed earlier. He thought it was 
a
Ppropriate that the report be made available to the Federal Advisory 
Council before it was released to the banking community generally. 
After further discussion the schedule proposed in Mr. Holland's 
m e
morandum was accepted. 

I G 
5/7/68 
-8-
Miss Ormsby and Mr. Grimwood then withdrew from the meeting. 
Interest rate matters. Three questions in the general area 
of interest rates were discussed today preparatory to a meeting this 
afternoon of the Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation, at which 
the Board was to be represented by Governor Sherrill. 
The first of the group of problems related to a request from 
Republic National Bank, Houston, Texas, for an interpretation under 
Regulation Q, Payment of Interest on Deposits, whether it was permis-
sible for a member bank to pay interest at the rate of 6-1/4 per cent 
Per annum (the maximum rate permissible under the regulation) on a 
$100,000 certificate of deposit with a maturity of at least 180 days 
issued to a group of 10 persons, each of whom would hold a $10,000 
Participation in the certificate, the group being formed solely for 
the purchase of the certificate. After discussion of the request on 
A
Pril 26, 1968, the Board asked the staff to determine whether Regula-
tion Q would permit the kind of cooperative arrangement described and, 
1
f it was not prohibited, to draft a possible amendment to the regula-
tion that would prohibit it. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated May 2, 1968, 
r
°
m
 the Legal Division expressing the view that the proposed arrange-
ment was not prohibited by the terms of Regulation Q. Attached to the 
memorandum was a draft of amendment of the Supplement to Regulation Q 
dg * 
signed to prohibit a member bank from paying a rate of interest in 

1MY6 
5/7/68 
-9-
excess of 5 per cent per annum on any single maturity time deposit if 
the bank knew, or had reason to know, that the deposit represented a 
pooling of funds (other than by members of the same household) princi-
pally for the purpose of obtaining a higher rate. 
Considerations 
bearing upon the advisability of such an amendment were set forth in 
the memorandum. 
Governor Maisel said he preferred the amendment to an approach 
that had been considered earlier, which would have had the effect of 
allowing some people to pool funds to obtain a higher rate but not 
others. if the Board must take a stand one way or the other, it 
seemed to him that the amendment represented the preferable approach. 
Mr. Sanders commented that the Legal Division did not believe 
that a pooling of funds by individuals to obtain a higher rate of 
interest would be an evasion of the regulation. However, the Division 
believed that such an arrangement would not be in keeping with the 
spirit of the regulation. 
Mr. Hackley remarked that while he had not discussed the prob-
lem with Governor Robertson, the latter had noted on his copy of the 
Division's memorandum that he thought the better course at this time 
would be to issue a statement that the Board considered the pooling 
a r
rangement contrary to the spirit and intent of the regulation. 
Mr. 
Hackley believed that even if the Board should decide not to amend the 
r e
gulation it would be advisable to discuss the problem with the Federal 

1649 
5/7/68 
-10-
Deposit Insurance Corporation, which had a parallel regulation, and 
also with the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the Coordinating Committee be 
asked to endorse the draft amendment. Governor Brimmer suggested, as 
an alternative, that the Committee be informed of Governor Robertson's 
view but told that the Board would, if necessary, be willing to adopt 
an amendment. Governor Maisel said his preference would be to empha-
size first that the Board was prepared to amend the regulation and 
then express willingness, if need be, to fall back to Governor 
Robertson's position. 
Further discussion indicated general agreement with the approach 
to the Committee that Governor Maisel had outlined. 
Discussion of the other interest rate problems proceeded con-
currently. One related to a proposal being considered by the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board that savings and loan associations be permitted 
to accept a new type of account, requiring 90-day notice of withdrawal, 
designed to fill the gap between regular passbook accounts (carrying 
a
 maximum rate of interest of 4-3/4 per cent except in certain areas) 
and 6-month bonus accounts (with a maximum rate of 5-1/4 per cent). 
The Board had now been furnished a memorandum dated May 6 in 
which Mr. Partee described the features of the proposed new account 
and discussed points of concern, principally that the terms contem-
plated really did not restrict the liquidity of the savings. 

1650 
5/7/68 
-11-
Th e other question was discussed by the Division of Research 
and Statistics in a memorandum dated May 3 reappraising the existing 
4 per cent ceiling on bank savings deposits. The Division made no 
recommendation on increasing the ceiling, but analyzed changes in 
over-all rate patterns since that ceiling was set nearly three and 
one-half years ago. 
As brought out in Mr. Partee's memorandum and his comments 
a t
 this meeting, although the new accounts proposed for savings and 
loan associations would require 90-day notice, the regulations of 
40 States and the bylaws of most Federal associations did not provide 
for such a notice. In effect, therefore, the funds could be obtained 
on demand. The only sacrifice would be in terms of foregoing current 
Period interest. The Board's staff had emphasized in interagency con-
ferences that the distinction between accounts on the basis of differ-
ences in liquidity seemed an important principle to observe, and urged 
that this distinction be introduced as soon as possible. The staff 
the Home Loan Bank Board had agreed in principle; they promised 
to consider introducing the withdrawal restriction now wherever it 
W a s
 legal and within one year from the introduction of the plan in 
a n
y event. Thus a 90-day withdrawal restriction would apply immedi-
a t
ely i n iq States, would apply to Federal associations as they had 
their charters amended, and presumably would become general on July 1, 
1969. This would mean, however, that there would be no effective 

5/7/68 
-12-
restrictions generally on immediate withdrawal during the period 
immediately ahead, which probably would be sensitive in terms of 
competitive relationships and flows of funds. 
It appeared to Mr. Partee that the prospective gains to the 
savings and loans were minimal, because in California and certain 
other areas they could pay 5 per cent on passbook savings and 5-1/4 
Per cent was generally available on bonus accounts. He had been 
told informally that the two principal reasons for the proposal were: 
(1) there was a great deal of complaint from the savings and loan 
community regarding unfair competition from golden passbook accounts 
offered by banks, and (2) many savings and loan customers preferred 
a
 passbook to a certificate. 
It was difficult for the Board's staff to tell how much influ-
ence the introduction of the new type of account might have on savings 
flows between commercial banks and savings and loan associations, Mr. 
P a
rtee continued. His guess was that the magnitudes would be fairly 
small. 
Governor Maisel commented that he too considered the signifi-
cance marginal, and that he did not see any strong objection. He 
suggested that Governor Sherrill indicate to the Coordinating Commit-
tee that the matter appeared to be relatively unimportant, that the 
H
°nie Loan Bank Board should adopt the proposal if it wanted to, but 
t h
a t it seemed to be primarily cosmetic. However, the Committee 

1 0 5 ^ 
5/7/68 
-13-
snould be apprised that the Board believed a basic problem existed in 
the relationship to the market of the rates on various savings instru-
ments. The memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics 
contained a good analysis of the competitive aspects of the rate struc-
ture, but he did not think its treatment of monetary policy aspects 
was entirely adequate. After consultation with the Coordinating Com-
mittee, the Board should be ready to determine some time in the next 
month what action would be appropriate. 
Mr. Partee remarked that in the staff's view the situation 
W a
s complicated by strong indications that many thrift institutions 
could not pay a higher rate without danger to their undivided profits. 
There ensued comments regarding flows of savings among banks 
a n d
 thrift institutions, following which Governor Brimmer said that 
be had asked the staff for estimates on the position of nonbank thrift 
l n
stitutions through April. From his study of the data he was con-
vinced that the question of the new type of account was only a digres-
sion from the real issue. As Governor Maisel had said, the important 
Problem at the present time was the stance of the various classes of 
i n
stitutions vis-a-vis the market. He believed that the Coordinating 
Committee should focus on the question how all institutions together 
could defend themselves against rising market rates. His own view was 
^ a t they could not do so under the present rate structure. 
Therefore, 
h e
 Proposed that the Board consider increasing the rate ceiling for 

1653 
5/7/68 
-14-
passbook savings at member banks by 1/2 of 1 per cent; it would then 
be up to the Home Loan Bank Board to make whatever adjustment it con-
sidered correct for savings and loan associations. He did not believe 
banks should be put in a position where they would lose substantial 
amounts of deposits because the Home Loan Bank Board refused to recog-
nize the defects of the rate structure. 
Governor Brimmer further stated that he would strongly recom-
mend that the Home Loan Bank Board not allow the proposed 90-day 
accounts, an action he believed would be misleading. However, the 
question was one for that Board to decide. The fundamental question 
was the ability of savings institutions to compete against the market. 
H e
 agreed that the question of a ceiling increase for banks should not 
be decided until there had been a decision on the pending tax surcharge 
bill, but he believed it would be helpful if any action could be taken 
b
y the first of July. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that a passbook ceiling 
increase would have a seriously adverse impact on thrift institutions, 
with a resulting impact on monetary policy. He would like to have the 
staff study that aspect further. The fundamental problem the thrift 
institutions 
were facing was that even the most efficient of them 
needed a certain spread between their portfolio yields and their divi-
d e n d
 payments. Dividend rates could be raised only if portfolio yields 
c
ould be increased. 

I ( i 5 l 
5/7/68 
-15-
Governor Daane expressed the view that it would definitely be 
in order to raise with the Coordinating Committee the possibility of 
increasing the ceiling rate on bank passbook savings to 4-1/2 per 
cent, for full discussion of the implications of such a move. 
After further discussion it was understood that the Coordinating 
Committee would be informed by Governor Sherrill of the tenor of the 
Board's thinking on the several questions that had been raised. 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board, and Messrs. Golden and 
Kichline of the Division of Research and Statistics entered the room 
at this point. 
Holding company applications. On the basis of analytical 
material that had been distributed, and following discussion at today's 
meeting, the Board unanimously approved the following applications: 
Application by First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
Columbus, Ohio, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of The City National Bank & 
Trust Company of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio, and 
The Farmers Savings and Trust Company, Mansfield, 
Ohio. 
Application by First Virginia Bankshares Corpora-
tion, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire 51 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of Monticello National 
Bank, Charlottesville, Virginia. 
Application by The First National Bancorporation, 
Inc., Denver, Colorado, to become a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 67 per cent or 
more of the voting shares of The First National 
Bank of Denver, Denver, Colorado, and 51 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of The First National 
Bank of Bear Valley, Denver, Colorado, The First 
National Bank of North Glenn, North Glenn, Colorado, 
and The First National Bank of Southglenn, Arapahoe 
County, Colorado. 

1G55 
5/7/68 
-16-
It was understood that the staff would draft for the Board
f
s considera-
tion orders and statements reflecting these actions. 
Conference of economists. Governor Daane commented informally 
°n issues discussed at a meeting held recently at Bologna, Italy, 
attendance at which had included prominent international economists 
as well as officials of a number of central banks and governments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: A letter was sent 
today to First National City Bank, New 
York, New York, acknowledging receipt 
of notice of its intent to establish an 
additional branch in the United Kingdom, 
to be located in Belfast, Northern Ireland. 
Governor Robertson today approved on 
behalf of the Board memoranda recom-
mending the following actions relating 
to the Board's staff: 
Christina M. Boxwell as Personnel Clerk, Division of Personnel 
^ministration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, 
e
ffective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Diane Werneke as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
tatistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,734, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
On May 7, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as indicated by the following 
letters, copies of which are attached 
under the respective item numbers indi-
cated : 

5/7/68 
-17-
_By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
approving the appointment of John H. Lahey as 
assistant examiner. 
Letter to Marine Midland Trust Company of 
Western New York, Buffalo, New York, approving 
the establishment of a branch at 268 Main Street. 

1657 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 1 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/7/68 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. T] 
PART 220 - CREDIT BY BROKERS, DEALERS, AND 
MEMBERS OF NATIONAL SECURITIES EXCHANGES 
Creditor Acting as Agent 
1. Effective immediately, § 220.7(f) is revoked. 
The purpose of this amendment is to delete a provision 
r e
lating to a creditor acting as agent. (The effective date of such 
Provision was earlier deferred until May 17, 1968 (33 F.R. 5943).) 
is deleted because of the possibility that it might give rise to 
disproportionate operational problems, particularly with respect to 
transactions involving foreign principals. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code 
f i 
» relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 
e
£fective dates, were not followed in connection with this amendment. 
The 
e
 effect of the amendment is to relieve a restriction. In the 
c
ircumstances, the Board found that following such procedures would 
a u i
t in delay 
that would be contrary to the public interest and 
no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 7th day of May 1968. 
• t •' ^ 
.•«> 
^ ^ c a o : ^ 
luvoi'/ii^j -
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
I t e m 
N o > 
5/7/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. U] 
PART 221 - CREDIT BY BANKS FOR THE PURPOSE OF 
PURCHASING OR CARRYING REGISTERED STOCKS 
Bank Acting as Agent 
1. Effective Immediately, § 221.3(u) and (v) are amended 
to read as follows: 
221.3 
Miscellaneous provisions. 
*
*
*
*
* 
(u) Arranging for credit. No bank shall arrange for the 
extension or maintenance of any credit for the purpose of purchasing 
o r 
C a
*rylng any stock registered on a national securities exchange, 
except upon the same terms and conditions on which the bank itself 
c
°uld extend or maintain such credit under the provisions of this 
Part. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delete a provision 
Elating to a bank acting as agent. 
(The effective date of such pre-
d i o n , which had been designated as § 221.3(u), was earlier deferred 
U n t
U May 17, 1968 (33 F.R. 5943).) 
It is deleted because of the 
Possibility that it might give rise to disproportionate operational 
P
r
oblems, particularly with respect to transactions involving foreign 
P r l
n c i p a l s . 
b . The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
C o d G
» relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 

effective dates, were not followed in connection with this amendment. 
The effect of the amendment is to relieve a restriction. In the 
circumstances, the Board found that following such procedures would 
result in delay and would be contrary to the public interest and serve 
no useful purpose. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 7th day of May 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

"V' 
tv' 
1660 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 3 
5/7/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
M . .•• 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. G] 
PART 207 - CREDIT BY PERSONS OTHER THAN BANKS, BROKERS, 
OR DEALERS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PURCHASING OR 
CARRYING REGISTERED EQUITY SECURITIES 
Itii-
Lender Acting a 3 Agent 
1. Effective immediately § 207.4(f) and (g) are amended 
to read as follows: 
§ 207.4 Miscellaneous provisions. 
*
*
*
*
* 
(
f
) Arranging for credit. A lender may arrange for the 
extension or maintenance of credit by any person upon the same terms 
a
*id conditions as those upon which the lender, under the provisions 
this Part, may himself extend or maintain such credit, but only 
u
Pon such terms and conditions, except that this limitation shall not 
• • i 
a
Pply with respect to the arranging by a lender for a bank subject to 
p
art 221 of this Chapter (Regulation U) to extend or maintain credit 
0 n
 registered securities or exempted securities. 
2a. The purpose of this amendment is to delete a provision 
delating to a lender acting as agent. (The effective date of such 
Provision, which had been designated as § 207.4(f), was earlier 
deferred until May 17, 1968 (33 F.R. 5943).) 
It is deleted because 
o f
 the possibility that it might give rise to disproportionate opera-
^onal problems, particularly with respect to transactions involving 
foreign principals< 

b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred 
effective dates, were not followed in connection with this amendment. 
The effect of the amendment is to relieve a restriction. In the 
circumstances, the Board found that following such procedures would 
result in delay that would be contrary to the public interest and serve 
no useful purpose. 
ri 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 7th day of May 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

Item No. 4 
5/7/68 
For immediate release. 
7^ ^953 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today the deletion from its margin regulations of 
certain provisions, previously scheduled to become effective on 
May 17, which would have applied to banks, brokers, and other 
lenders when they act as agents for others who are in the business 
of lending against registered equity securities. 
The action, which deleted sections 207.4(f), 220.7(f), 
and 221.3<u) of Regulations G, T, and U, removes the requirement 
that banks, brokers, and other lenders obtain assurances from 
those customers for whom they act as agent in connection with 
certain securities transactions to the effect that these trans-
actions are not in violation or evasion of the regulations. 
The provisions were deleted because of the possibility 
that they might give rise to disproportionate operational problems, 
Particularly with regard to transactions involving foreign principals. 
However, in light of the potential for evasion of the Regulations 
through agency activities, the Board will keep this area under 
continuing surveillance. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
5/7/68 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E 3 P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 8, 1968 
Mr. Harry W . Runing, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained 
in Mr. Pugh's letter of May 3, 1968, the Acting 
Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the appointment of John H . Lahey as an 
assistant examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland. Please advise the effective date of the 
appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

> rv -
Ml. -J i 
••iSfiS&fc.. 
1661 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 6 
5/7/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 9, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Marine Midland Trust Company 
of Western New York, 
Buffalo, New York. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of 
Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the establishment of a 
branch by Marine Midland Trust Company of Western New 
York, Buffalo, New York, at 268 Main Street, Buffalo, 
New York, provided the branch is established within 
six months from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been 
determined that your bank's management is satisfactory, 
and that the proposed branch would provide your bank 
with adequate space to serve more conveniently its 
present and future customers without any significant 
change in the existing competitive situation. You 
are urged to give careful consideration to all means 
of strengthining your bank's capital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
v 
