Minutes for 
November 14, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

4304 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, November 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 2:15 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Salary administration (Item No. 1). In a letter of October 11, 
' 
1967, President Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York trans-
om r-h • 
fitted a request of the directors of that Bank to meet with the Board 
in November to discuss the general question of administration of offi-
cers' salaries at the Bank. The meeting today was arranged pursuant 
to that request. A memorandum with respect to the meeting is attached 
a s
 Item No. 1. 
Following the discussion with the New York directors the meet-
ing adjourned. 
Secretary/ j 

' 43« 
Item No. 1 
11/14/67 
A meeting of directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York with the members of the Board of Governors was held at 
the Federal Reserve Building on November 14, 1967, to discuss the 
general question of administration of officers' salaries at the 
New York Bank. The meeting had been arranged at the request of 
the directors. 
All members of the Board were present along with Messrs. 
Sherman, Kenyon, and Johnson of the Board's staff. The New York 
directors present included Chairman Everett N. Case, Deputy Chairman 
Kenneth H. Hannan, Class A Directors George A. Murphy and Eugene H. 
Morrison, and Class B Director Maurice R. Forman. President Hayes 
°f the New York Bank also attended along with Vice President Bilby 
and Secretary and Assistant Counsel Debs. 
The New York Board of Directors had proposed salaries for 
officers of the Bank effective January 1, 1968, that included merit 
increases for 78 per cent of staff, considerably in excess of the 
per cent limit specified in the guidelines contained in the 
Board's outstanding letter to the Federal Reserve Banks. The New York 
®
a
nk also proposed adjustments in the officer salary ranges. 
President 
H a
yes had discussed these proposals with the Board's Committee on 
°
r
ganization, Compensation, and Building Plans, and the New York 
directors then requested a meeting with the Board. 
Governor Mitchell, as Chairman of the Board's Committee, made 
a n
 introductory statement in which he noted that part of the problem 

had to do with the salary ranges that prevailed today at the Federal 
Reserve Banks and what ought to be done about them. In general, the 
Board had taken the position, particularly with respect to nonofficer 
salaries, that community wages were an appropriate guideline. 
Accord-
ingly, wage surveys were made periodically and salary structures were 
justified according to community standards. At one time the effort 
had been to place the structures somewhat above prevailing salary 
scales in the community. In years of inflationary bias that was not 
considered an appropriate policy, and the Board had not encouraged 
Reserve Banks to lead the market. However, the Board had maintained 
the position consistently that community wage rates were an over-
l i n g factor in the fixing of nonofficer salaries. Thus, nonofficer 
salaries at the New York Reserve Bank tended to run from 5 to 20 per 
c
ent above those at other Reserve Banks, apparently reflecting cost-
living differentials. 
i 
When it came to officer salaries, Governor Mitchell continued, 
there were difficulties in using the same sort of criterion. 
For one 
t h
ing, there was the problem of finding comparable positions in the 
community. 
Nevertheless, several attempts had been made. 
Outside 
Management firms had conducted surveys, one in New York and one in 
Dallas, with results that were not completely satisfactory. 
This 
y e
a r it was decided to attempt another survey, this time by System 
Personnel. Mr. Leonard of the St. Louis Reserve Bank had organized 
a
 staff who conducted interviews in various Federal Reserve cities. 

4307 
-3-
The interviewers were knowledgeable about Reserve Bank operations 
and were in a position to relate them to those of other institutions. 
The findings of the Leonard survey had been circulated to all the 
Reserve Banks. 
The Board's Committee was currently considering the 
findings in relation to possible changes in officer salary ranges. 
Nevertheless, Governor Mitchell said, in only a handful of 
instances did the existing ranges present a problem in terms of 
accommodating current requests for officer salary increases. 
The 
Committee had agreed to breach the existing ceilings in each of 
those cases. However, the issue would have to be faced more squarely 
when it came to 1969, for the head room in the existing ranges would 
b
y then have been exhausted in numerous cases. One problem in deter-
mining appropriate ranges would be to avoid excessive compaction. 
Certain questions growing out of the Leonard survey, Governor 
Mitchell added, seemed to warrant further study. Upon making a 
comparative analysis it was rather difficult to understand why five 
officer salary grades, as at New York, were more appropriate than 
three or four. It was also difficult to determine the basis on which 
officers were assigned to particular grades. In addition, the numbers 
offic ers varied considerably from one Reserve Bank to another. 
It 
W o u l d
 appear desirable for the Reserve Bank directors, the Chairmen's 
Conference, and the Presidents' Conference to take a look at the whole 
°fficer structure at the Reserve Banks and see whether it could be 
better rationalized. He did not have any strong convictions, and he 

did not think the other members of the Board's Committee had, but 
it was the general feeling that perhaps some improvement could be 
achieved in terms of the number of salary grades and in assignments 
of officer personnel. 
Governor Mitchell went on to say that the Board of Governors 
shared the concern of the Reserve Bank directors about the problem 
of salary administration. 
The Board had statutory responsibility 
for the approval of salaries, yet it did not want to inject itself 
unduly into the determination of particular salaries as long as they 
fell within a suitable general framework. 
Chairman Case said that the directors of the New York Bank, 
especially the Committee on Welfare of Staff, appreciated the oppor-
tunity to meet with the members of the Board of Governors. He thought 
that this evidence of concern on the part of directors was consonant 
w
ith the best traditions of the Federal Reserve System. He had read 
the interesting paper emanating from the Ninth District on the role 
a
nd responsibilities of Reserve Bank directors, a subject that he 
understood was going to be considered at the forthcoming Conference 
o f
 Chairmen. 
It was relevant to the concern felt by the New York 
Erectors with regard to salary administration. 
If the objectives 
°f the Federal Reserve Act were to be achieved, it seemed important 
t h
at the officers of the regional Banks, as well as the Board of 
G
°vernors in the exercise of its ultimate responsibility, have the 
benefit of advice and counsel from representative members of the 

' 4309 
-5-
community, including its industrial, financial, and agricultural 
components. 
Chairman Case said he was encouraged by Governor Mitchell's 
introductory remarks. 
The problem of compaction was a real one, 
especially in the higher-ranking positions. 
It was also a factor, 
at least in the case of the New York Bank, at the lowest officer 
level, where the community-related salaries for top nonofficer 
personnel tended to impinge on the ranges for the junior officers. 
There would appear to be little difficulty in operating under the 
present guidelines and salary ranges in a static situation, but this 
was a period of dynamic movement of the economy, with pressures on 
wages, prices, and costs. 
The concern of the New York directors 
reflected the kind of upward movement that had occurred in salary 
ranges at commercial banks, in industry, and at universities, and 
the danger if there was too long a lag before appropriate adjust-
ments were made at the New York Reserve Bank. 
If the Reserve Bank 
should fail to recruit and hold senior and junior officers of the 
Necessary caliber, particularly in view of the special functions 
Performed by the Bank for the Open Market Committee and the Treasury 
both the domestic and international fields, grave consequences 
c
ould result. 
The directors felt that they would be derelict in 
their duty if they failed to point out the consequences of a lag 
that was allowed to become too wide and last too long. 
The directors' 
v
iews were based on their appraisal of the competitive situation, 

I 4310 
-6-
the quality of some of the people who had been lost by the Bank 
over the past several years, and current operating requirements, 
not only of the New York Bank but of the System as a whole. 
Review 
of those factors had compelled the directors to make recommendations 
for salary increases that seemed to do violence to the existing 
guidelines. Merit increases were proposed for 57 of the 73 officers 
whose salaries were subject to those guidelines or, in other words, 
about 78 per cent instead of 40 per cent. Nevertheless, the direc-
tors felt that they would not be performing their duty unless they 
gave the Board their best judgment on the salary adjustments that 
w
ere needed in view of the prevailing situation in the New York area, 
where competition for top talent was exceptionally strong. 
Turning to the Leonard report, Chairman Case said it had been 
reviewed carefully. The document, though useful, was open to criticism 
°
n S O m e
 grounds. 
It appeared that the Leonard study took undue account 
°f the public service aspect of the Reserve Banks and went to an extreme 
discounting the higher salaries paid in private enterprise. 
Insofar 
a s
 the data compiled were valid, they had to be accepted as reflecting 
a
 substantial discount from community salary levels. Further, it was 
n
°t clear to what extent the computations in the survey took account 
the vari ous fringe benefits available at commercial banks and in 
industry. The survey, however, did support the views of the directors 
t h
at there had been a lag in Federal Reserve salaries that urgently 
n
eeded correction. 

Chairman Case went on to recall, from his experience in 
university administration, that in earlier inflationary periods 
salary adjustments were made first at the recruitment level. 
The 
hope was that senior professors would be satisfied with token 
increases. 
Then there was a realization of the danger of losing 
top staff, and also that younger people were looking ahead and 
asking what they could anticipate, so it became necessary to adjust 
at the top levels. 
In his opinion, no university could operate under 
the guidelines applicable to Reserve Bank officer salaries. 
The 
New York Reserve Bank was losing some key people at the levels of 
economist and adviser not just to private industry but to educational 
institutions. 
There was indeed a problem, and the directors welcomed 
the chance to discuss it. An evidence of common concern on the 
Board's part would be highly important, not only to officers whose 
future was at stake 
but to the New York directors who had spent a 
good deal of time in an effort to make a realistic appraisal of what 
needed to be done in light of the community situation, while bearing 
mind the limitations of Government salary scales and the quasi-
Public nature of Reserve Bank service. 
Governor Daane commented that he had been concerned about 
problem over a period of time and that he fully recognized the 
r e s
ponsibilities of the New York Reserve Bank and its personnel, 
Particularly in those specialized areas with which he was most 
^miliar. 
He hoped it would be possible to continue to attract 

and retain personnel of the caliber presently serving the Reserve 
Bank. Governor Mitchell's comment that the existing salary ranges 
provided ample room for current recognition of the talents of such 
people was reassuring, but he (Governor Daane) was apprehensive 
about the longer-run problem throughout the Federal Reserve System 
generally in areas such as research, where ample opportunities for 
growth of superior personnel should be available. When it came to 
the question whether that philosophy could be reconciled with the 
guidelines, he did not feel so sure of his ground. 
Governor Mitchell 
apparently believed that the existing guidelines permitted sufficient 
recognition of special cases and could be reconciled with the need 
for attracting and retaining competent personnel. 
Governor Mitchell remarked that over the years that the 
guidelines had been in effect there had been various modifications, 
including adjustments to recognize special situations. By and large 
the guidelines had helped to avoid automatic increases at the officer 
level. 
However, for reasons such as those mentioned by Chairman Case, 
this was admittedly a difficult time for salary administration. 
The 
New York directors, through President Hayes, had asked that the 
Members of the Board not make up their minds before today's discus-
s
i°n, so the Board's Committee had not attempted to reach a judgment 
w
ith regard to the New York situation. 
The other Banks appeared 
to have encountered no great problem in living within the guidelines, 

43X3 
-9-
but in the case of the New York Bank the Committee wanted to hear 
from the directors before facing up to the problem. 
As to the Leonard survey, Governor Mitchell said that the 
Board's Committee would like to have the reactions of Reserve Bank 
directors, the Reserve Bank Chairmen, and the Reserve Bank Presidents 
at the earliest opportunity. 
In general, the objective was to try 
to operate as well as possible in 1968 and to proceed with fixing a 
framework for 1969. It did not appear that deferral until 1969 would 
represent any great handicap; with a handful of exceptions, all of the 
suggested increases in officer salaries could be accommodated within 
the present head room. 
President Hayes agreed that each of the suggested increases at 
the New York Bank could be made within the existing ranges. 
However, 
if the ranges were raised, a number of officers in the lower grades 
Would be entitled to exemption from the 40 per cent limitation, because 
their salaries would then be below the grade minimum. Also, the ranges 
Were well known and represented a kind of goal for all officers. 
This 
^ad a considerable bearing on their general attitude with regard to 
w
°rking at the New York Bank or elsewhere. 
The existence of ranges 
that seemed highly restrictive at the top had a deterring effect, 
because it was important in the thinking of talented younger people 
t o
 know the goals to which they could aspire. 
Governor Mitchell replied that, as he had said, the Board's 
Co ^ i t t e e was pushing ahead with a review of the officer salary 

431 
-10-
ranges at all Reserve Banks, starting with discussion at the forth-
coming meeting of the Chairmen's Conference. The next step would 
be to have the subject placed on the agenda for discussion by the 
Presidents' Conference. With the benefit of views from those sources, 
the Committee would move forward so that some time in 1968 a change 
in the ranges could be announced. However, the Committee did not 
want to move too fast in view of the status of current negotiations 
between the Congress and the Administration on Government expenditures, 
including salaries. 
Deputy Chairman Hannan said he had experienced the frustrations 
referred to by Mr. Case when it came to making salary recommendations 
f°r various key members of the staff. The directors had found them-
selves in something of a bind, and as a result had recommended salary 
increases for some 78 per cent of the officers covered by the guide-
U n e s . 
This was largely due to the trend of salaries in industry in 
the New York community. There was tremendous competition for the 
best of the younger personnel, particularly with industrial and finan-
c
ial organizations moving into the international arena to a much 
greater extent. The economist was becoming a key man in the thinking 
o f
 corporate management. There were outstanding persons at the 
New York Reserve Bank in key positions, and the basic question was 
Aether they could be held in the face of the fierce competition for 
t a
lent. 

431 
Mr. Hannan said the directors appreciated that the Leonard 
report had been put together with a great deal of care. 
However, 
the study may have been made within too narrow a framework. 
The 
New York Reserve Bank was really competing with all of industry. 
The 
question whether the Bank could hold its capable younger personnel 
remained to be seen. In industry today, if a man was going anywhere, 
his salary should be at the $40,000 level when he reached age 40. He 
was not suggesting salary ranges of that magnitude for the Reserve 
Bank, but the Bank was up against severe competition and could not 
afford 
to drag its feet. While its personnel measured up well against 
the best talent in industry, persons of such competence were not likely 
be found in the Bank in years ahead unless an indication could be 
given that the sights were being changed and there was a future within 
the Federal Reserve. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the Federal Reserve had always 
keen a prime training ground. For example, the Conference of Business 
oonomists included many persons with System experience. 
The Federal 
Reserve would not want to operate in such a way that a reasonable 
Movement of that kind did not occur. 
On the question of compaction, Governor Mitchell said he did 
n
°t think that the New York Bank had been hampered in pushing good 
°ffleers forward to about the $30,000 level. After reviewing statis-
t i 
C s
 prepared by the Board's Personnel Division on losses of officer 
p e r
sonnel at Federal Reserve Banks in the past decade, he noted that 

4316 
-12-
better than 50 per cent of the persons lost were economists, even 
though they might have been carrying different assignments at the 
respective Banks at the time of their departure. He also pointed 
out that a number of those who had left the Banks later returned 
to Federal Reserve service. He doubted whether any educational 
institution had nearly as good a record of retaining staff. 
Governor Daane indicated that he was inclined to be skep-
tical of the figures. The Reserve Banks had capitalized on conditions 
in the past and on the improved opportunities for economists to rise 
to top positions. He was not sure that it would be possible to 
continue to maintain such a record. In his view the quality of 
attractiveness of Federal Reserve Bank service was declining. 
The 
basic question was whether the Reserve Banks could accommodate the 
People that they really needed to hold. The list of those who had 
left Federal Reserve service included some key names. 
Mr. Hannan then spoke of the problem of maintaining suffi-
cient depth so that competent replacements would be available as 
needed. The directors considered it part of their job to assure 
S u
c h availability. 
The question was how to provide adequate 
"surance and still operate within the guidelines. 
Mr. Hannan went on to say that as he saw it the continuing 
s t
rength of the System depended on flexibility to meet regional 
c
°nditions while conforming to orderly supervision centered in 
Washington. 
The responsibilities of Reserve Bank directors were 

4317 
-13-
not defined as explicitly as one might wish, but the directors 
clearly had initial responsibility for fixing salaries that appeared 
adequate to assure meeting the objectives that everyone had in mind. 
The issuance of guidelines necessarily meant sacrificing a good deal 
of flexibility in the interest of centralized supervision. He was 
wondering whether it would do violence to any important principle if 
the Board of Governors were to say that it would accept the best 
judgment of the New York directors as to what was needed in the way 
of salary administration to maintain the functions of the Bank, and 
that it would approve proposed salaries on that basis if they were 
not found unreasonable. 
In other words, there would be a presumption 
o f
 approval. The guidelines might be altered in such fashion as to 
indicate that they were intended to be generally useful as guides to 
good practices and that the Board would find it easier to approve 
salary recommendations if they conformed to the guidelines. 
The 
directors would then be on notice that only for substantial cause 
should they recommend salaries going beyond the guidelines. 
However, 
t
he guidelines would not have a mandatory flavor, and the result 
w
°uld be an important gain in terms of flexibility. That would have 
a
 salutary effect on the attitudes of directors, who now had to 
e x
Perience the frustration felt when their best judgment was subject 
t o
 guidelines determined in advance. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the foregoing suggestion 
introduced the problem of fair treatment among the Federal Reserve 

4318 
-14-
Banks. The directors of some Banks might decide that it was appro-
priate to stay close to the guidelines, while the directors of other 
Banks might pay less attention to the guidelines and tend to put the 
burden of proof on someone else. The result would be contention 
within the System, on the ground that one Reserve Bank was going too 
far while another was suffering. The value of guidelines was that 
they contributed to a generally uniform policy but left room for some 
administrative flexibility. 
They made it easier for the Board of 
Governors to reach decisions and for the System generally to operate. 
Mr. Hannan inquired whether the New York Bank should be 
equated with the other Reserve Banks, and Governor Mitchell replied 
that he thought it should except to the extent the New York Bank 
Performed unique functions. 
President Hayes suggested that the problem not be defined 
t o
° narrowly. The open market and foreign currency operations were 
s
Pecial functions that stood out 
But those functions required a 
good deal of support from other personnel such as the research and 
l e
gal staffs. By reason of its unique functions the New York Bank 
a s
 a whole took on a different character from the other Banks. 
Governor Mitchell responded that many of the functions 
Performed at the New York Bank were similar to functions performed 
a t
 the other Reserve Banks. 
The officers in charge of those functions 
Kn J 
Parallel responsibilities, although in some cases the volume at 
N e W Y o r
k might be larger. He had never encountered a Board member 

-15-
who had any inclination to discount the importance of obtaining 
the best possible talent to conduct the open market or foreign 
functions or to man the supporting operations, 
President Hayes commented that it was to the advantage 
of the Board, and the Treasury as well, to have a good backstop 
at the New York Bank. 
That was part of the total picture. 
Further on the matter of compaction, Governor Mitchell 
said that the Board's Committee, in thinking about the problem, 
had had in mind principally the relationships between Federal 
Reserve and community salaries. 
It seemed evident that in the 
lower grades the Federal Reserve was fully competitive. 
Further, 
there seemed to be no reason for compaction at intermediate levels, 
running as high as Grade C of the officer salary structure. 
If 
there was compaction up to that level, it should not exist. 
President Hayes responded that the 40 per cent restriction 
°n merit salary increases acted automatically as a serious drag in 
the lower officer grades, to the point where the salaries of non-
officer employees at top levels impinged upon the salaries of 
°fficers at the junior levels. 
Governor Maisel said he could see some reason for that. 
However,, there was presently no limit on promotional increases or 
the amount of such increases. 
President Hayes replied that in the upper employee grades 
th 
e
 ranges had been raised rather liberally. 
Further, annual merit 

-16-
increases might be granted to 80 or 85 per cent of such employees, 
whereas officer salary increases were restricted by the 40 per cent 
limitation. 
That limitation made it necessary to pick and choose 
carefully among the junior officers or there would be no room for 
increases for senior officers. 
In the employee area, it had always 
been acknowledged that the Reserve Banks could operate within the 
established grades according to their best judgment. The question 
was why the Reserve Banks should not be allowed to operate in the 
same fashion when it came to officers' salaries. 
Governor Mitchell said it was the Committee's rationale 
that when a person became an officer he assumed special responsi-
bilities and attained a status unlike that of the typical employee. 
A s 
a n
 officer he was eligible to receive larger salary increases, 
a
nd if he was an outstanding officer they might be granted every year 
Chairman Case said his concern with regard to waiting until 
1969 to adjust the salary ranges was of the following character. 
The 
New York directors found that there was always a two or three-year 
*
a
g in getting partial approval of what they recommended at a given 
moment, and by the time an adjustment was made the situation had 
changed so that the previous recommendations were obsolete. He would 
like to see arrangements established that would enable the Federal 
Reserve to anticipate its needs and be sure that it had provided for 
Probable requirements over a period ahead. Every time there was a 
the New York Bank found it necessary to justify a special 

request and ask for a dispensation. 
The problems tended to accumu-
late if not dealt with promptly. He wondered whether, in fact, the 
Board would have found the salary increases recommended over the 
past three years, including those currently recommended, in any 
sense unreasonable or subject to disapproval if the guidelines were 
not in existence. He had some feeling that the recommendations had 
not always been judged on their merits as recommendations made within 
the context of the practical situation confronting the New York Bank; 
rather that they were judged within the context of whether they would 
°r would not satisfy the guidelines. 
Governor Mitchell replied that he thought the New York recom-
mendations had always been carefully considered. As the saying went, 
'the squeaky wheel always gets the most oil," and the representations 
the New York Bank had had that effect. 
Governor Mitchell went on to say that the Committee did not 
^
e e
l that this was an appropriate time to announce a whole new set 
o f
 officer salary ranges throughout the Federal Reserve System in 
light of the negotiations the Administration was conducting with the 
Congress having to do with holding down the escalation of Government 
S a
laries. 
In such circumstances, it did not seem appropriate for 
the Federal Reserve to take the lead. However, a plan should be 
8
°tten in readiness. That might or might not require another survey 
i n
 the summer or fall of 1968. As indicated previously, however, no 

4322 
-18-
change in the ranges was needed at this particular time to accom-
modate salary proposals from the Reserve Banks; the only problem 
had to do with the application of the 40 per cent rule to the 
New York Bank. The Board's Committee had met with Mr. Hayes on 
that subject but had come to no conclusions pending today's dis-
cussion. 
Governor Maisel suggested that the broader question was 
whether the Federal Reserve felt that it should occupy a unique 
Position when the Congress was saying that there should be no 
changes in salaries of Government officials because of the infla-
tionary situation. This broader question had applicability not only 
to the question of the officer salary ranges but also to the aggre-
gate amount of officer salary increases at the present time. If the 
Government as a whole was following a restrictive course, the question 
w
as how the Federal Reserve would be viewed if officer salaries at a 
Reserve Bank were increased in the aggregate by, say, 10 per cent. 
Th 
U
S the 40 per cent restriction came into the picture, for it provided 
some limitation on the aggregate increase. The increases recommended 
a t
 New York, compared with the existing base, were considerably greater 
t h
an those recommended by the other Reserve Banks. It might be that 
competitive salaries in New York had risen faster than elsewhere 
thr 
oughout the country. In any event, however, the aggregate increases 
Recommended by the New York Bank were probably at least 60 per cent 
heater than for the remainder of the System, on average. 

43^3 
-19-
Chairman Martin commented that he thought President Hayes 
would agree that there had been a considerable improvement in salary 
administration during the time that the latter had been in the System, 
and President Hayes agreed. 
Mr. Murphy noted that salary administration was a popular 
subject of discussion throughout the country in universities and in 
industry. 
It was in his own bank, and in companies with which he 
was familiar. In the New York Reserve Bank he could observe at close 
range the problem as it affected the Federal Reserve System as a whole. 
The Bank was reaping today the benefits of past policies. 
The person-
nel in the Bank today had been brought along under concepts that made 
them consider it desirable to stay with the System. By and large the 
key persons lost had been economists and specialists., But he could 
Predict that the System would start losing personnel from other fields 
a
lso, including operations personnel. 
The System had provided a good 
training ground for personnel concerned with operating aspects of a 
bank; it was vulnerable to personnel demands in the area of automation. 
*n that respect he found it difficult to believe that New York was 
different from any other part of the country. However, the headquarters 
many large companies were situated in New York City, and younger 
m e
n tended to flock there from universities. 
Through various channels, 
inf 
formation was exchanged about salaries and the potential for further 
p
r o g r e s s < 
I n the past many persons had been retained by the Federal 
p 
eserve because of their loyalty to the System, but he doubted whether 
( 

4324 
-20-
that would continue to be as great an influence. Monetary rewards 
were becoming increasingly important. Loyalty to organizations 
would still be a factor to some extent, but the Federal Reserve 
could not expect loyalty to make up for a large gap in the salary 
scale. If he was not mistaken, a new era was developing, and he 
would urge the Federal Reserve to make sure that its policies were 
reappraised and kept flexible so that at a future date the Federal 
Reserve staff would continue to be of as high a caliber as at present. 
Mr. Murphy went on to say that even if the New York Bank was 
not essentially different from other Reserve Banks, the community 
atmosphere in which it operated was somewhat different. He would 
a
ttempt to update the program of salary administration that had 
brought the Federal Reserve to where it was today, so as to build 
f
°r the future. 
Mr. Forman said he felt that the most important asset a 
company could have was its young organization. Companies in his 
a r
ea were competing for the same kind of talent as companies in 
New York City, and he knew of instances where men had been lost 
r
ecently from New York City to the Rochester area. Younger persons 
W e
r e particularly interested in such things as stock option plans 
a n
d bonuses. 
In view of the discussions by New York directors over 
past several months, he had endeavored to obtain some informa-
t:i
-
0
n on up-State salaries. He found that the presidents of even 
he smaller banks in Buffalo, Syracuse, and Rochester had base 

43;,tr 
-21-
salaries of around $60,000, plus bonuses, plus stock option privileges, 
and that such banks were seeking younger talent aggressively. 
He 
agreed with Mr. Murphy: 
a feeling prevailed that, while affiliation 
with a good organization was desirable, compensation was a key factor. 
It was a vital element in recruiting. Younger persons sought by the 
Reserve Bank would want to know about the goals to which they could 
aspire. If the Federal Reserve desired to remain as strong in the 
next 25 years as in the past half-century, it must face up to the 
i 
competitive situation. 
Chairman Case commented that the directors of the Buffalo 
Branch had considered the salary question at their last meeting and 
had passed a resolution endorsing strongly the need for a flexible 
salary administration policy within reasonable overall limitations. 
He would turn over to Governor Mitchell a letter from the Buffalo 
directors that he had been asked to pass along to the Board. 
Cha irman Case then turned to the question of the salary of 
t h
e First Vice President, noting that a salary of $55,000 had been 
r
ecommended. He pointed out that the salary of the First Vice 
^resident in effect constituted a ceiling against which the salaries 
o f
 officers just below that rank were likely to be bumping fairly 
°
u
on. To some extent that was already the case, at least in terms 
the salaries that the New York directors considered appropriate. 
Th 
n e
 directors also had in mind the nature of the First Vice Presi-
Kent's responsibilities and the role that he was called upon to play 

-22-
in the abs 
ence of the President. They felt that there was too great 
a disparity between the salaries of the President and the First Vice 
President. 
President Hayes commented that the losses of top personnel 
had been relatively few, and the turnover quite low, although some 
°f the people lost were key men. But he wanted to stress that the 
turnover in key younger staff members was high. They were looking 
ahead, and it was what they saw on the horizon that counted. 
Governor Brimmer commented that to a large extent the thinking 
°f the Board's Committee and that of the New York directors seemed to 
run parallel. More than anything else, it was the problem at New York 
that led to the Leonard study. As he looked at the matter, it would 
seem highly justifiable to approach the question of restructuring the 
r
anges on a System-wide basis. While the New York directors felt that 
they were beset by problems that had accumulated over the past few 
years, other Reserve Banks were in much the same position. He was 
c
onscious of their difficulties, for the Presidents had pressed the 
Board's Committee vigorously. 
Thus, it would be in the interest of 
orderly procedure to go through with the program that was now on 
t r
ack and move into 1968 as the year of coming to grips with the 
pr
°blem on a System basis. 
Governor Brimmer also 
said that he knew most of the officers 
W h o
 had left the New York Bank over the past decade and that he had 
t a
lked with several of them in an effort to ascertain what had 

4327 
-23-
motivated them to leave. In the case of at least one or two who 
had left recently the question of competitive salaries may have 
been at the heart of the situation, but that kind of exposure should 
not be quite so great if the officers could see an orderly restruc-
turing on the horizon. During today's discussion much stress had 
been placed on longer-run goals, and he wondered whether the exposure 
would be considered too great if the procedures that had been men-
tioned were worked through in the coming year. 
President Hayes inquired whether it might be assumed that the 
40 per cent rule did not present a problem, for there was an obvious 
connection. 
Governor Mitchell replied that the Board's Committee had not 
decided what to do about the 40 per cent rule in the case of New York. 
It had not faced up to that problem as yet. 
Governor Brimmer commented that most of the Reserve Banks had 
^
r
iefed the Committee on intended promotions, but in the case of the 
New York Bank there was no such briefing. 
Mr. Hayes replied that on some occasions the New York Bank 
told the Committee fairly specifically what it had in mind. At 
th 
e
 moment it did not have many promotions in mind. The Bank's 
Proposed building program would involve one or two promotions, but 
'hat program had not yet received clearance from the Board. 
Chairman Case referred to the question whether the New York 
a n
k would be seriously inconvenienced if management was able to 

-24-
convey to staff that a study of the salary ranges was under active 
consideration looking toward 1969. He turned to President Hayes, 
who asked Messrs. Bilby and Debs how they would feel about the 
feasibility of living with the present officer salary ranges for 
another year. Mr. Debs described certain technical problems, 
which he assumed could be taken care of, and President Hayes then 
said that if it could be made known that the salary ranges were 
under active study, that probably would go a long way. He would 
hope it did not take all of 1968 to complete the study. He did 
not believe that another survey would change anything very much. 
Mr. Bilby said he would see merit in a rather early announcement 
about the salary ranges, even if only that there was likely to be 
a
 change. He hoped that such an announcement would not have to be 
Withheld until the end of next year. 
Governor Brimmer recalled that several months ago the Board 
had sent a letter to the Reserve Banks suggesting guidelines for 
Preparing salary proposals for the coming year. That looked forward 
t o
 renewed study of the salary ranges, with the thought of its com-
pletion in the late spring or early summer so that a new framework 
^ u l d be established. 
Given the anticipated discussions with the 
Chairmen and with the Presidents, it would take about that much time 
t o
 complete the job. 
On the question of the salary of the First Vice President, 
G
°Vernor Mitchell noted that the New York directors had recommended 

432«) 
-25-
a salary of $55,000, whereas the Board's Committee was recommending 
approval of a salary of $50,000. The Board had not yet acted. 
President Hayes pointed out that the differential between 
the salaries of the top and second officers of the larger New York 
banks was approximately 30 per cent. On the basis of relationships 
between the two top salaries at the Reserve Bank, $55,000 for the 
First Vice President would be more equitable than $50,000. 
Governor Mitchell replied that this came back to the problem 
°f compaction and relationships throughout the System. He added 
that in terms of younger personnel, including economists and data 
Processing staff, he did not think that there was any difference 
whatever in the views of the Board and of the directors. The Federal 
Reserve ought to be as rich in those resources as it could be. The 
Problem of compaction did not appear to lie in that area. 
Rather, 
it occurred when one got into the upper-level salaries. 
Mr. Hayes, referring further to the salary of the First Vice 
^resident, recalled that in making their recommendation the directors 
bad made the point that in the Government there was a relatively 
S m
all spread because the top salaries were so restricted. In the 
c
°mmercial field there was a much wider spread. At the New York 
s
®rve Bank the top was under some compression, properly so. There-
fore, the spread between the two top officers should be considerably 
e s s
 than in the commercial world. 

-26-
Governor Brimmer commented that that was another reason 
why the Board's Committee was encouraging an orderly review of the 
whole salary administration problem, not only the matter of salary 
ranges per se. He noted that one possibility that might be con-
sidered was the appointment of a rather small number of senior vice 
Presidents. 
The parts of the whole picture should be made to fall 
into place. 
Chairman Case said President Hayes had spoken for the direc-
tors in expressing the feeling that there was too wide a disparity 
between the salaries of the New York President and the First Vice 
President, even with the increase that the Board's Committee was 
^commending be approved. The directors hoped that the Board might 
find it possible to reconsider the matter. 
Chai rman Case then inquired whether it would be appropriate 
proceed to a discussion of the New York Reserve Bank's building 
pr
°gram. Members of the Board commented that they had not been 
a w a
r e that the subject was to be discussed at today's meeting, and 
Resident Hayes remarked that he had thought that since the direc-
t o
rs were here today their views would perhaps be useful to the 
°ard. Accordingly, it was agreed to take up the building program. 
**°wever, it was necessary for several members of the Board (all excej 
Pernors Maisel, Mitchell, and Sherrill) to withdraw at this point 
e
°ause of previous engagements or travel arrangements. 
President 
Hg 
y e s
 also left the meeting at this point. 

4331 
-27-
Chairman Case recalled that the building program had been 
under consideration for several years.. The Board had given the 
New York Bank permission to acquire the site for an annex building 
and restricted authority to liquidate outstanding leases. 
However, 
in light of prospective developments, particularly in regard to 
automation, the Board had expressed some doubt whether extra space 
was needed, at least in the longer run, and that was where the 
matter apparently now rested. The directors understood, according 
to reports from Mr. Bilby, that the subject had been gone into at 
some length with members of the Board and the Board's staff. 
What-
ever the outcome of automation, however, the sheer volume of opera-
tions that the New York Bank was called upon to perform convinced 
the directors that, as far as could be foreseen, the Reserve Bank 
W a
s going to need extra space. The Bank could not be expanded 
laterally, and the site that had been acquired provided the only 
°PP0rtunity for a sideways move. The present annex building could 
ke sold, and that would reduce the cost of the new annex. If the 
directors were correct in their view about the need for additional 
s
Pace, it would be desirable to proceed soon with the annex building, 
f°r construction costs were rising continually. 
Mr. Bilby commented on the extent to which leases had been 
liquidated under the limited authorization given to the Reserve 
following which Chairman Case suggested that even if the 
p 
eserve Bank's estimates were wrong and it was later found that a 

4332 
-28-
need for the annex space did not exist, the Bank would have a 
highly salable building that would be increasing in value. 
So 
it seemed to the directors that the Bank ought to move as fast 
as possible with the building program. Such action would be in 
accord with the estimates of probable space needs, but if the 
estimates turned out to be wrong, the Bank could recoup whatever 
outlay was involved. 
Governor Maisel recalled that the Board had requested 
suggestions and comments from the Federal Reserve Banks on proposed 
guidelines for construction programs. At present the Board was 
awaiting the receipt of comments from the Reserve Banks. 
Mr. Bilby said that the New York Bank's views had already 
b
een submitted. The Bank's letter indicated that it agreed generally 
*ith the guidelines. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the thinking embodied in 
n e
 guidelines was that expansion should be provided for in new 
structures and that temporarily excess space be leased out. As 
t o space required for specialized purposes, the thought was to 
°btain fairly careful estimates because opportunities for modifica-
t* i 
°
n W e
r e fairly limited. 
In any event, he felt that the question 
of 
Rebuilding program at New York was close to being resolved. 
The 
S t" rl 
d
y of that program had been helpful to the Board since it had led 
t o 
the formulation of the guidelines and the preparation of a paper 
proj ections of space needs. Their availability should result in 

mm 
4333 
. -p 
-29-
s ..•-. 
more effective analysis of space needs by Federal Reserve Banks. 
% 
Chairman Case commented that perhaps the building program 
t'Vr ' 
could be discussed further at the time of the Chairmen's Conference 
and Governor Mitchell replied that it might well have been disposed 
of by that time so far as a Board authorization was concerned. 
