MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 28, 1972-

1101 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 28, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics \J 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and 
San Francisco on April 20; by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
April 25; and by the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, 
Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas on April 27, 1972, of the rates 
0r* discounts and advances in their existing schedules was approved 
Unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
sent to those Banks. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present 

1102 
4/28/72 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of The First 
Pennsylvania Banking and Trust Company, Bala-Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, to 
issue capital notes. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on April 17, 1972, of the application of Charter Bankshares Corporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of The First State Bank in 
St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, Florida. Copies of the order and a 
dissenting statement by Governor Robertson are attached under Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on April 17, 1972, of the application of Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, 
Washington, to retain shares of Coast Mortgage Company, Seattle, 
Washington. Copies of the order and a dissenting statement by Governors 
Robertson and Sheehan are attached under Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial 
on April 17, 1972, of the application of Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, 
Washington, to acquire shares of Far West Securities Co., Spokane, 
Washington. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Jacob Schmidt 
Company and American Bancorporation, Inc., both of St. Paul, Minnesota, 
to acquire shares of American State Bank of Moorhead, Moorhead, Minnesota, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy 
of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 

1103 
4/28/72 
-2-
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
April 27, 1972, the Board unanimously approved a letter to the Office of 
Management and Budget regarding proposed State legislation relating to 
costs and practices in connection with real estate settlements. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room at 
3:45 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 

1104 
4/28/72 
-2-
Same-day substitution rule. On April 26, 1972, the Board 
discussed a staff proposal contained in a memorandum from the Division 
of Research and Statistics dated April 24, 1972, that would modify 
the same-day substitution rule. At that time the Board agreed in 
principle to the proposed modification, but decided to delay action on 
the proposal until a time when stock prices were moving upward. 
During today's discussion it was noted that the stock market 
appeared to be exhibiting stronger upward tendencies, and that it had 
closed today with an increase of several points. 
Ensuing discussion 
indicated that the Board believed today was a good time to take action 
on the proposal. There followed comments regarding the draft press 
release announcing the proposal, and several minor changes in the 
draft were agreed upon. 
The Board then approved by unanimous vote the publication for 
comment of the proposal to amend Regulation G (Securities Credit by 
Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers), Regulation T (Credit by 
Brokers and Dealers), and Regulation U (Credit by Banks for the Purpose 
of Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stocks), to modify the same-day 
substitution rule by removing the same-day substitution privilege from 
accounts with an equity status of less than 40 per cent. The press 
release, to include the changes that had been agreed upon, was also 
approved unanimously. 
Attached under Item No. 7 are copies of the 
press re lease and of the notice published in the Federal Register. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
1105 
Item No. 1 
4/28/72 
A D D R E S S 
O r n C I A t . 
C a R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 28, 1972 
Board of Directors 
The First Pennsylvania Banking 
and Trust Company 
Bala-Cynwyd, Pennsylvania 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $30,000,000 
in subordinated capital notes by The First Pennsylvania Banking and 
Trust Company, Bala-Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, in the form submitted to 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. Approval is granted with 
the understanding that the sale of these capital debentures will be 
consummated within six-months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A0 Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary 

1 1 < 1 6 
Item No. 2 
4/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CHARTER BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Charter Bankshares Corporation, Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The First State Bank in St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, 
Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant has eight banks controlling aggregate deposits 
of $263 million and is the fourteenth largest banking organization 
in Florida, controlling 1.8 per cent of deposits in commercial banks 
1/ 
in the State. 
Acquisition of Bank ($9 million in deposits) by 
Applicant would increase its percentage share of deposits by less 
than one-tenth of 1 per cent, would not change Applicant's ranking among 
banking organizations in Florida, and would not result in a significant 
increase in the concentration of banking resources in Florida. 
P~¥anking~data are as of June~3Q, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through February 29, 
1972. 

1107 
-2-
Bank is located in St. Petersburg, as is Applicant's lead 
bank, The First National Bank in St. Petersburg, St. Petersburg, 
Florida ("St. Petersburg Bank"). The St. Petersburg Bank has deposits 
of $161 million and is the largest bank in the St. Petersburg area, 
while Bank has only 1 per cent of area deposits and is the smallest 
bank in the area. 
Though both St. Petersburg Bank and Bank are located in 
St. Petersburg, there is little existing competition between them. 
Bank was chartered in 1967 as a successor to Southern Bank of St. 
Petersburg, which had been placed in receivership by the Federal 
Deposit Insurance Corporation. At the request of the FDIC, the 
St. Petersburg Bank sent personnel to assist in closing Southern 
Bank of St. Petersburg and these personnel became the management 
staff of Bank. While a previous affiliation was technically 
broken when Applicant acquired St. Petersburg Bank, the close 
relationship engendered by this situation has continued to the present 
time and accounts in great measure for the lack of competition 
between the two institutions. Even in the absence of this relation-
ship, due to the great disparity in size between the two banks, the 
Presence of several intervening banks, and Florida's restrictive 
Ranching laws, there would be little probability of substantial 
competition developing in the future. 

9 
- 4 -
While the premium to be paid by Applicant is substantial, 
it does not appear that its payment will adversely affect Applicant's 
financial condition nor that it is being paid to purchase monopoly 
power. The acquisition of Bank would not give Applicant a dominant 
position in the St. Petersburg area since Applicant would control only 
a little over 19 per cent of area deposits, with the second ranking 
banking organization having more than 17 per cent of the deposits 
and the third ranking banking organization having close to 13 per cent 
of the market. Further, two medium-sized banks located in St. Petersburg 
are subsidiaries of the second and third largest banking organizations 
in the State of Florida. 
Considerations relating to the financial condition, managerial 
resources, and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank 
are consistent with approval of the application. Considerations relat-
ing to the convenience and needs of the community to be served lend 
some weight toward approval of the acquisition since Applicant, through-
Bank, proposes to offer trust services, a churge-card plan and con-
struction loans, which services Bank does not presently offer. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
Would be in the public interest and the application should be approved. 

1109 
- 4 -
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 28, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
if Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Maisel, Brimmer and Sheehan. Voting against this action: 
°vernor Robertson. 

1110 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
In a case where, as here, prior to the time a bank holding 
company files with this Board an application seeking approval of a 
proposed acquisition of an additional bank, it appears that the wife 
of the chairman and president of the holding company has purchased 
95 per cent of the stock of that bank (apparently on behalf of the 
holding company, to which she almost immediately offered to sell it) 
and paid a huge premium of 99 per cent based on book value, and 
13-1/2 per cent based on deposits, it behooves one to take an 
especially hard look at the whole proposal. 
Such a look at this proposal reveals that while there is 
little or no competition between the Applicant's lead bank, the 
largest bank in the St. Petersburg market, and the bank to be 
acquired, this is not surprising even though their service areas 
overlap. In view of their present affiliation, one could hardly 
e*pect competition to exist between the two banks. However, a 
Previous affiliation between the same two banks was broken when the 
holding company acquired control of the lead bank, and it seems 
likely that the affiliation would be broken again if this application 
^ere denied. In any event, in the absence of some evidence that 
Public benefits will flow from the acquisition, and I find none, I 
v°uld not foreclose disaffiliation and future competition by approval 
the application. 

Item No. 3 
4/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MARINE BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Retention of Coast Mortgage Company 
Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
has applied for the Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225 4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to retain all of 
1/ 
the voting shares of Coast Mortgage Company, Seattle, Washington. 
Notice of the application affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views was duly published. The time 
for filing comments and views has expired and all received have 
been considered, including those presented orally and in writing 
in connection with a Board hearing on November 8, 1971, pertaining 
fco mortgage banking in general, and this application in particular. 
Applicant owns The National Bank of Commerce of Seattle 
("Bank"), whose deposits of $1.2 billion represent 20.4 per cent ^ 
the total commercial bank deposits in the State of Washington. 
Bank is engaged in the business of making mortgage loans for its 
account. In 1970, it originated 2.3 per cent of all real estate 
3/ 
Mortgages in those service areas 
in which its subsidiary, Coast 
Mortgage Company, also competes. 
4/ Such shares were purchased by Marine Bancorporation in March, 
l969, and, under the provisions of section 4(a)(2) of the Act, 
not be retained beyond December 31, 1980, without Board approval. 
Deposit data as of June 30, 1971. 
f./ Approximated by the county boundaries of King, Grays Harbor, 
^atcom, Snohomish, Kitsap, Thurston, and Clark Counties in the 
State of Washington. 

• 
, 
• 
•
— 
1112 
- 2 -
Coast Mortgage Company operates a mortgage banking 
business in western Washington. It accounted for 5.8 per cent of 
all mortgage loan originations during 1970 in the seven counties in 
which it competes with Bank. On the basis of its mortgage servicing 
Portfolio of $547 million, Coast Mortgage Company is the 33rd largest 
4/ 
Mortgage banking company in the country. 
Its mortgage servicing 
Portfolio has increased 20 per cent since 1968, the last full year 
its operation as an independent mortgage company. 
The Board has considered a report of the Department of 
Justice which concluded that the acquisition was anticompetitive 
that Applicant had not demonstrated public benefits sufficient to 
satisfy the standards under § 4(c)(8) of the Act. The Department 
recommended that Coast "either be reconstituted as an independent 
Competitor or sold to a bank holding company not currently engaged 
mortgage origination in the areas served by Coast." Applicant 
V a s given an opportunity to reply and did so. Applicant's response 
asserts that there is no existing competition between Bank and Coast 
atlci that the public benefits resulting from the acquisition have been 
Produced and demonstrated by almost three years of actual operation. 
The Board regards the standards under § 4(c)(8) for retention 
of shares to be the same as the standards for a proposed acquisition, 
the time of the acquisition, both Coast Mortgage Company and Bank 
engaged in the business of mortgage loan originations, and there 
as of June 30, 1971. 

1113 
-3-
was existing competition between the two institutions to the extent 
that their markets overlapped. The elimination of this competition 
constitutes an adverse effect as contemplated under § 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and standing alone, would require denial of the instant application. 
The major area affected by the acquisition is Seattle and 
its environs,the economic center of western Washington and the 
largest city in the State. At the time of the acquisition, and to a 
greater extent thereafter, the economy of the area was depressed. A 
reasonable expectation of the affiliation, and the proven fact, was 
that Applicant would improve Coast's ability to accept from financially 
distressed builders and other mortgage debtors land and improvements 
for orderly liquidation, thereby preventing foreclosure, forced sales 
and deficiency judgments which would, in most cases, have resulted in 
financial disaster to the mortgage debtors. Another reasonable 
expectation, and proven fact, was that the affiliation would also 
improve the ability of Coast to expand the scope of its mortgage lending 
and expand its services into new lines, such as college housing and 
Public housing projects for minority, elderly, and low-income groups. 
The Board concludes that these potential public benefits outweighed the 
adverse effect in competition resulting from the affiliation at the 
time of the acquisition. 

1114 
-2-
The Board's review of the record of the affiliation indicates 
that the potential benefits have continued to outweigh such adverse 
effect. The Board believes that the affiliation is sufficiently 
likely to continue to produce public benefits in the foreseeable 
future so that, on balance,- divestiture would- be contrary to the 
public interest. 
In addition to its mortgage loan activity, Coast has been 
engaged in both insurance and land development activities. However, 
Applicant has withdrawn from the proposal those aspects of the 
application relating to insurance, indicating an intent to file a 
new application for permission to engage in insurance activities. 
Applicant has committed itself to refrain from any future land 
development activities and, with respect to those land developments 
in which it presently has an interest, to dispose of same at the 
earliest practical time, and keep the Board advised of progress with 
respect thereto. 
Based on the record herein, the application is approved on 
condition that Applicant terminates its current land development 
activities at the earliest practical time and undertakes no new 
Project in this line of activity. This approval is subject further 
to the Board's authority to require reports by, and make examinations 

1115 
- 4 -
of, holding companies and their subsidiaries and to require such 
modification or termination of the activities of a holding company or 
any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
thereof. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 17, 1972, 
released May 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
{SEAL] 
___ 
... 
. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
aane, Maisel and Brimmer. Voting against this action: Governors 
°bertson and Sheehan. 

1116 
DISSENTING STATEMENT 
OF 
GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND SHEEHAN 
Applicant is a one bank holding company which owns National 
Bank of Commerce, Seattle, Washington ("NBC"), the second largest bank 
headquartered in the State. NBC has total deposits of $1.3 billion 
and holds over 26 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in King 
County (Seattle). It operates more than 100 banking offices throughout 
the State, including a main office and 29 branches in Seattle. NBC 
is extensively engaged in the business of mortgage lending and in 1968, 
the year before the subject acquisition took place, originated 4.7 
per cent (by value) of all mortgages recorded in the Seattle area. 
Coast Mortgage Company is the leading mortgage banking company 
in the State of Washington and the 33rd largest in the United States. 
All of Coast's 12 offices are located in western Washington, including 
three in King County where NBC is headquartered. Its mortgage origi-
nations in 1968 represented approximately 6.8 per cent of mortgages 
recorded in the Seattle area. In the year prior to the acquisition, 
Coast and NBC combined originated 11.5 per cent of the total volume of 
mortgages recorded in the Seattle area, and hence, it is clear that 
they were substantial competitors. 
The Applicant in this case is one of the leading banking 
organizations in Washington, both in terms of local market share and 
statewide significance. Coast is not only the leading mortgage banking 
company in the State, but competes for mortgage originations (particularly 

1117 
-2-
8ingle family residential mortgages) in the same service area as 
Applicant. The existing competition between the two institutions was, 
as noted, substantial prior to the acquisition; its elimination as 
a result of the acquisition not only represents a significant lessening 
of competition in the field of mortgage originations in King County, 
but a probable lessening of future competition between the two organi-
zations throughout the State. 
Had Applicant sought to acquire a direct competitor, the 
Board would undoubtedly have denied this proposal if it applied (as 
W e assume it would) the same criteria it adopted in prior mortgage 
banking cases. (See, e.g., applications of First Tulsa Bancorporation, 
lnc., 1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 317; U. S. Bancorp, 1972 Federal 
Reserve Bulletin 177; BTNB Corporation, 1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
70•) In all those cases the Board expressed its concern with the 
ellmination of existing and potential competition and the concentration 
o f economic resources in given areas. This application, as pointed 
° u t by the Department of Justtice, involves the same types of likely 
Averse effects. 
The fact that Applicant here seeks Board approval to 
^tain ownership of a direct competitor acquired after June 30, 1968, 
before supervisory approval was required by law, should produce 
n° different result. As pointed out by the majority, the standards 
f°r evaluating the legality of the acquisition are the same in each 
Stance. 

Given the significant adverse competitive effects and 
concentration of resources presented here, those benefits 
1/ 
which may ensue to the public from Applicant's retention of Coast 
are 
not the type of benefits which—in the long run—outweigh the adverse 
effects of this acquisition. What public benefits Applicant does 
claim from its acquisition of Coast are short run benefits of a type 
that can be quickly dissipated. The real and lasting public benefits— 
those which Congress specifically directed the Board's attention to 
in § 4(c)(8)—greater convenience, increased competition, or gains 
in efficiency, are either absent in this proposal or so insignificant 
a s to be clearly outweighed, in our judgment, by the anticompetitive 
consequences found when two such strong and important competitors in 
The majority's reliance upon post-acquisition evidence as 
the basis for finding public benefits from the acquisition is, in our 
view, misplaced. In F.T.C. v. Procter & Gamble Company, the Commission 
held that: 
Along with the Department of Justice, we doubt there are any 
mP°rtant public benefits to be gained by the continued control of 
°ast by Applicant. Both Applicant's lead bank, The National Bank 
Commerce of Seattle and Coast are substantial institutions, well 
to obtain borrowing on favorable terms. The Bank has both 
he resources and the ability to expand its mortgage loan operations 
thus become a more significant competitor in mortgage banking 
ithout retaining a large Washington firm such as Coast. 

1119 
- 4 -
"...the admission of post-acquisition data is proper 
only in the unusual case in which the structure of the 
market has changed radically since the merger... If post-
acquisition data are to be allowed any broader role...a 
respondent, so long as the merger is the subject of an 
investigation or proceeding, may deliberately refrain from 
anti-competitive conduct—may sheathe, as it were, the 
market power conferred by the merger—and build instead a 
record of good behavior...until eventually the proceeding 
...may terminate in the respondent's favor only because 
his good-conduct evidence has been considered persuasive. 
At that point, the respondent is free to take the wraps 
off the market power conferred by the merger. 
2/ 
Thus, at best, Applicant's claim and the Board's finding that the public 
benefits derived from approximately three years of Applicant's operation 
of Coast suggest only that the short-run benefits from the acquisition 
outweigh the immediate adverse effects. Board approval of this 
acquisition now permits this Applicant, we fear, to exercise a market 
power prejudicial to the public interest and reverse whatever temporary 
benefits to the public may have flowed from its recent operation of Coast 
Believing that denial would promote greater competition 
in the origination of mortgages in the Seattle market and thus 
produce public benefits, we would deny the application. 
2/~ CCH Trade Reg. R e p ^ T T ^ ^ S Transfer Binder, 1116, 673, at 
P. 21, 574. 
May l, 1972 

I! 
1120 
Item No. 4 
4/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MARINE BANCORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Far West Securities Co. 
Marine Bancorporation, Seattle, Washington, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) 
of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to 
acquire all of the voting shares of Far West Securities Co., 
Spokane, Washington ("Far West"). Notice of the application, 
affording opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views, has been duly published (36 Federal Register 23651). 
The time for filing comments and views has expired, and all 
received have been considered. 
Applicant controls the National Bank of Commerce 
("Bank"), Seattle, the second largest bank in Washington. As 
of June 30, 1971, Bank's total deposits of $1.2 billion represented 
20.4 per cent of all commercial bank deposits in the State. In 
Spokane County, Bank operates two branches which originated 
approximately $435,000 in mortgage loans in 1970. Applicant 
also controls Coast Mortgage Company-^("Coast"), the 33rd largest 
mortgage banking firm in the nation, with a mortgage servicing 
portfolio of $547 million.^ Coast presently operates twelve offices 
17 The Board has approved the application of Marine Bancorporation 
to retain its ownership of shares of Coast Mortgage Company in a 
separate Order also dated April 17, 1972. 
2/ Servicing portfolio as of June 30, 1971. 

1121 
- 4 -
located in western Washington, including offices in the first, 
third, and fourth largest cities in the State. Coast has no 
office in Spokane, the second largest city in Washington. 
Far West operates two offices in Spokane County 
(the relevant market). Far West is the fifteenth largest mortgage 
banking firm in the State and the second largest in the relevant 
market, based on originations. In 1970, Far West originated 
approximately $17 million in mortgage loans, constituting 9.0 
Per cent of the total volume of mortgages recorded by institutions 
in Spokane County, As of December 31, 1970, Far West serviced 
a mortgage loan portfolio of approximately $30 million. 
Bank is not a significant source of mortgage funds in 
fche Spokane market. Its two branches in Spokane County originate 
approximately .002 per cent of the total mortgage loans filed in 
that County.- Coast operates only in western Washington and 
originates no mortgages in the Spokane market. Consummation of 
the proposed acquisition therefore would appear not to foreclose 
existing competition. 
Bank is prohibited by the "home office protection" pro-
visions of Washington branching law from opening a branch office 
the City of Spokane. Nevertheless, there are other avenues 
entry into the Spokane mortgage market open to Applicant. 
^°ast possesses both the resources and the incentive to enter 

-2-
1122 
this market de novo* Its operation of offices in three of the 
four largest cities in the State make it a likely candidate for 
entry into Spokane, the second largest city in the State. More-
over, Coast's expertise and access to institutional investors would 
enable Applicant to surmount whatever barriers other bank holding 
companies might encounter in entering the Spokane mortgage market 
de novo. Such entry by Coast is preferable to its acquisition 
of the second largest mortgage originator in Spokane. To the 
extent that consummation of the proposed acquisition would eliminate 
the likelihood of de novo entry by Coast, the acquisition would 
have an adverse effect on potential competition. 
The Board concludes that the public benefits to be 
derived from the proposed acquisition do not outweigh the 
probable adverse effects indicated above. Applicant claims 
that it can provide Far West with larger lines of credit that 
would enable Far West to bid competitively on larger loans and 
on specialized loans involving housing for disadvantaged groups. 
While the acquisition of a mortgage company by a bank holding 
company could have the effect of strengthening the company in 
certain markets, it appears certain that such increased ability 
and service, if it came from a bank holding company not now 
competing or not likely to compete in the market, x/ould have 
a substantially more desirable impact on the public interest. 

1123 
- 4 -
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has concluded that the public interest factors 
the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) are not favor-
able to the requested determination and do not outweigh possible adverse 
effects, and that the request should be denied. Accordingly, the 
application is hereby denied. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
April 17, 1972, 
released May 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
4/ Voting for this action: Chairman 
Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer and 
Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Sheehan. 

1124 
Item No. 5 
4/28/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
JACOB SCHMIDT COMPANY AND AMERICAN BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Jacob Schmidt Company and American Bancorporation, Inc., 
both of St. Paul, Minnesota (hereinafter jointly referred to as 
"Applicant"), are bank holding companies within the meaning of the 
Bank Holding Company Act and have applied for the Board's approval 
under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) for American 
Bancorporation to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less 
directors' qualifying shares) of American State Bank of Moorhead, 
Moorhead, Minnesota ("Bank"). Jacob Schmidt Company, which owns 57.8 
Per cent of American Bancorporation, Inc.'s outstanding voting stock, 
would acquire indirect control of Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
®nd views has expired. The Board has considered the applications and 
a H comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1042(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
million, representing 2.2 per cent of the total commercial bank 
j 
ePosits in the State „ and is tike fourth largest banking organization 

1125 
- 10 -
and bank holding company in Minnesota.-^ Applicant's acquisition 
of Bank ($22 million in deposits) would increase Applicant's share 
of deposits in the State by 0.2 percentage points, without changing 
its ranking within the State. 
Bank is the fifth largest of the 22 banking organizations 
in the Fargo, North Dakota-Moorhead, Minnesota SMSA, the relevant 
banking market, and controls 6.9 per cent of deposits in that 
market. The three largest banks in the market are subsidiaries of 
Northwest Bancorporation and First Bank System, Inc., the two largest 
banking organizations in Minnesota and North Dakota, and control 31.5 
and 16.1 per cent of market deposits, respectively. Applicant's 
subsidiary located closest to Bank is approximately 240 miles 
distant; it appears that consummation of the transaction would not 
eliminate existing competition. On the facts of record, notably, 
the distances involved, the number of banks in the intervening areas 
between Bank and Applicant's subsidiaries, and Minnesota's prohibitive 
branching law, there appears little likelihood that significant 
competition between Bank and Applicant would develop in the future. 
On the other hand, approval may strengthen competition by introducing 
a new banking organization into the market. The Board concludes, 
therefore, that consummation of the proposed acquisition would not 
adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
1/ Banking data are as of June 30, 1971, and reflect holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through March 31, 1972. 

1126 
- 10 -
Bank appears to be satisfactorily serving the financial 
needs of the community; however, affiliation with Applicant would 
allow Bank to expand the services it now offers to the community 
to include trust and estate planning, consumer instalment financing, 
real estate and mobile home financing, financial counseling, and 
farm management services. Affiliation with Applicant would increase 
the lending capability of Bank through participation arrangements 
with Applicant's present subsidiary banks. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend 
weight for approval. 
Considerations relating to financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects as they relate to Applicant, its subsidiary banks, 
and Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory. Management expertise 
to be made available to Bank by Applicant lends weight toward approval 
of the applications# 
It is the Board's judgment that consumption of 
the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 

1127 
- 4 -
or by the Federal Reserve Banlc of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" 
A P R 
2 , 8 
1 9 7 2 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Daane and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, 
Maisel and Brimmer. 

1128 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
• F t h e 
4 / 2 8 / 7 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E B S I 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 28, 1972 
Mr. Dwight A. Ink 
Assistant Director for 
Executive Management 
Office of Management and Budget 
Executive Office Building 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Ink: 
This refers to your letter of April 10, 1972, 
asking for comments or suggestions with respect to certain ^ 
proposals of the Veterans Administration regarding suggested 
State legislation relating to costs and practices in connec-
tion with real estate settlements. 
The Board has no comments or suggestions to offer. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 7 
4/28/72 
For immediate release 
April 28, 197 2 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
proposed a technical change in its margin regulations that would 
improve the quality of stock market credit. The proposed change 
would strengthen the equity position of low-margin accounts whenever 
offsetting sales and purchases of stock collateral are made on the 
same day. Comment on the proposal should be submitted to the Board 
by June 2. 
The proposal, which would affect about 7 per cent of all 
margin customers, would end use of the so-called "same-day substi-
tution" rule in accounts with an equity status of less than 40 per 
cent. The present same-day substitution rule would continue to apply 
in accounts with an equity status of 40 per cent or more. 
Under the "same-day substitution" rule, customers with 
accounts below the initial margin requirement are presently permitted 
to substitute one security for another in their accounts through off-
setting purchases and sales made on the same clay. Presently no margin 
customer is required to put up any additional margin unless he buys 
more securities than lie sells on that day. This practice makes it 
possible for customers with undermnrgined accounts to continue 
trading for extended periods of time without putting up additional 
equity. 
Federal Reserve margin requirements establish the minimum 
down payment that must be made to purchase margin securities. Under 

1130 
-
the present 55 per cent requirement, a purchaser must pay 55 per cent 
of the price of a security and may obtain credit for the remaining 
45 per ccnt. 
Today's proposal would amend the Board's regulations 
governing extensions of credit by brokers and dealers (Regulation T) 
and loans by banks and other lenders (Regulations U and G, respec-
tively) for the purpose of purchasing or carrying stocks registered 
on a national exchange or named in the Board's over-the-counter 
margin list. 
The technical change proposed today will improve the 
quality of stock market credit and is in accord with the Board's 
legal responsibility to prevent the excessive use of credit to 
purchase or carry securities. 
A copy of the proposal is attached. 
-0-

• FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR Parts 207, 220, 221] 
[Regs. G, T, and U] 
SECURITIES CREDIT TRANSACTIONS 
Same-Day Substitutions 
The Board of Governors proposes to amend Parts 207, 220, 
end 221 in order to require the deposit of additional margin in 
connection with purchases and sales of securities executed on the 
ocrae day, in margin accounts whose net equity status ie less than -
e percentage to be determined by the Board and published in the 
Supplements to the regulations. 
la. Section 207.1(j)(2) of Part 207, Securities Credit 
ky Persons other than Banks, Brokers or Dealers, would be amended 
is net forth below: 
* 207.1 — GENERAL RULE 
t: 
-k 
ii 
* 
* 
(j) 
thdrawals and substitutions of co1lateral. 
i 
* 
it 
k 
* 
(2) Snge-dnv substitution of collateral. 
Except as pro-
hibited by 5 207.4(a)(2) in the case of a credit in which the 
Equity ratio is equal to or exceeds the minimum equity ratio C3 
Prescribed in § 207.5 (the Supplement to the -regulation) a'lender 
fray permit a substitution of margin cecurities effected by a 

1132 
- 2 -
purchase and sale on orders executed within the same day: 
Provided, 
That (i) if the proceeds of the sale exceed the total cost of the 
purchase, the credit is reduced by at least an amount equal to the 
retention requirement in respect to the sale less the retention 
requirement in respect to the purchase, or (ii) if the total cost 
t 
of the purchase exceeds the proceeds of the sale, the credit may be 
increased by an amount no greater than the maximum loan value of 
the securities purchased less the maximum loan value of the securities 
sold. If the maximum loan value of the collateral securing the credit 
has become less than the amount of the credit, the amount of the 
credit may nonetheless he increased if there is provided additional 
collateral having .maximum loan value at least equal to the amount 
of increase, or the credit is extended pursuant 'to § 207.4(a). 
b. Paragraph (k) of 5 207.2 would be added as set forth below: 
5 207.2 — DEFINITIONS 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(k) The term equity ratio means the fraction stated as a 
percentage in which the denominator is the current market value of 
the collateral having loan value in respect of the credit and the 
numerator is such current market value minus the amount of the crcdit 
currently owing. 
c. Paragraph (f) of 5 207.5 would be added as set forth below: 
§ 207.5 -- SUTPL5MENT 

" J • 
1133 
* 
* 
* 
v.- 
* 
Klnimure equity ratio. The minimum equity ratio of 
fl credit subject to'§ 207.1 is 40 per cent. 
2a. Paragraph (i) of § 220.2 of Part 220, Credit by Brokers 
and Dealers, would be added as set forth below: 
5 220.2 -» DEFINITIONS 
* 
vY 
* 
-U 
it 
e 
(i) The terra "equity ratio" means the fraction (stated as 
a percentage) in which the denominator is the current market value 
of the collateral having loan value in the customer's general account 
, or special convertible security account and the numerator 
the total 
of (1) ouch current marlict value, minus ( 2) the adjusted debit balance 
of ouch account, plus 
(3) the credit balance in any special miocel-
laneous account of the customer pursuant to Section 220.4(f)(6) into 
which account are entered dividends and amounts withdrawn from the' 
general account pursuant to section 220..3(b)(2). 
* 
* 
-ft 
* 
* 
b. Section 22.0.3(b), (d)(1) and (g) would be amended as set forth below: 
6 220.3 — GENERAL ACCOUNT 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(b) £encraJL_rule. 
(1) (I) If the equity ratio in a general 
account, or special convertible security account, is less than the 
Minimum equity ratio prescribed in § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regula-
tion T) , a creditor shall not effect in such account any transaction 
vhich creates an excess of the adjusted debit balance of such account 

113 
4 -
over the maximum loan value of the securities in such account, or 
increases any such excess, unless in connection therewith the creditor 
obtains, as promptly as possible and in any event before the expiration 
of 5 full business days following the date of such transaction, the 
deposit into such account of cash or securities in such amount that 
t 
the cash deposited plus the loan value of the securities deposited 
equals or exceeds the excess so created or the increase so caused, 
but in no event need the deposit exceed the amount required to make 
the equity ratio in such account equal to the minimum equity rntio 
so prescribed. 
The required deposit may be reduced by the amount of 
cash or securities which otherwise could be withdrawn pursuant to 
the provisions of subparagraph (2) of this paragraph in connection 
with any other transactions in the account on the same day. 
(ii) If the equity ratio in a general account or special 
convertible security account is equal to or more than the minimum 
equity ratio prescribed in 0 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T), . 
or if the account is a special bond account subject to § 220.4(i), 
a creditor shall not effect for or with any customer in such account 
any transaction which, in combination with the other transactions 
effected in such account on the same day, creates an excess of the 
adjusted debit balance of such account over the maximum loan value 
of. the securities in such account, or increases any such excess, 
less in connection therewith the creditor obtains, as promptly as 
un. 

- 10 -
1135 
possible and in any event before the expiration of 5 full business 
days following the dote of such transaction, the deposit into such 
account of cash or securities in such amount that the cosh deposited 
plus the loan value of the securities deposited equals or exceeds the 
excess so created or the increase so caused. 
•A- 
ft 
* 
* 
( 
(<•") Adjusted debit balance. For the purpose of this part, 
the adjusted debit balance of a general account, special bond account 
subject to § 220.4(1), cr special convertible security account shall 
be calculated by taking the sum of the following items: 
Q ) 
the net debit balance, if any, of such account: (after 
the charging of all withdrawals, including withdrawals to the special 
ir.iccellarioous account pursuant to § 220.4(f)(6)); 
it 
* 
v,. 
ir 
(g) Trans net: ions on nlven_d£v. (1) The required deposit, 
under subparagraph (b)(Z)(i) of this section, in o general account 
or cpecial convertible debt security account, in connection with 
transactions on a given day, shall be equal to the amount by which 
the maximum loan value of any securities purchased in such account 
is less than the retention requirement of any securities sold for 
ouch account on ouch day. Such computation may be made at ' 
the closfc of trading on- nuch day and shall be mode 

1136 
- 10 -
exclusive of any deposit of cash, deposit of securities, covering 
transactions or other liquidation that has been effected on ouch day, 
pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b) or (e) of this section, 
in connection with a transaction on a previous day. 
(2) For the purposes of subparagraphs (b)(1)(ii) and (b)(2) 
of thin section, the question of whether or not an excess of the ad-
justed debit balance of a general account, special bond account, or 
special convertible security account over the maximum loan value of 
the securities in such account is created or increased on a gLve.n day 
shall be determined on the basis of all the transactions in the account 
on cuch day exclusive of any deposit of cash, deposit of securities, 
covering transactions, or other liquidation that has been effected on 
cuch day, pursuant to the requirements of paragraphs (b) or (e) of 
this section, in connection with a transaction on a previous day. 
(3) In any cace in vhich an excess so created, or increase 
Ro caused, by transactions on a given day does not exceed $100, the 
creditor need not obtain the deposit, specified therefore in subpara-
graph (b)(1) of this section. 
(4) Any transaction which serves to meet the requirements 
of paragraph (e) of this section or otherwise serves to permit any 
offsetting transaction in an account shall, to that extent, be un-
available to permit any other-transaction in such account. 
(5) For the purposes of this part (Peculation T), if a 
fincurity ban maximum loan value under subparagraph (c)(1) of this 

" 7 ' 
1137 
section in a general account, a sale of the same security (even though 
not the same certificate) in such account shall be deemed to be a long 
ecle and shall not.be deemed to be or treated as a short sale. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
c. A new subparagraph (6) of § 220.4(f) would be added as follows, and the 
present: subparagraphs (6), (7), and (8) renumbered (7), (8), and (9) respect-
ively: 
5 220.4 -- SPECIAL ACCOUNTS 
f 
* 
>V 
* 
* 
vV 
(f) s P O C i a 1 Ml seel la ne ou s_ Accou n t. In a special miscellaneous 
account, a creditor may: 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(6) Receive from or for any customer or pay out or deliver to 
any customer (subject to any other applicable provisions of lav) any divi-
dends withdrov?n from a general account or special convertible debt cecurity 
account pursuant to § 220.6(g)(2), any other withdrawals permitted to be 
toade from such account pursuant to § 220.3(b)(2), and the amount of any 
deposit required pursuant to any rule of a national securities exchange 
or national securities association to which the creditor is subject, or 
cur.tcmarily required by the creditor in connection with the maintenance of 
•uch general account or special convertible security account. 
iV 
* 
"k 
*/c 
Paragraph (i) of § 220.8 (the Supplement to Regulation T) would be 
r'ddcd ae follows: 
5 220.8 
SUPPLEMENT 
* 
-k 
* 
* 
* 
(f.) 
Minimum equity ra11 o. The minimum equity ratio of a general 
Account or special convertible security account subject to § 220*4(j) is 
^ por cont. 

- 8 -
1138 
* 
* 
* 
it 
* 
3a. Section 221.1(c) of Part 221, Credit by Banks for the Purpose of 
Purchasing or Carrying Margin Stock, would be amended ns set forth below: 
§ 221.1 -- GENERAL RULE 
* 
ic 
ie 
ie 
it 
Same-day transactions. (1) Except as provided in 
t 
§ 221.3(r)(i), a bank may in the case of a credit in which the equity 
ratio is equal to or exceeds the minimum equity ratio as prescribed 
in § 221.4 (the Supplement to the regulation) permit a substitution of 
- stock whether margin or non-margin, effected by a purchase and sale on 
orders executed within the same day: Provided, That (i) if the proceeds 
of the sale exceed the total cost of the purchase, the credit is reduced 
by at least an amount equal to the "retention requirement" with respect 
to the nale less the "retention requirement" with respect: to the pur-
chase, or (11) if the total cost of the purchase excecds the proceeds of 
the sale, the credit may be increased by an amount no greater than the 
taaximum loan value of the stock purchased loss the maximum loan value of 
the stock cold. 
If the maximum loan value of the collateral securing the 
credit has become less than the-amount of the crcdit, the amount of the 
credit may nonetheless be increased if there is provided additional 
collateral having caxioum loan value at least equal to the amount of 
the increase. 
C2> For the purpose of this paragraph, the term equity ratio 
ttcona the fraction (stated as a percentage) in which the denominator 

40 
- 10 -
is the current market value of the collateral having loan value in 
respect of the credit and the numerator is such current market value 
minus the amount of the credit currently owing. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
b„ 
Paragraph (f) of 5 221.4 would be added as set forth below: 
< 
§ 221.4 -- SUPPLEMENT 
•k 
-ft 
"k 
* 
fc 
(f) Minimum equity, ratio. The' minimum Ldquity• ratio 6f a credit 
subject to C 221.1 is 40 per cent. 
The purpose of the proposed change in Regulation 7 is to limit 
the "same-day" substitution privilege to margin accounts whose equity status 
is equal to or greater than that which the Board specifies from time to 
time in the light of its statutory responsibility to prevent the cxccssive 
use of credit to purchase or carry securities. Initially this figure 
would be set at 40 per ccnt. 
Under the "same-day" substitution rule, brokers or dealers 
subject to Regulation T (Part 220) are permitted to offset purchases 
and sales executed on a given day to determine the deposit which shall 
be required, or withdrawal which shall be permitted, of cash or secu-
rities in connection with such transactions. 
The practise of permitting 
same-day substitutions on this basis frequently results in low margin 
credit existing for substantial periods of time, in certain accounts. 
Under the proposed rule, margin requirements will apply 
separately to each purchase, and the retention requirement to the 

- 10 -
1140 
proceeds of each sale, in an account whose equity status is below the 
ratio specified by tho Board. The broker or dealer will be required 
to compute the account once only, however, at the close of the day's 
trading, as he does at present. 
The computation will be made by applying the current margin 
requirement to the total cost of purchases for the day, and the reten-
t 
tlon requirement to the total proceeds of sales for such day. For 
example, under present margin requirements of 55% and retention require-
ment of 30%, if total purchases are $10,000, and total sales are also 
$10,000 in an account below the specified minimum equity ratio a 
margin deposit of $5,500 would be required with respect to the purchases, 
nnd $3,000 of the sales proceeds (100% minus 70%) could be credited 
against that deposit, leaving a balance due from the customer of. 
$2,500 in cash (or securities with a current market value of $5,555). 
The additional deposit would never have to be more than enough to 
bring the net equity status of the account up to the minimum ratio 
cpocified by the Board, however. 
In computing the equity ratio of an account to determine 
whether it meets the minimum equity ratio test, the amount: which 
hao bo on withdrawn and credited to a special miscellaneous account 
Uftder ooction 220.4(f)(6) would be treated as if it had not been 
Withdrawn from the general account or special convertible debt 
Security account. 

- 11 -
1 1 - 1 1 
Clarifying changes would be made in §§ 220.3(d) and 220.4(f) 
to make it clear that amounts permitted to be withdrawn from a general 
account or special convertible debt security account must be with-
drawn from such account before the net debit balance of the account 
ic determined for the purpose of computing the adjusted debit balance 
of such account, and that only amounts permitted to be so withdrawn 
fran such account, or which are required to be deposited pursuant 
to a rule of a national securities exchange, or national securities 
j 
. 
' 
abbpclotion, or customary maintenance requirement of the creditor, 
may be credited to the special miscellaneous account for purposes 
„ 
\ 
of the preceding paragraph. 
The companion changes proposed in Parts 207 and 22.1 (Regu-
lations G and U) ore to conform those regulations in order to eliminate 
tho fame day substitution rule as above described in regard to credits 
whose not equity ratio is les3 than the figure deemed appropriate by 
the Board. 
To cid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Washington, 
1), c. 
2055i, to be received not later than June 2, 1972. 
Such material 
will be made available for inspection and copying upon request, except 
eg provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's rules regarding availability 
I 
of information. 
I 
' 
