MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 1, 1972 

-
e 
1 9 8 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, August 1, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 12:00 p.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr, Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Key, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of First National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, 
New York, for permission to continue to hold shares of FNCB Financial 
Services Ltd., Hong Kong, after the latter issues certain debt obligations 

J L S & 
8/1/72 
-2-
and acquires shares of Citicorp Financial Services Sendirian Berhad, 
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Marine Midland 
Bank-Western, Buffalo, New York, for permission to organize a corporation 
under section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act to be known as Marine 
Midland Western International Corporation and to be located in Buffalo, 
New York. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant, which transmitted 
a preliminary permit, is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Texas Commerce 
Bank National Association, Houston, Texas, for permission to establish 
a branch in London, England. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on July 20, 1972, of the application of NCNB Corporation, Charlotte, 
North Carolina, to acquire shares of C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Inc., 
Greenville, South Carolina. Attached under Item No. 4 is a copy of the 
order, along with a copy of a dissenting statement of Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on July 20, 1972, of the application of NCNB Corporation, Charlotte, 
North Carolina, to acquire shares of Trust Company of Florida, Orlando, 
Florida. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 

1
9
8
5 
8/1/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Ribso, Inc., 
Rock Island, Illinois, to retain shares of Rock Island Bank and Trust 
Company, Rock Island, Illinois, which had been acquired without prior 
Board approval, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
First City Bank and Trust Company. On July 25, 1972, the Board 
discussed the application of First City Bank and Trust Company, Hopkins-
ville, Kentucky, to issue capital notes. Several members of the Board 
expressed concern about the proposed sale of the notes to First National 
Bank of Louisville, Louisville, Kentucky, rather than to nonbanking 
interests. 
In a memorandum dated July 28, 1972, Mr. Solomon, Director 
of the Division of Supervision and Regulation, provided additional 
information about the proposed sale. Mr. Solomon recommended approval 
of the application, since it had been the policy of all three bank 
supervisory agencies to permit the sale of capital notes by one bank 
to another bank. 
The Board thereupon approved the application. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 7. 
Michigan National Corporation. At several meetings, most 
recently on July 20, 1972, the Board had discussed the application of 
Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, Michigan, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of shares of each of the following 

1
9
8
8 
8/1/72 
-4-
five Michigan banks: Michigan National Bank, Lansing; Michigan 
National Bank, National Association, Detroit; Livonia National Bank, 
Livonia; Troy National Bank, Troy; and Oakland National Bank, Southfield. 
As a result of the acquisition of Michigan National Bank, the applicant 
would also acquire indirect control of less than 25 per cent of the 
outstanding voting shares of each of seven additional Michigan banks. 
At its meeting on June 21, 1972, the Board had unanimously approved the 
application. At the July 20 meeting, however, the Board agreed to 
reconsider the case but deferred action until additional members could 
be present. 
In a memorandum dated July 26, 1972, the Banking Markets 
Section explained the basis for its recommendation of unconditional 
approval of the application. 
At today's meeting Chairman Burns noted that members of the 
Board had expressed reservations about two aspects of the application. 
First, questions had been raised about low capital ratios, especially 
of two of the proposed subsidiaries. After a series of discussions with 
the applicant, these questions had been resolved to the satisfaction of 
a majority of the Board. 
Second, questions had been raised about the 
competitive effects of the proposed acquisitions, and these questions 
had not yet been resolved for some members of the Board. 
Today's discussion centered primarily around the acquisition 
of indirect control of the seven banks through shares owned by the 

1 9 8 7 
8/1/72 
" 5" 
Michigan National Bank Profit Sharing Trust. 
It was noted that if 
the Board wished to require divestiture by the Trust of the shares of 
some or all of the seven banks, it could do so in connection with this 
application. However, there would probably be other opportunities 
for the Board to require divestiture in connection with additional 
applications that would likely be submitted by Michigan National 
Corporation in the future. 
A majority of the Board favored unconditional approval of 
the application. 
Governors Robertson and Brimmer indicated that they 
would approve the acquisition of the five direct subsidiary banks. 
However, with respect to the acquisition of indirect interest in four 
of the seven banks, they felt that the effects on competition would be 
adverse. 
Therefore, they would condition approval on divestiture by 
the Trust of these four banks. 
The Board thereupon approved the application, Governors Robertson 
and Brimmer dissenting, and authorized the issuance of an order and 
statement reflecting that decision. Copies of the order and statement, 
along with a dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer, 
are attached under Item No. 8. 
The Board then discussed the circumstances that had resulted 
in the long delay in acting upon this application. Mr. Stanford Stoddard, 
principal officer of Michigan National Corporation, had requested an 

1 9 8 8 
8/1/72 
-6-
opportunity to discuss that question with Governor Sheehan. The Board 
agreed to the sending of a letter to Mr. Stoddard commenting on the 
reasons for the delay. A copy of this letter is attached as Item No. 9. 
Central Bancorp. 
In a memorandum dated July 24, 1972, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Central Bancorp, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares 
of Central National Bank of Miami. The Banking Markets Section also 
recommended approval, while the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta recommended 
denial. 
In a memorandum dated July 31, 1972, Mr. Leavitt discussed the 
reasons for the Reserve Bank's recommendation. 
During today's discussion questions were raised whether all 
shareholders of the bank would receive essentially the same offer, and 
about the applicant's intention and ability to make a timely public 
offering of its common stock in sufficient amount to retire all the 
debt to be incurred in the acquisition. 
The Board deferred action on the application and asked that the 
staff provide additional information on the applicant's proposal to 
retire the acquisition debt. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 1 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
8/1/72 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRE'iS Uf^lfllAL CDRKESPCNDtNCt 
TO THE UOAHD 
August 1, 1972 
First; National Cicy Overseas 
T nvestment C o r poration 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, Nov/ York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of May 1, 1972, as amended in 
your letter of June 1, 1972, the Board of Governors grants consent 
for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to continue to hold uhe shares of 
FNCB Financial Services Ltd. ("FNCBF"), llong Kong, after FNCBF ac-
quires all of the shares of Citicorp Financial Services Sendiriao 
ftorhad ("CFS"), Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, at a cost of approximately 
$350,000, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of CFS by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CFS if CFS at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
bold stock., or if CFS establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Malaysia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time wou 1 d nct be p( r miss:i.bio to FNCOIC; 
(2) Thau, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of OF? as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or.dispositions by CFS be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CPS were a corporation organized 
under Section 23(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

l a s o 
To: First National City Overseas 
Xnvestment Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (I) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter in so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by CFS in Malaysia in 
the currency of that country. 
You have requested consent for CFS to engage in the business 
of underwriting or dealing in securities. The Board's consent to such 
activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's obtaining the prior 
consent of the Board for the continued holding of shares of CFS should 
CFS" acquire stock of individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 
or representing 25 per cent of the voting shares of any company, except 
in the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from 
subunderwriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in securi-
ties in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the pro-
visions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact that CFS 
will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, maintain a size 
and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in relation to demand, and 
dispose of such shares within a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they are to 
be reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, 
on any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that Che Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of CFS. 
The Board also grants consent for FNCOT.C to continue to hold 
shares of FNCBF after FNCBF issues and has outstanding debt obligations 
with, a maturity in excess of one year up to an aggregate of approximately 
$400,000. 
The foregoing consent is given v?ith the understanding that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as 
they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Beard 

1 9 " o.i 
B O A R D n r 
G O V E R N O R G 
.• -oo'p'cov^•. 
OF tHE 
11em No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/1/72 
•<V)>: - ' v • 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
ADDRESS Of^lClAL CnRRESPDNOCMCE 
- 'ty^jQ*' 
TO THE BOARD 
August 1, 1972 
Marine Midland Rank-Western 
241 Main Street 
Buffalo, New York 
14203 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated May 30, 1572, 
of Marine Midland Western International Corporation, and there is 
enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing than Corporation to 
exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
Except as provided, in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K. 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the directors, 
must certify (1) that each director is a. citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
V citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling in-
terest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned by 
citizens of the Uaired States; and (3) that of the authorized capital 
stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 per cent 
has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has individually 
Paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
°f the remaining, instalments as and when each is paid in, in accordance 
v'ii"h law. 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Marine Midland 
Western International Corporation will have no ceiling of its own 
under the For.rJ.sr. Credit Restraint Program and the foregoing approval 
is given on condition that any foreign loans and investments of the 

To: Marina Midland Bank-Western 
- 2 -
Corporation will be made within the Guidelines as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of Marine Midland 
Bank-Western and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

1
3
9
3 
B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
f e d e r a l 
r e s e r v e 
s y s t e m 
WASHINGTON, D.c. 205f^l 
August 1, 1972 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated Kay 30, 1972, of MARINE MIDLAND WESTERN INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
duly filed with .aid Board of Governors, and that MARINE MIDLAND 
WESTERN INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the 
powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board of 
Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a :cinal permit generally 
to commence business in accordance with the provisions of said 
Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B 
(SIGNED) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1
9
3
4 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
u F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
8/1/72 
ADDRESS O' fltMAL DClRDCSPllNOfNKE 
TO THC HOARD 
August I, 197; 
Texas Commerce Bank National Association 
v> 0. Box 2558 
Houston, Texas 77001 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Texas Commerce Bank National Association, Houston, 
Texas, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act, to establish a branch in London, England, and to operate and 
maintain such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of 
Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1.973 5 all rights granted hereby 
shall be d eerued to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
vrill automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Dallas, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch, The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in London. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad« 
varices, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes 
the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-
wants, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on. 
Resources obtained outside the United States. Furthermore, it is under-
stood that the investment required will be made in conformity with the 
foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
^filiates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/1/72 
NCNB CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Inc. 
NCNB Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board !s approval, under 5 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of 
G. Douglas IJilson & Co., Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, a company 
that engages in the activity of mortgage banking. Such activity has 
been determined by the Board to be closely related to the business of 
banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
factors has been duly published (37 Federal Register 1427). The time 
for filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely 
received. 
Applicant controls the North Carolina National Bank ("Bank"), 
the second largest bank in North Carolina, and nonbanking subsidiaries en-
gaged principally in installment loan financing, factoring; mortgage bank-
y 
ing, and furnishing investment advice. Bank's depooits of $1.5 billion 
represent 18.5 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
State, Through its mortgage banking subsidiary, NCNB Mortgage Corpora-
tion, Applicant offers a complete line of mortgage banking services in 
North Carolina. However, NCNB Mortgage Corporation has no offices in 
1/ Data as of December 31, 1971. 
ft 

1 3 0 6 
-2-
South Carolina and substantially all of its servicing portfolio of 
2/ 
$186.1 million- represents mortgages originated in the State of 
North Carolina. 
C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Inc. ("Wilson"), engages in the 
origination and servicing of all types of mortgage loans throughout 
South Carolina. However, it obtains the majority of its business in 
18 counties in close proximity to its six offices in that State. Of 
Wilson1s total mortgage originations of $29.6 million in 1970, over 
75 per cent were secured by residential property, Wilson competes 
for these mortgage originations with a number of savings and loan 
associations, other mortgage banking companies, and commercial banks 
in each of the local markets in which it maintains offices, including 
both South Carolina based firms and firms headquartered in other States. 
The record indicates that Wilson is a strong but not a dominant competi-
tor in South Carolina mortgage markets, and that the demand for mortgage 
funds in the State may be expected to rise significantly. Between 1967 
and 1970, new housing unit authorizations increased by 40.4 per cent in 
' 
° 
3/ 
the State, compared to a national increase of 18.4 per cent. 
2/ Data as of June 30, 1971. 
3/ New Housing Units Authorized in South Carolina and the United States, 
1967-1970* 
_____ 
—
— 
percent 
change 
1967 
1968 
1969 
1970 
1967-197C 
v. 
S.C. 
U.S. 
S.C. 
U.S. 
s.c. 
U.S. 
s ^ 
U.S. , s ^ 
Uji 
Number 0f 
J J ^ t s (000's) 
15.6 
1,168.6 
16.2 
1,387.8 
16.8 
1,352.4 
21.9 
1,384.0 
40.4 
18. 
value of units 
)l m iUions) 
18.4 
15,367 19.6 
18,799 21.9 
19,045 26.7 
19,664 45.1 28. 
' B a s ed on local building permits issued in 13,000 places. The data exclude hotels, 
^°tels, and other grout? residential structures. 
Source; Bureau of the Census, Construction Reports, Series C-40. 

1 9 : 3 7 
-3-
The proposed acquisition would not result in any elimination 
of existing competition between NCNB Mortgage Corporation and Wilson 
in the residential mortgage market on one-four family homes or in the 
servicing of mortgages for the public. While the two institutions 
might on occasion be approached to make construction loans or loans 
on new income producing properties in the other's markets, there is 
n o significant existing competition between them in either of these 
product markets. 
Applicant's capability for de novo entry into local mortgage 
markets in South Carolina is limited partially by its lack of personnel 
uho oro experienced in those markets. Consummation of the proposed ac-
quisition eliminates the possibility of future competition between 
the two firms. However, because of numerous other mortgage companies 
and other financial institutions which both originate and service 
mortgages in South Carolina, the market is sufficiently unconcentrated 
to allow approval of the instant proposal without a substantial lessen-
ing of future competition. 
South Carolina's need for an increasing supply of mortgage 
funds, including financing of large-scale developments, seems clear, 
^he State's urban population increased by approximately 25 per cent 
between the period 1960-1970, and is expected to maintain this rate 
during the next decade. Consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
Provide Wilson with access to financial and other resources of Applicant 

isdq 
-4-
that would enable Wilson to provide more effectively for these needs, 
and at the same time enable it to compete more effectively for large 
commercial and construction loans in the State. The resulting bene-
fits in terms of public needs and convenience, and increased competi-
tion would, in the Board's judgment, outweigh any possible adverse 
effect on competition. 
In its consideration of the application, the Board noted 
that Applicant has substantial short-term debt, utilized to carry 
receivables of nonbank subsidiaries. In addition, long-term debt has 
been used for purchasing capital notes of Bank and for other long-term 
investments; as a consequence, the resulting debt level is relatively 
hi8h in relation to other bank holding companies. Debt of Applicant's 
nonbank subsidiaries appears to be reasonably comparable to that of 
°ther similar businesses, and reasonably supportable without depen-
dence upon the prestige or resources of Bank. The Board believes it 
essential that bank holding companies and their nonbank subsidiaries 
b e soundly financed so that they will, if anything, be in a position 
to add to the strength of their affiliated banks and in no way dilute 
° r "trade on" that banking strength. 
In this, as in every application, the Board looks to the 
quality of management of the holding company itself, as well as to 
its banking and nonbanking subsidiaries. Applicant and its sub-
sidiaries are considered capably managed and appear able to operate 
satisfactorily with the level of the holding company's debt. 

I S 
-5-
The Board notes further that the instant proposal involves 
an exchange of stock rather than a stock purchase; that Applicant's 
existing debt level will not be increased materially; that the earn-
ings record of Uilson has reasonably provided for debt servicing; and 
that prospects are good for continued favorable earnings under Ap-
plicant's control. The Board concludes that the acquisition of Wilson 
x;iU not place additional demands on Applicant's earnings or adversely 
affect Applicant's financial condition in any manner. Under these 
circumstances, the Board concludes that financial factors are con-
sistent with approval. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
J.L 
record, the Board hereby approves the application. This determina-
tion is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
0 r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasions thereof. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective 
f\UG 
1 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ V o t i n g for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Sheehan and 
Ab^ G r* 
v°ting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer, 
sent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF G6VERNORS ROBEkTSOtj AtiD TRIMMER 
We would deny this application, 
NCNB Corporation, headquartered in Charlotte, North Carolina, 
controls financial subsidiaries engaged principally in installment loan 
financing, factoring, mortgage banking, and furnishing investment advice, 
in addition to its $1.5 billion (deposit size) North Carolina National 
Bank, its mortgage banking subsidiary, NCNB Mortgage Corporation, 
ranks as the 116th largest mortgage company in the nation. Serving 
the entire State of North Carolina, this subsidiary originates a 
complete line of mortgage loans up to - and occasionally across - the 
Political boundary dividing North Carolina from South Carolina. Other 
nonbanlcing subsidiaries of Applicant have previously extended their 
services into South Carolina. Moreover, Applicant has applied through 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond to establish a trust company in 
South Carolina. It is a foregone conclusion that Applicant will, in 
time, establish de novo mortgage banking offices in South Carolina, 
witness the present mortgage offices in South Carolina established by 
Applicant's principal holding company competitors in North Carolina -
First Union National Bancorporation and the Wachovia Corporation. 
Expansion into South Carolina would appear essential if Applicant 
j 
2 to compete effectively with these companies on a regional basis. 
Hence, there are strong grounds for presuming that NCNB Corporation 
V 7 iH attempt to enter South Carolina mortgage markets by alternative 
means if this application is denied. 

2
0
0
1 
-2-
The foregoing illustrates not only that Applicant has both 
the proximity and interest in the South Carolina mortgage market to 
rank it as a leading potential entrant, but that it has the resources 
through which it is capable of making a successful de novo entry. 
Indeed, it is Applicant's capability - in terms of both financial 
resources and management - that x;ould permit it to overcome whatever 
short-term risks were entailed in such entry. The record in this 
case does not disclose any other potential entrant with the strong 
interest, incentives, and proximity to the South Carolina mortgage 
market which Applicant has, nor is there one with its capability. 
We can only conclude that significant potential competition exists 
between Wilson and NCNB Corporation and this competition would be 
eliminated by approval of this application. 
The vehicle through which Applicant has chosen to enter the 
South Carolina mortgage market - C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Inc. - is 
the largest mortgage banking firm headquartered in South Carolina and 
1/ 
the 72nd largest mortgage banking firm in the nation." 
Wilson's 
servicing portfolio in 1971 represented 36.6 per cent (by value) of 
all mortgages serviced by South Carolina-based mortgage companies, 
"^e combined mortgage servicing portfolio of Wilson and Applicant 
uould total $452.4 million and would rank 44th nationally. Such a 
combination would have, in our opinion, a significantly adverse 
effect on competition among mortgage banking firms in South Carolina, 
U liased on a mortgage servicing portfolio of $266.3 million as 
o f June 3D., 197L. 

2
0
0
2 
-3-
and it would accelerate the trend toward acquisition of the remain-
ing independents in that S t a t e . 
Elimination of the potential competition between Uilson and 
Applicant would cause no concern were a number of other potential 
entrants standing in the wing, ready to enter the South Carolina 
mortgage markets. Such remaining potential entrants would have a 
competitive influence on the practices and policies of mortgage 
bankers in South Carolina. However, while there are a number of bank 
holding companies in the country having Applicant's capability, none 
have the same proximity or interest in entering local mortgage markets 
i n South Carolina on a de novo basis. Undoubtedly, this is due to the 
f a ct that the greater the distance separating a de novo entrant from 
tllG market, the greater its start-up costs and costs of operation. 
In short, inability to make a successful de novo entry, i.e., one that 
is profitable early in Its operation, deters many from entering at all. 
IJq conclude that such is the case here and that few but this Applicant 
can be shown to have the capability of making a successful de novo 
entry, ihe elimination of the prospective competition now offered by 
APPlicant thus constitutes the elimination of significant potential 
competition from the most likely source - an adverse effect which we 
believe to be seriously detrimental to the public interest. 
The majority concludes that approval of the proposed acquisi-
t:^0n would be in the public interest and that the benefits to the public 
J- . 
Xj°uld outxjeigh the adverse effects caused by the elimination of potential 

-4-
2
0
0
3 
competition by reason of additional funds Wilson could bring to the 
mortgage markets in South Carolina.1 We disagree. A mortgage banker 
acts only as a conduit through x*hich funds flow from an institutional 
investor to the ultimate borrower. The funds in most cases - and 
certainly in the case of iJilson - come from the treasury of the 
institutional investor, not the treasury of the mortgage banker. We 
are therefore obliged to paraphrase an earlier view set forth in our 
dissent to the Board's approval of the application of First Union 
2/ 
National Bancorp., Inc., to acquire Reid-McGee & Company, where we 
stated: "[Applicant's] stated intent to make mortgage funds avail-
able in the [South Carolina] region is dependent on the ability or 
desire of its institutional investors, not the ability or desire of 
[Applicant]. Under these circumstances, we would require a clear 
showing that the institutional investors themselves intend to inject 
additional capital into the [South Carolina] mortgage market." Such 
a showing has not been made in the record before the Board on this 
application. Had Applicant been required to carry the burden of 
Proof of establishing public benefits that outweigh the adverse 
effects of the proposal, we believe that Applicant would have failed 
to meet that burden. However, the majority has concluded that public 
benefits not only exist, but are sufficient to outweigh the adverse 
effects. The additional funds the majority expects to see channeled 
into the South Carolina mortgage market are actually non-existent, 
2/ 58 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
72, 74. 

2
0
0
4 
-5-
since one mortgage banker in that market has simply been replaced 
by 
another. On the other hand, were Applicant to enter this market 
•tloVQ» the public uould be doubly enriched: additional funds would 
flow into the market from the new entrant, and a competitive force 
would be added in the market to generate greater competition. 

2(K-
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEli 
8/1/72°* 5 
NCNB CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Trust Company of Florida 
NCNB Corporation, Charlotte, North Carolina, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A ct, has applied for the Board's approval, under 5 4(c)(8) of 
the Act and 5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to 
acquire all of the voting shares of Trust Company of Florida ("Trust"), 
Orlando, Florida, a company that engages in the activities per-
formed or carried on by a trust company in the manner authorized 
hy State law, but not the acceptance of demand deposits. Such 
activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to the business of banking or managing or controlling banks 
(12 CFR 225.4(a)(4)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (37 Federal Register 
7272). The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
none have been timely received. 
Trust, which administered total trust assets of 
approximately $35 million as of December 31, 1971, operates 
i t s sole office in Orlando, and primarily serves Orange and 
a ll but the northern portion of Seminole Counties. With 7.3 
p e r cent of the total trust assets held by institutions in 
area, Trust is the fourth largest of seven corporate fidu-
ciaries in that area and does not appear to be dominant. 

-2-
^ 0 0 6 
North Carolina National Bank ("Bank"), a subsidiary 
of Applicant, engages, among other things, in a fiduciary business. 
Bank is located in Charlotte, North Carolina, and does not solicit 
trust business in the State of Florida. Bank's only trust business 
originating in Trust's service area is as trustee under a bond 
indenture for which it receives an annual fee of $250. Bank also 
does a nominal amount of trust business with former residents of 
North Carolina who, subsequent to the establishment of fiduciary 
relationships with Bank, moved into Trust's service area. Bullock-
NCNB Company, the only other subsidiary of Applicant which performs 
services that are performed by trust companies, provides investment 
advisory and management services principally for pension and profit-
sharing plans and tax-exempt institutional and endowment funds; it 
derives no business from Trust's service area. Nor does Trust derive 
any business from the service area of any subsidiary of Applicant. 
It therefore does not appear that any significant existing competition 
will be eliminated by consummation of the proposed acquisition. Nor 
does it appear that consummation would have any adverse effect on 
potential competition in that a recently-enacted Florida statute, 
inapplicable to the transaction proposed in this case, appears to 
Prohibit the acquisition or ownership of Florida trust companies 
by out-of-State corporations. 

2
0
0
7 
-3-
There is no evidence in the record indicating that con-
summation of the proposed transaction would result in any undue 
concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of 
interests, unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects 
the public interest. On the other hand, consummation of the 
Proposal would enhance Trust's ability to offer a broadened range 
o f fiduciary and trust-related services to the residents of the 
°rlando area by providing Trust with investment research and 
Portfolio management services, computer services, and marketing 
materials. Consequently, Trust would be better able to serve 
the public and to compete more effectively with the three larger 
trust departments of commercial bank subsidiaries of Florida 
holding companies which together hold approximately CO per cent 
°f the total trust assets in the area. 
The Board also concludes for reasons evident from its 
order of this date approving Applicant's acquisition of shares of 
C. Douglas Wilson & Co., Inc., Greenville, South Carolina, that 
financial factors are consistent with approval. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations 
reflected in the record, the Board has determined that the 
balance of the public interest factors the Board is required 
t o consider under section 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, 
the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
8ubject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such 

-4-
1306 
modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the 
Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, 
to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective August 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, 
°heehan, and Bucher. Voting against this action: Governor Robertson, 
vjho dissents from this order for reasons enumerated in his Statement 
dissenting from the Board's Order of December 7, 1971, approving the 
acquisition of Security Trust Company, Miami, Florida, by Nortrust 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois (53 Federal Reserve Bulletin 67 (1972). 
bsent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
RIBSO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Ribso, Inc., Rock Island, Illinois, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
^ e Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to retain oxmership of 2.276 per cent of the voting shares of Roclc 
Island Bank and Trust Company, Rock Island, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
an<* the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
As a result of the enactment of the 1970 Amendments to the 
Bank Holding Company Act, Applicant became a bank holding company by 
operation of law on December 31, 1970, because it then owned 23.1 per 
cent of the voting shares of Bank and controlled the election of a 
majority of Bank's directors. Subsequently, during the first six months 
o f 1971, Applicant acquired an additional 2.276 per cent of the voting 
shares of Bank without the prior approval of the Board as required by 
5 3<a)(3) of the Act. The proposal herein is for the Board's approval 
to retain the shares so acquired. 
iT^OnTjune 22, 1971, the Board ordered that any company which acquired 
a n interest in a bank between December 31, 1970, and June 22, 1971, 
Without first securing prior Board approval because of lack of knowledge 
o f that requirement might file for such approval by August 31,-1971, unless 
Suoh time was extended for good cause. The application herein was filed 
Pursuant to the Board's June 22, 1971, Order. 
2 0 0 9 
Item No. 6 
8/1/72 

2
0
1
0 
-2-
Appllcant, organized in 1955, is principally engaged in 
the ownership of shares of Bank and Bank's premises, and has no other 
banking subsidiaries. Bank ($59.1 million deposits) is the second 
largest of three banks in Rock Island, a community 160 miles west 
o f Chicago. 
(Banking data are as 6f December 31, 1971.) Approval of 
Applicant'a proposal would not result in the elimination of either 
existing or potential competition, nor does it appear that there would 
b e any adverse effects on any bank in the area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant and Bank are regarded as satisfactory and consistent 
uith approval of the application. Approval of the proposal would 
have no effect on convenience and needs of the community. It is the 
Board's judgment that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective August 1, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tvnan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Bueher 
D a a n e » trimmer, and Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 

2
0
1
1 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
gf the 
Item No. 7 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/1/72 
•mmt^te: 
WASH INGTON, 
D. 
C. ?.05i>1 
•miwim 
' <c-\ • '/.'"J ' 
AQDrU'SB -~IL'IAL CORRESPDtlOENCE 
. 
THE 30ARD 
• Mr. 
August 1, 1972 
Board or Directors 
? i r s t City Bank 
and Trust Company 
HopHnsville, Kentucky 42240 
G'-ntIemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(!) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of a $500,000 
subordinated note by First City Bank and Trust Company, Bopkinsville, 
Kentucky, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
T-ouis. Approval is granted with the. understanding that the sale 
o f this capita! note will be consummated within six months from the 
date of this letter and on the condition that the capital note 
cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without the approval 
o f the Federal Reserve Bank, 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secre tary 

2
0
1
2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
^ ^ No* 8 
8/1/72 
MICHIGAN NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank. Holding Company 
Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, Michigan, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval, under f> 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
c°mpany Act (12 U.S.C. 3(a)(1)), of formation of a bank holding 
company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of each of the following five Michigan banks: Michigan National 
B a n k } Lansing; Michigan Bank, N.A., Detroit; Livonia National Bank, 
Livonia; Troy National Bank, Troy: and Oakland National Bank, Southfield. 
As Q 
result of its acquisition of Michigan National Bank, Applicant would 
aIso acquire indirect control of less than 25 per cent but more than 5 
P e r c e n t of the outstanding voting shares of each of seven Michigan banks 
a° follOWs, central Bank, Grand Rapids (24.1 per cent); Valley National 
Bank of Saginaw, Saginaw (24.9 per cent)', Security National Bank of 
it 
J anistee, Manistee (23.4 per cent): First National Bank of East Lansing, 
E a s t Lansing (13.8 per cent); First National Bank of Wyoming, Uyoming 
(23 •> Per cent) r, Central National Bank of Alma, Alma (18.8 per cent)? and 
St 
• Clair Shores National Bank, St. Clair Shores (10 per cent). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
l n Light of the factors set forth in $ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

2 0 1 3 
-2-
0n the basis of the record3 the application is approved for 
t h e r e a s°ns set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. The 
transaction shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
d a y foll°wing the effective date of this Order or (b) later than three 
Months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
p 
, 
H 
^y order of the Board of Governors, 
effective August 3, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
e - n g 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
®nd b'-t ^ 
S h e e h a n * 
v°ting against thin action: Governors Tlobertson 
rimraer. Ahsent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

2
0
1
4 
STATEMENT BY 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REGARDI?!G APPLICATION EY 
MICHIGAN NATIONAL CORPORATION 
FOR APPROVAL OF FORMATION OF 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
Michigan National Corporation, Lansing, Michigan (''Applicant ') , 
h a s f i l e d with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to become a 
b ank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of 
e voting shares of each of the following five Michigan banks: Michigan 
National Bank, Lansing ("Michigan National")• Michigan Bank, N.A., Detroit 
< Michigan Bank55); Livonia National Bank, Livonia ("Livonia Bank"): Troy 
National Bank, Troy ("Troy Bank"): and Oakland National Eank, Southfield 
< Oakland Bank"). By virtue of acquisition of Michigan ?Tational, Applicant 
would acquire also indirect control of voting shares of each of seven 
ther Michigan banks as follows: 24.1 per cent of the shares of Central 
Ba 1 
n k> Grand Rapids ("Central Bank"); 24.9 per cent of the shares of Valley 
National Bank of Saginaw, Saginaw ("Valley National"); 23.4 per cent of 
t b e shares of Security National Bank of Manistee, Manistee ("Security 
Sank"}. n 
' 
J-J.tf per cent of the shares of First National Bank of East Lansing, 
E a S t Lansing ("East Lansing Bank"): 23.3 per cent of the shares of First 
National Bank of Uyoming, Wyoming ("Wyoming Bank"); 18.8 per cent of 
the 
e shares of Central National Bank of Alma, Alma ("Alma Bank"); and 10 
Per p 
e n t o f the shares of St. Clair Shores National Bank, St. Clair Shores 
("St 
Clair Shores Bank"). The described shares of the latter seven banks 
ar© hpi. . 
in trust by the Michigan National Bank Profit Sharing Trust for 

2015 
-2-
t h e benefit of employees of Michigan national and, pursuant to 8 2(g)(2) 
the Act, Michigan ITational is deemed to control such shares; by 
V i r t u e o f 5 2(g)(1) of the Act, Applicant will be deemed to control 
S U c h shares upon its acquisition of control of Michigan National. 
Statutory considerations. - Applicant is a recently-organized 
c°tporation formed for the purpose of becoming a multi-bank holding 
c°mpany through the direct acquisition of voting shares of each of five 
banks. As an incident to the acquisition of one of those banks, control 
o f less than 25 per cent but more than 5 per cent of the voting shares 
° f s e v e n other Michigan banks would be attributed to Applicant. The 
f^posal is essentially a corporate reorganization inasmuch as the 
Proposed five direct subsidiary banks are, and have been, closely 
filiated for several years through common ownership by ten families 
a n d 
Profit sharing trusts established at each of the five banks. Each 
o f the five banks has established a profit sharing trust for the benefit 
o f its employees, which, in each case, has invested in the stock of its 
bank and the stock of certain of the other proposed subsidiaries. 
Th 
c 
e five banks have been operated as a unified banking group for several 
years with common directors and interchanging management. TJpon acquisition 
the shares of the five banks, Applicant would control approximately 
9 -x 
Per cent ($2.03 billion) of the total deposits held by commercial 
Michigan and would become the second largest banking organization 
a n d t h e largest bank holding company in Michigan on the basis of deposits. 
Unless otherwise indicated, all banking data are as of June 30, 1071, 

2 0 1 6 
-3-
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved by 
t h S Q o a r d t o date.) The largest banking organization in Michigan would 
still be almost twice the size of Applicant and there are two other 
banking organizations comparable in size to Applicant. 
Michigan National ($1.1 billion deposits), which holds 5.1 
P e r C e n t o f the total commercial bank deposits in the State, is located 
l n L a n s i n 8 85 miles northwest of Detroit and is the fourth largest bank 
n Michigan and the largest bank outside of the Detroit area. Michigan 
National 
aj- Is represented in six banking markets, and has a total of twenty-
f iv 
e offices located throughout southern Michigan. On the basis of 
deposits m-» u 
s> Michigan National's ranking among the banks operating in those 
x Markets is as follows: first of the nine banks in the Lansing market* 
third o f the fifteen banks in the Grand Rapids market! second of the 
hanks l n the Saginaw market* third of the seven banks in the Flint 
Market * F-I 
» rirst of the six banks in the Port Huron market; and first of 
the seven banks in the Battle Creek market. It appears that consummation 
of 
e Proposal would not eliminate any significant existing competition 
ween Michigan National and any of the other four proposed direct 
hsidiaries, all of which are located in the Detroit metropolitan area. 
further 
® ° n the facts of record, particularly in view of the intervening 
stances between Michigan National and any of the other banks (the closest 
oes are 5 
t h e common ow 
o£fic 
are 57 miles apart), the number of available banking alternatives, 
ownership of the five banks, the sizes of the banks involved, 

2 0 1 7 
-4-
and the restrictions of Michigan branching law, it appears that no 
significant potential competition between Michigan National and any of 
other four proposed direct subsidiaries would be precluded by con-
summation of the proposal. 
Michigan Bank ($730 million deposits), headquartered in down-
turn Detroit with an additional twenty-six branches in the Detroit area, 
i s the sixth largest bank in the State and the fifth largest of forty-
n l n e hanks located in the Detroit banking market, approximated by the 
three county Detroit SHSA, and holds 5.8 per cent of deposits in that 
market. Livonia Bank ($70.7 million deposits)-, located in a suburb two 
miles west of Detroit, operates six branches in Livonia, and is the 
sixteenth largest bank in the Detroit market with .6 per cent of 
dePosits in the market. Troy Bank ($57.2 million deposits), located in 
suburb six miles north of Detroit, operates seven branches in Troy, 
atld 
the nineteenth largest bank in the Detroit market with .5 per 
° e n t o f deposits in the market. Oakland Bank ($56.3 million deposits), 
located in a suburb just northwest of Detroit, operates four branches 
Southfield. and is the twenty-first largest bank in the Detroit market 
with approximately .5 per cent of deposits in the market. 
It 
appears that consummation of the proposal would not have 
a n y significant adverse effects on competition in the Detroit banking 
m a r k e t ' As indicated above the four banks have been closely affiliated 
and have been operated as part of the Michigan National banking group for 
several years. Individuals associated with Michigan National purchased 

2 0 1 8 
-5-
a substantial interest in Michigan Bank in 1955. Subsequently, Troy 
Bank and Oakland Bank were organized de novo with the assistance of 
Mlchigan National and Michigan Bank in 1962 and 1965, respectively, and 
common ownership in Livonia Bank dates back to 1963 when the bank had 
° n l y 
million in deposits. Since the inception of the ownership 
interest in the three suburban banks, the management of all three has 
b e G n SuPPlied by Michigan National and Michigan Bank and all three have 
b e e n °Perated as part of the banking group. On the basis of the facts 
herein notably the origin and closeness of the existing relationships 
a n d t h e unlikelihood that the banks would become disaffiliated in the 
f Ojtr 
seeable future, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposal 
Would rmi- t, 
not have any significant adverse effects on existing or potential 
competition among the four Detroit area banks. 
Because of its acquisition of Michigan National, Applicant 
iil acquire also indirect control of certain shares (in each instance, 
than 25 per cent) of each of seven other Michigan banks presently 
h e l d by the Michigan National Profit Sharing Trust ("indirect banks"). 
Either Manistee Bank nor Alma Bank nor St. Clair Shores Bank operates 
in anY meaningful way in a market served by Michigan National or any of 
the 
°ther proposed subsidiaries. Through its profit sharing trust, Michigan 
Nati ( 
Natic 
National was instrumental in organizing East Lansing Bank (1955), Valley 
0 n al Bank (1959), and Wyoming Bank (1960); and Michigan National 
acquired its interest in Central Bank over ten years ago. Notwithstanding 
th 
G °rigin of the interests of the profit sharing trust in the indirect 
banks that are located in the areas of Grand Rapids, Saginaw, and East 

2 0 1 9 
-6-
Lansing, the relationship of Michigan National to said indirect banks 
i s a matter of concern to the Board inasmuch as offices of Michigan 
National serve these areas. The Board notes that in each of the areas 
° f Grand Rapids and Saginaw a larger banking organization holds more 
t h a n tw*ce the deposits held by Michigan National and, in the Lansing 
raarket, East Lansing Bank is one of the smallest banks and holds less 
ttlan 2 Per cent of the deposits there. It appears that there is no 
adverse competitive consideration serious enough to warrant denial of 
thf» 
ie aPPlication. Moreover, the order herein does not constitute a deter-
mination that any of said indirect banks is or may become a subsidiary 
of 
1/ 
APPlicant; nor is the order herein any indication that Applicant will 
b e Permitted to acquire direct or indirect control of any additional shares 
any of said banks. Any proposal for the acquisition of additional 
shares of any of said banks will be judged on the basis of the competitive 
ci*cumstances and all other relevant facts involved in the particular 
pr°Posal. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
^ a t consummation of the proposal involving the direct acquisition of the 
fix* 
V e banks and the indirect acquisition of less than 25 per cent of seven 
kanks would not substantially lessen competition in any relevant area nor 
^ave a significantly adverse effect on existing competition, nor foreclose 
tbe development of significant potential competition in any relevant area. 
j' 
course, the determination herein does not preclude the Board from 
^termining that the Applicant exercises a controlling influence over 
. ;e Management or policies of any of the seven so-called indirect banks 
lt:bin the meaning of § 2(a)(2)(C) of the Act. 

2
0
2
0 
-7-
The managerial resources of Applicant and each of its proposed 
subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory and consistent with approval 
o f the application. During consideration of the subject application, 
Applicant was notified by the Board of its serious concern over what it 
c°nsidered to be the inadequate capital positions of the proposed sub-
sidiary banks, expecially Michigan National and Michigan Bank, and of 
tbe Board's view that the capital position of each of the banks should 
b e improved without delay. 
In response to the Board's concern in this area, Applicant 
h a s proposed a capital improvement program that would immediately in-
crease the capital funds of the five subsidiary banks by $45.8 million 
a n d by December 31, 1973, would increase the capital by over $80 million. 
T h e capital improvement program includes the sale of $32 million in con-
Vertible debentures by Applicant ($30 million of which will be used to 
e*ercise preemptive rights to purchase additional common stock of the 
Proposed subsidiaries), the sale of $15.8 million in capital notes by 
Michigan National and Michigan Bank, and a dividend retention program that 
increase significantly the capital position of each of the proposed 
subsidiaries. In addition, Applicant's capital improvement program in-
zJ 
clndes the sale of $10 million of equity securities by December 31, 1973. 
Execution of this capital improvement program would strengthen the financial 
^Tbe~Board recognizes that the condition of the market for equity 
securities may present a serious impediment to a proposed sale of equity 
securities and that a reasonable delay beyond the projected period may 
Warranted. However, such delay will be warranted only if the Board 
l s satisfied that a substantially significant deterioration below present 
^rket levels has taken place in the market for equity securities. 

2
0
2
1 
-8-
c°ndition of Applicant and its proposed subsidiaries and enhance the 
Prospects of the group substantially. The significant increases that 
will be made in the capital account of each of the subsidiary banks as 
a result of the program to which Applicant is committed and the fact 
tllat Applicant is likely to have better access to capital markets than 
a n y o f the individual banks lend weight for approval of the application, 
Consummation of the proposal would not have any immediate 
effects on the convenience and needs of the communities served by the 
Proposed subsidiaries. However, reorganization of the ownership of the 
hanks i n t o the corporate structure of a holding company should provide 
I.L e operational flexibility that would enable the holding company to 
assist the subsidiary banks in improving and expanding their services. 
C°nsiderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
are eonsistent with approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all relevant facts 
c°ntained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tra 
nsaction would be in the public interest, and that the application 
ah°uld be approved. 
August 3, 1972. 
j 
1 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We would approve the formation of a holding company to 
control the five direct subsidiary banks, now that steps have 
been taken or will be taken to augment their capital structures. 
However, the proposal before the Board involves not only the direct 
acquisition of five banks but also, as a result of investments of 
the Michigan National Bank's profit sharing trust, the indirect 
acquisition of interests in each of seven other Michigan banks. 
With respect to four of the seven banks, namely, First National Bank 
o f East Lansing, Valley National Bank, Central Bank, and First National 
Bank of Wyoming, we consider the effects of this acquisition on 
competition to be adverse. 
The profit sharing trust just mentioned, a creature of 
Michigan National Bank established for the benefit of its employees, 
Purchased and holds stock (ranging from 10 per cent to 24.9 per cent 
o f the voting shares) of seven banks other than the five direct 
1/ 
subsidiaries. 
While we doubt the appropriateness of such investments 
by 
such a trust, we are adamantly opposed to sanctioning the employ-
ment of such a device to further the interests of a parent bank (the 
creator of the trust), especially when the result is both to enlarge 
that bank's share of the market and stifle competition. 
1/ 
Additional shares in some of the seven banks were acquired by 
individual members of the ten families that control the Michigan 
National Bank, thus strengthening the control or influence over 
such banks by the Michigan National Bank. As a matter of fact, 
Michigan National Bank is represented on the Board of Directors 
o f five of those seven banks. And to fill in part of the rest 
o f the picture, each of the five direct subsidiary banks has its 
0 wn profit sharing trust for the benefit of employees, each of 
which holds stock of some or all of those five banks. 

«r> A O O 
-2-
The record shows beyond any doubt that there is po-
tential if not actual competition between each of the four above-
Mentioned banks and Michigan National Bank, the largest of Appli-
cant's proposed subsidiaries. In the Lansing market, where 
Michigan National Bank is by far the largest bank with over 43 
Per cent of the deposits, First National Bank of East Lansing ranks 
seventh and holds about 2 per cent of the deposits. In the Saginaw 
Market, where Michigan National Bank is the second largest bank 
with about 23 per cent of the deposits, Valley National Bank ranks 
f°urth and holds about 7 per cent of the deposits. In the Grand 
RaPids market, where Michigan National Bank is the third largest 
bank with about 18 per cent of the deposits, Central Bank and First 
National Bank of Wyoming rank fourth and sixth, respectively, and 
k°ld, in the aggregate, about 4 per cent of the deposits. In each 
instance, the service area of Michigan National Bank overlaps that 
of 
°ne of the four banks. In our view, the evidence reflects 
Meaningful potential - if not actual - competition which would 
foreclosed to the detriment of the public interest. Consummation 
Applicant's proposal would tend to eliminate competition and to 
Seclude the development of potential competition by rendering less 
likely the prospect of disassociation of the four banks from the 
Michigan National group. 
In view of Michigan National Bank's already significant 
in the Lansing, Saginaw, and Grand Rapids markets, we 
c°nsider that the public interest will not be served by approving 

O A O 71 
4 
-3-
Applicant's indirect interest in four banks that are in competition 
W i t h APPlicant's principal subsidiary. 
Instead, competition would 
be 
enhanced, and the public interest served, by withholding approval 
o f the application until Applicant persuades the profit sharing 
t r U s t t o divest itself of its interests in the four banks. In 
t h e a l t e rnative, approval of the application should be so conditioned 
a S t o 8ive Applicant a reasonable period of time after formation of 
t h e h o l ding company within which to accomplish the divestiture of 
t h* four banks. 
While we realize that (as intimated in the majority's 
°Pinion) divestiture of the stock of these four banks (or possibly 
e stock of all seven of the banks) held by the profit sharing 
s t could be required as a condition to the approval of future 
aPPlications to expand, we believe that in fairness to all parties 
and "i 
, 
•"i the interests of sound bank supervision the issue should be 
c 
Ce<* and settled nox*, at the outset of the formation of the holding 
Co^pany rather than at some uncertain date in the future. 
August 3, 
1972. 

1 
Pig: 
%
m
m 
B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2
0
^ 
•KtO 
Item No. 9 
8/1/72 
ADDRCS3 OFFICIAL CUF!HESPDIJDENCE 
TO 1HK UDAIJD 
August 4, 1972 
p ^ ?tanford C. Stoddard 
Resident 
60nhlSan N a t i o n a l Corporation 
Guardian Building 
Cr°it, Michigan 48226 
D G a r Mr. Stoddard: 
Sheel 
I n y ° u r l e L t e r c f J u lY 283 1972, addressed to Governor 
pv 0
M a n> y°u indicate concern with the length of time involved in 
cessing the application of Michigan National Corporation, and 
-sliest an appointment with Governor Sheehan. 
Auo.. 
This application was accepted by the Federal Reserve System 
that*" * 
1971, I am certain you will recall that subsequent to 
ti.a?Ce})tance> representatives of the Board's staff informed you 
in h ^ 1 1 concern about the capital positions of the banks involved 
th 
of Jt ° ProP°sal, particularly those of the two larger banks. Because 
Had 
a 
c°ncern, persons representing the proposed holding company 
t0 ,^rivei;sations and met with several members of the Board's staff 
of tl " C U G S 
corPcration's pl"n ior improving the capital positions 
Vas
 
G Va£ious subsidiary banks. These occurred before a memorand 
Wtjtt 
mfttec^ L o .^e Board. Subsequently the corporation submitte 
0 n information about capital improvement plans. 
um 
tted 
itierif, 
following submission of these plans a memorandum on the 
Jcou^'S 
the case was completed and sent to the Hoard, The Board 
capital improvement plans unacceptable. At this time the 
s0, 
c°uld have denied the application, but it did not choose to do 
father the Board believed there was merit to the proposal and 

Stanford C. Stoddard 
- 2 -
rV>0 r* 
o 
that formation of the proposed company would tend to increase 
competition in banking in Michigan, provide for additional banking 
services, and thus be in the public interest. The Board instructed 
staff to contact applicant. 
Pursuant to the Board's instructions, staff contacted you 
to inform you of the Board's findings. Another meeting was held 
and again additional information was submitted by applicant. 
Board 
staff then analyzed the new information and presented to the Board 
the revised capital improvement plans of this proposed holding 
.company. The Board rejected the amended proposal. The Board thus 
had a second opportunity to dispose of this application in a rather 
timely fashion by denial. Again it chose not to do so. Rather 
it instructed staff to contact principals of Michigan National 
Corporation, inform them that their capital improvement plans were 
still not acceptable to the Board, and request that plans to improve 
the capital position of the subsidiary barks be improved. 
N. 
You may recall that when Board staff met with representatives 
of the holding company following the second Board meeting, Mr. Leavitt 
informed you that it was most unusual for the Board to twice offer an 
applicant an opportunity to amend an application so that it might be 
placed in a posture acceptable to the Board. 
Following this meeting you again submitted proposals 
£or improving the capital position of the subsidiary banks. This 
information was analyzed and again presented to the Board for its 
considera tion0 
As you now know, the Board approved the application of 
Michigan National Corporation to become a bank holding company as 
indicated by its order dated August 3, 1972. A lengthy time was 
consumed in consideration of this case; however, this time was 
required to develop an application acceptable to the Board. The 
Board could have acted at an early date simply by denying the appli-
cation. But it concluded that the public interest was best served 
hy having its staff devote a disproportionately large amount of 
time to work with you on this proposed formation. The Board believed 
tliat: from the viewpoint of the public interest this was the most 
desirable course to pursue. 
Jn the light of the chronology of events cited above and 
the Board's affirmative action on your application, Governor Sheehan 

Stanford C. Stoddard 
-3-
2 0 2 7 
assumes that the meeting requested in your letter of July 28, 1972, 
i s no longer necessary. 
If, however, you still wish to review this 
matter with Governor Sheehan, he will be glad to arrange a meeting 
1n the near future. 
Very truly yours, 
/ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
