MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 6, 1971 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, August 6, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
1/ 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
2J 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mrs. Hobbs and Miss Key of the Office of the 
Secretary 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was pre-
sented. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files along with copies of the indi-
vidual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed matters of interest to the Federal 
Reserve presently being considered by the Congress. 
Governor Sherrill then withdrew from the meeting. 
Insurance activities of bank holding companies. The Board 
approved, subject to certain editorial changes, drafts of a press 
1/ Withdrew from meeting and returned at points indicated in minutes. 
2J 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

19S1 
8/6/71 
-2-
release and Federal Register notice reflecting the decision on 
August 5, 1971, concerning insurance agency activities of bank 
holding companies. Copies of the documents in final form are attached 
under Item No. 1. 
The meeting continued from this point with Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon of the staff in attendance. 
Govenor Robertson related that as a result of publicity 
incident to investigation by a Senate Subcommittee of certain alleged 
transactions in stolen or counterfeit securities the Devon Bank of 
Chicago, Illinois, had been losing deposits for several days. 
Bankers association sources had been attempting to arrange a press 
conference at which representatives of the bank supervisory agencies 
would be present and issue a statement to the effect that the 
"supervisors were on top of everything" and "everything was under 
control." He had advised President Mayo of the Chicago Reserve Bank 
against participating, and Mr. Mayo had agreed with that advice. It 
was understood that the FDIC also had declined to participate. 
Governor Robertson then reviewed for the Board the continuing 
joint supervisory efforts to find a solution for the problems con-
fronting Bank of the Commonwealth, Detroit, Michigan. He noted, among 
other things, reasons why he could not see his way clear at this time 
to permit the payment of a dividend on preferred stock in September; 
the granting of permission to pay such a dividend in June he now 
regretted. Governor Robertson then described various measures that 

19S5 
8/6/71 
-3-
had been considered, in conjunction with the FDIC, to work out a 
longer-range solution to the bank's situation, but he also indicated 
what difficulties would be involved in each of the possible courses 
of action. 
During a general discussion, in the course of which Governor 
Sherrill returned to the meeting, members of the Board expressed the 
hope that a justifiable means could be found that would enable the 
bank to continue in business as a viable institution, particularly 
in view of services rendered by it that contributed to the conve-
nience and needs of the public in areas where its offices were 
located. Some suggestions were made as to additional possibilities 
that might be explored with the other banking agencies, and it was 
understood that Governor Robertson would continue his efforts toward 
finding a solution. 
Mr. Kenyon then withdrew from the meeting. 
The Chairman discussed with the Board members developments 
.. . . L: * f;' ' - ' 
in the international financial area and current relationships between 
the Federal Reserve and the Administration. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

I 
'' 
J 
L ri^feoV oo\V • \ 
• 
Av^ • < it-' 
if' - 
vvjfcV. 
d^ifc) Vy/-
I /•• f ^ r ^ b ' . 
: k i O q p 
M
y
'
^
^
g
f
f
i
K 
Item No. 1 
8/6/71 
For iir.medi.ate release 
August 10, 1971 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
announced certain types of insurance agency activities in which bank 
holding companies may engage under the 1970 amendments to the Bank 
Holding Company Act. 
In an amendment, effective September 1, to its bank holding 
company regulation, the Board added insurance agency activities to 
the list of businesses it has found thus far "to be so closely related 
to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto." The Board earlier determined eight other activities to be 
"closely related" to banking under section 4{c)8 of the Act. 
The amendment adds the following activity to the Board's 
list: 
"Acting as insurance agent or broker in offices at which the 
holding company or its subsidiaries are otherwise engaged in business 
(or in an office adjacent thereto) with respect to the following types 
of insurance: 
"(i) any insurance for the holding company and its subsidiaries; 
« » 
"(11) any insurance that (A) is directly related to an exten-
sion of credit by a bank or a bank-related firm of the kind de-
scribed in this regulation, or (B) is directly related to the 
provision of other financial services by a bank or such a bank-
related firm, or (C) is otherwise sold as a matter of convenience 
to the purchaser, so long as the premium income from sales within 

the subclause (C) does not constitute a significant portion of 
the aggregate insurance premium income of the holding company 
from insurance sold pursuant to this clause (ii); 
"(iii) any insurance sold in a community that (A) has a popu-
lation not exceeding 5,000, or (B) the holding company demon-
strates has inadequate insurance agency facilities." 
The Board expressed the expectation that a holding company 
or subsidiary that engages in the insurance agency business will 
exercise its fiduciary responsibility--that is, by making its best: 
effort to obtain the insurance at the lowest practicable cost to the 
cus tomer. 
The Board acted on insurance agency activities after con-
sidering public comments and the record of a hearing held before 
members of the Board on May 12. Insurance agency business was one 
of the 10 activities proposed by the Board last January 25 when it 
outlined plans to amend Regulation Y as a first step toward implementing 
the 1970 amendments to the Act. 
The original proposal would have permitted a bank holding 
company to act "as insurance agent or broker principally in connection 
with extensions of credit by the holding company or any of its sub-
sidiaries." In the amendment announced today, the Board spelled out in 
more detail the types of insurance agency activities that it found to be 
closely related to banking. 

In a related matter, the Board also considered but decided 
not to adopt at this time a general regulatory provision regarding 
insurance underwriting activities as closely related to banking. 
A copy of the insurance agency amendment is attached. 

I 
1999 
I 
I 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BAILING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[ReS. Y3 
PART 222—BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Nonbankirig activities of Bank Holding Companies 
By notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal 
Agister on January 29, 1971 (36 F.R. 1430), the Board of Governors pro-
Posed to implement its regulatory authority under section 4(c)(G) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act to permit holding companies to engage directly 
through a subsidiary in the activity of "acting as insurance agent 
or broker principally in connection with extensions of credit by the 
holding company or any of its subsidiaries". 
A hearing was held before members of the Board on Hay 12, 1971, 
the question of the extent to which insurance agency activities are 
"so closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be 
a Proper incident thereto" within the meaning of section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act. Extensive preliminary procedures were followed to afford interested 
Parties sufficient opportunity to express their views on the issues 
involved. 
Following consideration of the comments received and the record 
the hearing, the Board has amended § 222.4(a) by changing the period 
the end thereof to a scmicolon and adding subparagraph (9) as set 
forth below, effective September 1, 1971. 

, 
2000 
I 
i 
I 
-2-
The Board stated that its action on this matter docs not 
affect any determination made by it pursuant to 5 4(c)(8) of the Act 
be£ore January X, 1971. 
In connection with its action on this matter, the Board 
exPressed the expectation that any holding company or subsidiary that 
a°ts as an insurance agent on the basis of the new regulatory provision 
w i U exercise a fiduciary responsibility—that is, by making its best 
effort to obtain the insurance at the lowest practicable cost to the 
Customer. 
In a related matter, the Board decided not to adopt at this 
time a general regulatory provision regarding insurance underwriting 
act'ivities as closely related to banking. 
The text of the amendment to S 222.4(a) reads as follows: 
5 222.4 Nonbanking activities. 
(a) Activities closely related to banking or managing or 
Controlling banks. * * * The following activities have been determined 
the Board to be so closely related to banking or managing or controlling 
banks as to be a proper incident thereto: 
* * * 
(9) acting as insurance agent or broker in offices at which 
holding company or its subsidiaries are otherwise engaged in business 
in an office adjacent thereto) with respect to the following types 
insurance: 

2001 
I 
- 3 -
(i) any insurance for the holding company and its subsidiaries; 
(ii) any insurance that (A) is directly related to an extension 
°f credit by a bank or a bank-related firm of the kind described in this 
regulation, or (B) is directly related to the provision of other financial 
services by a bank or such a bank-related firm, or (C) is otherwise sold 
a s a matter 
of convenience to the purchaser, so long as the premium 
income from sales within the subclause (C) does not: constitute a signifi-
cant portion of the aggregate insurance premium income of the holding 
company from insurance sold pursuant to this clause (ii); 
(iii) any insurance sold in a community that (A) has a population 
not exceeding 5,000, or (B) the holding company demonstrates has inadequate 
insurance agency facilities. 
Effective date: September 1, 1971 
By order of the Board of Governors, August 5, 1971 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
[SEAL] 
