MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 4, 1969 

2 7 4 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, September 4, 1969. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 1/ 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Associate Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
1/ 
Withdrew from meeting and returned at points indicated in minutes. 

2719 
9/4/69 
-2-
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Schober, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Sherman, Consultant to the Board 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Ratification of actions. Actions taken at the meeting of the 
available members of the Board on September 2, 1969, as recorded in 
the minutes of that meeting, were ratified by unanimous vote. 
Truth in lending film strip. Unanimous approval was given 
to recommendations of Governor Robertson that the firm of Ruder & 
Finn be authorized (1) to undertake a study of truth in lending 
(Regulation Z) information communicated through the press, printed 
material, and other means, at a cost of approximately $5,000 over and 
above the present monthly fee of $5,000, which would be continued 
until November 15, 1969; and (2) to produce a consumer film strip 
at a cost not to exceed $16,000. Attached as Item No. 1 is a copy 
of the letter sent to Ruder & Finn reflecting this action. 
The Board also authorized any resultant budget overexpenditure. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Blacksburg State Bank, 
Blacksburg, South Carolina, into Southern Bank and Trust Company, 

9/4/69 
-3-
Greenville, South Carolina, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion read 
as follows: 
There appears to be a small amount of competition 
between Blacksburg State Bank, Blacksburg, South Carolina, 
and Southern Bank and Trust Company, Greenville. 
Overall, 
the effect of the proposal on competition would be slightly 
adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of Redmond State Bank, Redmond, Washington, into Bank of the 
West, Bellevue, Washington, was approved unanimously for transmittal 
to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The conclusion read 
as follows: 
While there is little existing competition between 
Bank of the West, Bellevue, and Redmond State Bank, there is 
some limited potential for increased competition between the 
two banks. The effect of the proposal on competition would 
be slightly adverse. 
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
purchase of assets and assumption of liabilities of Kennewick National 
Bank, Kennewick, Washington, by Old National Bank of Washington, 
Spokane, Washington, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Acquisition of Kennewick National Bank by Old National 
Bank of Washington, Spokane, would eliminate that competition 
which exists between them. It is believed, however, that such 
competition has been limited due to the close relationship 
which existed between them since organization of Kennewick 
National Bank in 1964. The overall effect of the proposal 
on competition would be slightly adverse. 

^ 
/ O x 
9/4/69 
-4-
A report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The Second National Bank of Nashua, Nashua, New Hampshire, 
into The Mechanicks National Bank of Concord, Concord, New Hampshire, 
into The Manchester National Bank, Manchester, New Hampshire, was 
approved for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Currency. 
The 
conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing among The Second 
National Bank of Nashua, The Mechanicks National Bank of Con-
cord, and The Manchester National Bank, although there is some 
potential for increased competition among them. The overall 
competitive effect of the proposal would be slightly adverse. 
Governor Robertson dissented because he agreed with the conclusion 
of the research staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston that the 
proposed merger would have adverse competitive effects. 
Marshall & Ilsley. There had been distributed drafts of orders 
and a statement reflecting the Board's approval on August 11, 1969, 
of the applications of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of the following banks in 
Wisconsin: 
Adams County State Bank, Adams; The Portage County Bank, 
Almond; The People's Bank, Coloma; and Westfield State Bank, Westfield. 
The issuance of the orders and statement was authorized. 
Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached under Item No. 2. 
Report on foreign branch assets and liabilities. There had 
been distributed a memorandum dated September 3, 1969, from the 

OHHCO 
/J / O M w 
9/4/69 
-5-
Division of International Finance relating to Form F.R. 502, the 
monthly report of foreign branch assets and liabilities that would 
replace Treasury IET Form 3954. It was understood that, upon confir-
mation that the Board's new form would be available to the Treasury 
for the same purposes as the IET form, the Internal Revenue Service 
would amend its regulations with respect to reporting requirements 
for foreign branches in order to avoid duplication. Attached to 
the memorandum was a draft letter to the Commissioner of Internal 
Revenue that would confirm the arrangement. 
M r . Gemmill pointed out that, while the new reports would be 
available to the office responsible for balance of payments analysis 
at the Treasury, it would be possible for the Internal Revenue Service 
also to obtain access to them. However, such a development was not 
likely, and in any event the forms would be made available to the 
Treasury under arrangements that would safeguard the confidentiality 
°f the information on individual reporting banks. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to the letter 
to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, a copy of which is attached 
as Item N o . 3. Attached as Item No. 4 is a copy of the letter sent 
to the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Testimony on S. 2577. There had been distributed a draft of 
statement to be presented by Chairman Martin on September 10, 1969, 

9/4/69 
-6-
before the Subcommittee on Financial Institutions of the Senate 
Committee on Banking and Currency with respect to S. 2577. 
Section 1 of the bill would extend for an additional year 
the authority, originally granted in 1966, for coordinated regulation 
of the maximum interest rates payable on time and savings deposits 
by Federally-insured financial institutions. The testimony would 
recommend that the authority be extended on a permanent basis. 
Section 2 of the bill would extend interest rate controls 
to savings institutions whose deposits were not insured by a Federal 
agency, and the statement would express the view that controls along 
the line suggested would be justified. 
Sections 3 and 4 concerned the financial relationships 
between the Treasury and the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, including, 
in section 3, an expression of the intent of Congress as to the 
circumstances in which the existing authority for Treasury lending 
to the Home Loan Bank Board should be exercised. 
The testimony 
would point out that the provision was a substitute for an alternative 
proposal considered last year to augment the flow of funds to housing 
in periods of tight money. The Federal Reserve Board had strongly 
opposed the earlier proposal because it would have entailed direct 
borrowing by Federal housing agencies from the Federal Reserve; however, 
the same objections would not apply to the present proposal. 

/O' t 
9/4/69 
-7-
Section 4 would revoke the Treasury's veto power over open 
market borrowings by the Federal Home Loan Banks. The Board's state-
ment would view the provision as primarily a matter of concern to 
the Treasury, but raise a question as to coordination under such 
circumstances. 
Sections 5 and 6 related to the regulatory authority to 
control the ability of member banks to attract funds by issuing 
securities through affiliates or other means, or by borrowing from 
foreign branches. The testimony would review the situation in terms 
of recent experience and Board actions taken to prevent evasion of 
existing laws and regulations. It would note that while the use of 
non-deposit sources of funds by banks this year had not rendered 
monetary policy ineffective, such use might have delayed its impact 
somewhat and altered the distribution of monetary restraint among 
the various sectors of the economy in undesirable ways. Against this 
background, the statement would consider the provisions of the bill, 
section 5 of which would add a provision to section 19 of the Federal 
Reserve Act authorizing the Board to limit the rate of interest payable 
°n obligations issued by an affiliate of a member bank or by other means. 
Such a provision would clarify the Board's authority and would be 
desirable. 
Section 6 of the bill would add a provision to section 19 
of the Federal Reserve Act that would authorize the Board to establish 

2755 
9/4/69 
-8-
a 100 per cent reserve requirement against increases in member bank 
borrowings from foreign branches. The testimony would state that, 
if the Board were to be given additional authority with respect to 
the establishment of reserve requirements against foreign borrowings 
by member banks, in the Board's view the appropriate action would be 
to provide authority for the establishment of reserve requirements 
on borrowings from foreign banks (under section 19) to the same 
extent that the Board could now impose reserve requirements on 
borrowings from branches (under section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act). 
Sections 7 and 8 would restore to the President the lapsed 
authority in the Defense Production Act of 1950 to encourage repre-
sentatives of all the major sectors of the private economy to enter 
into voluntary agreements and programs furthering the objectives of 
the Act. The testimony would recommend against enactment of those 
sections on the grounds that they might tip the scales, however 
slightly, toward increased use of some form of selective credit 
restraint program, and in the Board's judgment selective controls were 
not now needed and inflation could be brought under control without 
them. 
There was general agreement that the draft statement was 
well thought out and presented a reasonable reflection of Board views, 
although there were some differences in judgment on certain points. 

2756 
9/4/69 
-9-
For instance, Governor Mitchell would have preferred a recommen-
dation that the section 1 authority to regulate ceiling rates be 
extended for one year rather than on a permanent basis. 
Several comments were directed to section 5 of the proposed 
bill, which would bring issuance of commercial paper by bank holding 
companies within the scope of Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits), 
and section 6, which would deal with Euro-dollar borrowings under 
Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks). A view was expressed that 
the question whether provisions of Regulations D and Q should have 
parallel applicability could not be settled until fundamental 
questions raised by the Legal Division in a memorandum dated Septem-
ber 2, 1969, with respect to issuance of commercial paper by affil-
iates of banks had been resolved. 
Following a further exchange of 
views, there was agreement that the issue was one that should not 
be disposed of hastily and that the testimony should be shaped 
accordingly. 
On the proposal to revoke the Treasury's veto power over 
open market borrowings by the Federal Home Loan Banks, it was under-
stood that the Treasury was opposed to this proposal. 
Some reser-
vations were expressed as to the propriety of endorsing the use of 
veto power by the Treasury over open market activities of all Federal 
agencies except the Federal Reserve, but the unique status of the 

2757 
9/4/69 
-10-
central bank and its objectives was also noted. The proposal was 
then considered in terms of debt management problems and smooth 
functioning of money and capital markets. In light of views expressed, 
it was agreed that the appropriate position would be to recommend 
against enactment of the provision to revoke the Treasury's veto 
power. 
Following further discussion during which additional points 
were debated, it was agreed that the statement would be reworked in 
light of this morning's discussion and presented in a final form 
satisfactory to Chairman Martin. 
(Note: 
A copy of the statement, 
as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
At this point Governor Mitchell withdrew from the meeting, 
indicating that he wished to abstain from participating in the consid-
eration of the next item on the agenda. 
Retirement System. With a memorandum dated August 29, 1969, 
the Office of the Secretary had redistributed excerpts from the July 9, 
1969, report of the Joint Board-Presidents' Conference Committee on 
the Retirement System of the Federal Reserve Banks relating to the 
following questions, which had not been previously considered by the 
Board: 
How should the Retirement System funds be invested and 
administered? 

2758 
9/4/69 
-11-
Should the Bank Plan and the Board Plan be merged; or if 
not merged, should the Presidents and First Vice Presidents 
be shifted to the Board Plan? 
What disposition should be made of the excess reserves? 
How often should the general program of benefits provided 
under the Retirement System be reviewed? 
In a memorandum dated August 28, 1969, Governor Maisel pointed 
out that there appeared really to be only two basic alternatives with 
respect to the investment problem; namely, to restrict investments to 
Governments and agencies or to enter into a contract with one or 
several investment managers to perform the investment function. 
The 
report of the Joint Committee made no specific recommendation, but 
set forth as objectives (1) removal of System personnel from any 
position of investment counseling or portfolio management, and (2) 
administration and investment of the funds of the Retirement System 
in such a manner as to produce the lowest cost to the U.S. Treasury 
consistent with the first objective and industry practices for similar 
funds. 
At today's meeting Governor Maisel recommended that the 
Retirement Reserve Fund, consisting of amounts set aside to pay 
future pensions for those already retired, be discontinued and that 
annuities be purchased from an insurance company or companies. 
M r . Sherman concurred in this view, noting that the President members 
of the Joint Committee leaned in that direction as well. 
Following 

2759 
9/4/69 
-12-
discussion, it was agreed that it would be appropriate to purchase 
annuities from one or several insurance companies. 
With respect to the Pension Accumulation Fund, Governor Maisel 
noted that the predominant view among the Presidents appeared to 
favor investment in a balanced portfolio of equity and debt securities 
by selected managers, whose performance would be subject to continuing 
evaluation. 
Personally, he was convinced, for reasons suggested in 
his memorandum, that it would be preferable if this fund were managed 
more or less as the equivalent of a Government trust fund holding only 
limited types of securities. 
There followed a discussion of the conflicting philosophies 
and reasons that could be advanced in support of each, and mixed 
views were expressed by members of the Board. There was a general 
view, however, that the present system of investment and administration 
should no longer be followed, and it appeared to be the consensus that 
it would be well to turn the Retirement Reserve Fund over to selected 
managers, i.e., banks or insurance companies, with agreement as to 
what types of risks should be taken and with provision for continuing 
evaluation of performance. 
It also appeared to be the consensus that 
concern for maximization of earnings should not be the overriding 
criterion. 
In further discussion, it was agreed that pressure should not 
be exerted for the Bank Plan and the Board Plan to be merged. 
The 

27H0 
9/4/69 
-13-
question whether the Presidents and First Vice Presidents should be 
shifted to the Board Plan was then considered, and several arguments 
that could be made for such a shift were presented. However, weight 
was given to the reasons expressed by the Presidents in favor of 
retention of their identity with the Bank Plan, and it was agreed 
that the Presidents and First Vice Presidents should be permitted 
to continue under the Bank Plan. 
Discussion of the question of disposition of excess reserves 
was deferred in view of the fact that it was not known at present to 
what extent, if any, such reserves would exist. 
Comments also reflected agreement with the consensus of the 
Joint Committee favoring a general review of and report on the program 
of benefits provided under the Retirement System at least once every 
5 years. 
It was understood that the Board's views as developed at 
today's meeting would be conveyed to the President members of the 
Joint Committee on the Retirement System. 
Governor Maisel also reported that plans for setting up the 
Thrift Plan were moving along rapidly, with Equitable Life Assurance 
Society tentatively selected as administrator of the plan and manager 
of the fixed income part of the funds. 
Governor Maisel then pointed out that still unresolved was 
the question whether Board employees should be permitted to participate 

2 7 * ; i 
9/4/69 
-14-
in the Thrift Plan, along with the further question whether such 
participation should be on the same basis as that of Bank employees 
in terms of matching contributions. 
Governor Maisel stated that his 
inclination, although he had no strong feeling, would be not to make 
matching contributions because benefits of Board employees were 
generally based on the "Washington package" and such a plan was not 
included in that package. However, Governor Brimmer cited the 
desirability of encouraging exchanges of personnel between the Banks 
and the Board. Following some discussion of the time schedule within 
which a decision should be made, it was understood that Mr. Sherman 
and the Division of Personnel Administration would prepare a memorandum 
outlining the various considerations involved. 
Other actions. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made 
available to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective 
numbers indicated. 
Item N o . 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
5 
St. Louis approving the payment of salary 
to Anthony C. Cremerius, Jr., as Assistant 
Vice President at the Memphis Branch at the 
rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors, 
and interposing no objection to the designa-
tion of Paul I . Black, Jr., as Assistant Vice 
President and Assistant Manager at the Memphis 
Branch with no change in his current salary. 

2 7 € 
9/4/69 
-15-
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
6 
Chicago approving the payment of salary 
to Fred A . Dons as General Auditor and 
to Frederick S. Dominick as Assistant 
General Auditor at the respective rates 
fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. 
Governor Mitchell returned to the meeting at this point. 
Proposed amendments to Regulations D and Q . Various staff 
materials relating to the pending proposal to limit bank liabilities 
outside the coverage of Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) and 
Regulation Q (Interest on Deposits) had been distributed, including 
memoranda dated August 22 and 28, 1969, from the Legal Division and 
the Division of Research and Statistics, respectively. 
At today's meeting Mr. Sanders summarized a few of the 
numerous issues involved and commented briefly on the manner in which 
the Board might approach the problems. 
Since it was the consensus that the subject was one requiring 
close and careful consideration, it was agreed that the matter would 
be brought back for full discussion at an early meeting of the Board. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
V. y 
"" 
Secretary 

-mi I 
Liiv 
•f^LR^-.-
B O A R D O F D G V E R N O R 5 
Or" TH E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D . C . 
2 C 5 5 I 
Item No. 1 
9/4/69 
2 7 6 3 
O F F I C E : O F T H E 
V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
September 5, 1969. 
Mr. David Finn 
Ruder & Finn Inc. 
110 East 59th Street 
New York, New York 
10022 
Dear Mr. Finn: 
This will acknowledge and thank you for your letter of 
August 29, 1969, in which you outlined a proposal for a study of 
the Regulation Z information which has been communicated through 
the press, printed material, and other means. 
This will be your authority t'o proceed with uhat study 
as outlined in your letter of August 29 under the fee and expense 
provisions mentioned in paragraphs 11 and I, respectively. 
We have been advised verbally by Mr. Racies that the 
consumer film strip would cost no more than $16,000, including 
the first 500 prints 0 
Accordingly, this will be your authority to 
proceed with the production of that film strip under these conditions. 
As we discussed in our meeting of August 28, we would like to have 
the film strip available for distribution on or about October 15, 
and we urge that you make every effort to meet that target date. 
We appreciate the cooperation which you have given the 
Board and its staff in undertaking to develop an informative and 
appealing film strip, and we are looking forward to the excellent 
finished product which we know that you will deliver. 
Sincerely, 

2764 
UNITED STATES OF A1IERICA 
Item N o . 2 
9/4/69 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION,
 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
more of the voting shares of
 
1 
Adams County State Bank,
 
1 
Adams, Wisconsin.
 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
Nore of the voting shares of Adams County State Bank, Adams, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
b i t t e n notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
Banking for the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recom-
m e
n d a t i o n . 
The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the 
application. 

2 ? f 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on Hay 8, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7473), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views V7ith 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application vzas forwarded to 
the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing com-
ments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
b
y the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or ( b ) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Sank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 4 t h day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, llitchell, Daane, liaise1, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
l n 
t h e
 Matter of the Application of 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
1 0 r 
a
PProval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of 
The People's Bank, 
Coloma, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
S e
c t i 0 n 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l u
42( a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
Cor Poration, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company 
for 
r
 the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of GO per cent or 
m
°re of the voting shares of The People's Bank, Coloma, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
r
itten notice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of 
n
 
for the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recom 
metidati 
«-ion. The Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the 
application. 

2767 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on Hay 8, 1959 (34 Federal Register 7473), providing 
a n
 °PP°rtunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A cony of the application was forwarded to 
L
he Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing com-
ments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
b
y the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
N. 
atement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(
a
) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
o r
 0 0 later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period i s extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
T> . 
n c
 Of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 4th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Ifartin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2?68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of 
jJARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
f o r 
a
PProval of acquisition of 00 oer cent 
more of the voting shares of 
•Jne Portage County Bank, 
Almond, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C, 1042(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
c
°rporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
for 
the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of CO per cent or more 
O f t h e 
. 
c
 voting shares of The Portage County Bank, Almond, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
notice of 
or receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 
the o 
ate of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Orn
missioner
 o f f e r e d 
n
o objection to approval of the application. 

4 \ 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May C, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7473), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and viev/s with 
respect to the proposal, A copy of the application v/as forwarded to 
the Department of Justice for its consideration. Time for filing com-
ments and vieus has expired and all those received have been considered 
b
y the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(
a
) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or ( b ) 
later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 
4th day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, ilaisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P # Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
o 
(SEAL) 

2770 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D . C . 
In the Matter of the Application of
 
1 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION,
 
1 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
 
1 
f
°r approval of acquisition of 80 per cent 
' 
°r more of the voting shares of
 
1 
Westfield State Bank,
 
1 
WestfieId, Wisconsin.
 
1 
- - - - - - 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
8 e
ction 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1342(a)(3)) a n d section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock 
Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, a registered bank holding company, 
f°r the Board's prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or 
m
°re of the voting shares of Westfield State Bank, Westfield, Wisconsin. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n
°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking for 
J.L 
State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. 
The 
Commissioner offered no objection to approval of the application. 

2771 
-2-
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 0, 1969 (34 Federal Register 7474), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposal. A copy of the application was forwarded to 
the Department of Justice for its consideration. 
Time for filing com-
ments and views has expired and all those received have been considered 
b
y the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
provided that the acquisition so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
o r
 (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D . C., this 4 t h day of September 1969. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Martin and 
Governors Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Sherrill. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P . Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

O m ^ O 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATIONS BY 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK CORPORATION, MILWAUKEE, WISCONSIN, 
FOR APPROVAL OF THE ACQUISITION OF VOTING SHARES OF 
ADAMS COUNTY STATE BANK, ADAMS, THE PORTAGE COUNTY BANK, ALMOND, 
THE PEOPLE'S BANK, COLOMA AND WESTFIELD BANK, WESTFIELD, 
ALL OF WISCONSIN 
STATEMENT 
Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
( Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, has applied to the 
B
°ard 0 f Governors, pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding 
c
°mpany Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)), for prior approval of the 
a c <
luisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Adams County 
State Bank, Adams ("Adams Bank"); The Portage County Bank, Almond 
< Almond Bank"); The People's Bank, Coloma ("Coloma Bank"); and Westfield 
B a t
*k, Westfield ("Westfield Bank"), all of Wisconsin, sometimes referred 
t 0 h e r e
i n collectively as the "Banks". While each of the applications 
^as been separately considered and is the subject of a separate Board 
r c
*
e r
 h
e
* e i n , because of facts and circumstances common to all the appli-
a t
i o n s , this Statement contains the Board's findings and conclusions 
X 7 l t h r e s
p e c t to the four applications. 

2773 
-2-
Applicant controls seven banks (six of xjhich are in the 
Milwaukee area), with aggregate total deposits of approximately 
$560 million.-^ 
The Banks are located in four adjoining counties north-
west of Milwaukee, and none of them is located less than 75 miles from 
any of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 
The Banks have aggregate 
^ p o s i t s of approximately $27 million, as follows: 
Coloma Bank, 
$11 million; Adams Bank, $7 million; VJestfield Bank, $5 million; and 
Almond Bank, $4 million. A majority of the shares of each Bank is held 
by two shareholders, who dominate the management of each Bank. 
This 
affiliation has existed as to three of the Banks since 1945, and as to 
the fourth since 1952. 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, notice of receipt of the applications 
V 7 a
s given to the Uisconsin Commissioner of Banking, and his views and 
r e
commendation were requested. The Commissioner offered no objection to 
approval of the applications. 
Statutory considerations. - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in a 
monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to 
Monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any 
Part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed acqui-
sition the effect of which, in any section of the country, may be 
- 
Unless otherwise noted, banking data are as of December 31, 1963, 
j-
e
fer to insured commercial banks, and have been adjusted to reflect 
oldi ng company formations and acquisitions for which Board approvals 
ave been issued to date. 

-3-
^ 7 4 
substantially to lessen com] etition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or 
which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless the 
Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction 
are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of 
the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to 
he served, 
in each case the Board is required to take into consideration 
t
he financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the bank 
holding company and the banks concerned, and the convenience and needs of 
t h
e community to be served. 
Competitive effect of the proposed transaction. - The 10 largest 
hanking organizations in Wisconsin, which include eight of the 11 
Wisconsin-based bank holding companies, control $3.4 billion of total bank 
deposits in the State or almost 40 per cent of such deposits, and the 
three largest of these organizations, all holding companies, control about 
per cent. Applicant, the third largest, controls 6.6 per cent. 
After 
a c
quisition of the Banks, Applicant would control an additional .3 per cent 
o f
 total bank deposits in the State. Thus, acquisition of Bank would have 
l i
ttle effect on Applicant's share of control. 
The Banks are located between 100 and 150 miles of the Milwaukee 
a r e a
» where six of Applicant's present subsidiaries are located, and 75 
m
iles from Applicant's seventh subsidiary. Applicant's lead bank is the 
Principal correspondent of the four Banks and also holds correspondent 
balan 
£ 
nces of six other banks which compete within the Banks' service areas. 
°wever, apart from these correspondent accounts, the amount of deposits 

> # j 
-2-
loans which Applicant's group derives from the Banks
1
 service areas 
is insignificant. 
Similarly insignificant are the amounts of deposits 
a
nd loans which the Banks derive from the service areas of Applicant's 
subsidiaries. 
Four other banks are located in the combined service areas of 
t t l e B a
n k s , and the latter hold 54 per cent of the aggregate deposits of 
these eight banks. Twenty-five banks (with deposits ranging from 
$ 1 
million to $34 million) compete within the Banks' combined service 
areas, and the Banks hold 11 per cent of the aggregate deposits of these 
2 5
 banks. 
Each of the Banks is the only bank located in their home cities 
frhich are very small), and except for Coloma Bank, which has four 
offices, each Bank has only one office. The shortest distance betxjeen 
a t l y t v ; o o f 
t h
e Banks' offices is nine miles. Uhen viewed from the stand-
Point of banks and banking offices located in their respective service 
r
eas, the Banks hold substantial shares of commercial deposits, as 
°Uows: Almond Bank, 54 per cent; Coloma Bank, 34 per cent; Uestfield 
Bank 
^q 
> 
per cent; and Adams Bank, 76 per cent. However, if account is 
n
 °f all banks competing in the Banks' service areas, the Banks' 
r c
entagea of deposits are markedly reduced: 
Almond Bank has deposits 
equal #-0 , 
«-o or per cent of total deposits held by all competing banks in its 
servi 
c
e area; Coloma Bank, 9 per cent; Uestfield Bank, 6 per cent; and 
m s
 Bank, 21 per cent. Taking the four-county area in which the Banks 
located, the Banks as a group hold 21 per cent of the deposits of the 
1 7 b
anks located there. 

/ « 
-2-
In view of the long-standing affiliations of the Banks, and 
the resulting area deposits concentration, consummation of the proposed 
acquisitions would result in no increase in concentration in the 
relevant areas. 
As to competition between and among the Banks, their common 
ownership and management make it unlikely that there is any effective 
competition between them. Further, the expressed reluctance of the 
Banks
1
 largest stockholder to sell the Banks separately makes it unlikely 
that effective competition would develop in the foreseeable future. 
The 
substantial distances between the Banks and Applicant's present subsid-
iaries and State restrictions on branch banking make it unlikely that 
future competition between the Banks and Applicant's present subsidiaries 
*>ould develop. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would not substantially lessen competition, tend to create a monopoly, nor 
in any other manner restrain trade in any relevant section of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. - The 
financial condition of Applicant and its present subsidiaries is 
Severally satisfactory; and management is considered competent. 
Future 
Prospects for the group appear favorable. 
The capital positions of Almond Bank and Coloma Bank are in 
U G e d 
o f
 strengthening, a deficiency that Applicant has stated it will 
remedy by supplying additional capital if the applications are approved, 
other respects the financial and managerial resources of the Banks, 

O ••^'tfs 
^ / 
i 
-2-
and their future prospects, are satisfactory. The Board concludes that 
considerations under the banking factors are consistent with and lend 
some weight towards approval. 
Convenience and needs of the community involved. - The land in 
the Banks
1
 service areas, while not of high quality, produces very high 
yields of certain staple vegetables if properly irrigated. 
Financing 
required to accomplish a desirable type and degree of irrigation is 
Presently arranged through participations by the area banks with corres-
pondent banks, including Applicant's lead Bank. Applicant asserts that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition would facilitate such financings 
a n d 
t l l u s
 contribute to the area's growth. Applicant also proposes to 
make available to and through the Banks additional services not now 
offered or readily available. Considerations relating to the conven-
ience and needs of the community served by the Banks provide weight in 
f
avor of approval of the applications. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
f a C t s
 contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
f o r
t h in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed transactions would be in the public interest and that the 
a
PPlications should be approved. 
S e
Ptember 4, 1969. 

2778 
Ok-f^'li 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• R T H E 
Item N o . 3 
9/4/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O "THE 
B O A R D 
September 4, 1969 
The Honorable Randolph W . Thrower, 
Commissioner of Internal Revenue, 
Internal Revenue Service, 
Washington, D . C. 
20224. 
Dear Mr. Thrower: 
This letter is to confirm that the Federal Reserve 
monthly report on foreign branch assets and liabilities 
(Form F.R. 502) and the annual supplement to that report 
(Form F.R 0 503) will be available to the Treasury and can 
be used for the same purpose as Treasury Form 3954. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary. 
: ! yc.it .'< 

> 7 9 
B O A R D 
• F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 4 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9 / 4 / 6 9 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 5, 1969 
Dear Sir: 
Enclosed is a copy of a new monthly report form (F.R. 502) 
covering the assets and liabilities of foreign branches of member banks, 
an annual supplement (F.R. 503) for foreign branches that are exempt 
from filing monthly on form F.R. 502, and a list of international finance 
subsidiaries for use by branches in completing F.R. 502. 
(A list of 
official institutions is available on request.) 
A supply of the forms 
and list is being sent to you under separate cover. " 
Reports are to be filed on F.R. 502 *is of the last business 
oay of the calendar month by member banks on behalf of all branches in 
the Bahamas (and for other branches that may later be designated by the 
Board of Governor:?); for all branches in Europe with total liabilities 
Payable in U.S. dollars amounting to $10 million or more; and for all 
other foreign branches with total liabilities payable in U.S. dollars 
amounting to $30 million or more. 
If the total liabilities payable in 
l J
-S. dollars of a branch in Europe amount to $10 million or more, or or 
any other branch outside the Bahamas amount to $30 million or more, as 
of the last business day of any month in a given calendar year, reports 
should continue to be filed for that branch for each remaining month 
in the calendar year regardless of the amounts of liabilities of that 
"ranch payable in U.S. dollars on subsequent reporting dates during the 
calendar year. 
Any foreign branch that is exempt from filing form F.R. 502 
c i s
 of the close of business on the last business day of September in 
the country where the branch is located should file a report on F.R. 503 
a s
 of that date. 
The first report on F.R. 502 or F.R. 503 is to be prepared 
by 
foreign branches as of September 30, 1969. Reports on F.R. 502 
should be filed with your Bank by member banks not later than October 27, 
1969; reports ori F.R. 503 should be filed with your Bank not later than 
November 17, 1969. 

2790 
-2-
This monthly report and the annual supplement, together 
with the monthly report on U.S. dollar deposits and direct borrowings 
(F.R. 501) on which reporting began as of June 30, 1969, complete the 
reporting system for foreign branches that was approved by the System 
Research Advisory Committee, the Conference of Presidents, and the 
Board. 
The monthly report F.R. 502 has been revised as a result of 
extensive discussions with a panel of bankers convened by the Budget 
Bureau; as revised, it provides for collection of the essential 
information called for in the original report form approved by the 
SRAC. 
Much oi: the information to be reported on F.R. 502 is 
already reported on Treasury IET Form 3954. However, the form 
F.R. 502 has several major advantages over the Treasury form. 
Most important, it provides that all reports be filed as 
of the last business day in a calendar month. Also,, forms F.R. 502 
a
nd F.R. 503 will contain additional information useful in assessing 
the balance-of-pcyments and monetary policy implications of the 
activities of the branches. 
In particular, these forms will show 
outstanding foreign branch claims on U.S. residents, which are not 
reported separately on the Treasury form. 
Form F.R. 502. will also 
show the extent to which U.S. resident deposits in foreign branches 
consist of deposits by financing subsidiaries of U.S. direct invest-
ment companies, end will provide information on the extent to which 
U.S. residents have placed long-term deposits payable in U.S. dollars 
in foreign branches. 
The Treasury has agreed to accept reports filed by any 
foreign branch on F.R. 502 or F.R. 503 as meeting the obligation of 
that branch to report on its IET Form 3954 beg/.nning with reports 
for October 1969, if it reports on F.R. 502 or>F.R. 503 in accordance 
v?
ith the reporting requirements of those forms. 
Both the IET Form 
3954 and forms F.R. 502 or F.R. 503 should be filed for the month 
of September, providing for a one-month overlap. 
The Treasury will 
notify the banks of this procedure shortly. Under the reporting 
exemptions provided for the Federal Reserve forms, monthly reports 
a
re expected to be filed for approximately 100 foreign branches, 
whereas more than 350 foreign branches are currently filing monthly 
reports on Treasury Form 3954. 
The substitution for more than 250 
foreign branches of a requirement to file a very brief annual report 
°n F.R. 503 rather than to file a monthly report on Treasury Form 3954 
represents a significant reduction in total reporting burden on the 
banks. 

r 
-2-
Although the report form F.R. 502 ccvers the foreign branches 
of member banks, it would be highly desirable to have reports filed by 
nonmember banks for foreign branches in the Bihamas, for foreign branch 
in Europe with U.S. dollar liabilities of $10 million or more and other 
foreign branches with U.S. dollar liabilities of $30 million or more. 
In order to assure correct reporting on forms F.R. 501, 502, 
and 503, it would be advisable if all three reports were filed with 
the Division of your Bank that collects information on Treasury IET 
Form 3954 and/or the Treasury Foreign Exchange Forms B-l, B-2, and 
B-3. 
After review for reasonableness and internal consistency, 
and after the appropriate code numbers have b e e n entered, a copy of 
the report filed for each branch should be sent to Mr. Pflueger of 
the Board's Division of Data Processing. Please retain a copy of the 
form for your records in order to facilitate rechecking with the 
reporting banks. 
A technical memorandum providing more detailed instructions 
for processing these reports will be forwarded to your Bank as soon 
as it is available. Please advise Mr. Pflueger of the name of the 
person at your Bank who will handle processing of the reports. 
If you should have any questions about the forms, please 
call Mr. Gemmill of the Board's Division of International Finance. 
Very truly yours, 
rY? 0 
o ^ v 
. 
^ 
j i 
j 
s^r^K 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
Copy to: Headz of Research at each Reserve Bank 
MemberJ of Committee on Current Reporting 
Series at each Reserve Bank 

2782 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/4/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
September 4, 1969 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
' " 
Mr. Darryl R. Francis, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, 
St. Louis, Missouri. 
63166 
Dear M r . Francis: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salary 
to M r . Anthony C. Cremerius, Jr., as Assistant Vice President 
at the Memphis Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
at an annual salary rate of $14,000 for the period October 1 
through December 31, 1969. This is the rate fixed by your Board 
of Directors as reported in your letter of August 7, 1969. 
The Board of Governors interposes no objection to 
the designation of Paul I. Black, Jr., as Assistant Vice President 
and Assistant Manager at the Memphis Branch with no change in 
his current salary of $16,000 per annum. 
Very truly yours, 
litv^cxoi'j' 
i m p o r t . Iu. your. Ivtccoc of -.jv.ly 
iVo'*. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

BOARD DF 
GOVERNORS 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• K T H E 
Item No. 6 
9/4/69 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
September 4, 1969 
u ii 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Charles J. Scanlon, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Scanlon: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of salaries 
to officers of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago listed below 
for the period October 1 through December 31, 1969. 
These salaries are at the rates fixed by your Board of 
Directors as reported in your letter of July 24, 1969. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Name 
Title 
Annua 1 
Salary 
Fred A . Dons 
Frederick S. Dominick 
General Auditor 
Assistant General Auditor 
$25,000 
20,000 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
