^09 
Minutes for
 
M a r c h 
1 4>
 
1 9 6 ? 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include, a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act, 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 

^979 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Holland, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. plotkin, Senior Attorney, and Shuter, 
Attorney, Legal Division 
Reports on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
acquisition of assets and assumption of liabilities of Farmers Savings 
Sank of Clifton Hill, Clifton Hill, Missouri, by Salisbury Savings Bank, 
Salisbury, Missouri, was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Corporation. The conclusion stated that the proposed acquisition would 
n o t have adverse competitive effects. 
A report to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on the 
competitive factors involved in the proposed merger of Bank of Illinois 

980 
3/14/67 
-2-
Valley, Gave Junction, Oregon, into Western Bank, Coos Bay, Oregon, was 
approved unanimously for transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion 
stated that the proposed merger would not have adverse competitive 
effects. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Order granting the request of Commercial 
1 
Bancorp, Inc., Miami, Florida, for an 
extension of time to acquire stock of 
Bank of Palm Beach and Trust Company, 
Palm Beach, Florida, under the Board's 
order dated December 29, 1966. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
2 
New York approving payment of fees to 
special counsel in excess of prior 
authorizations for services rendered 
in connection with litigation seeking 
a reduction in the assessed valuation 
°f the Buffalo Branch real estate and 
a recovery of taxes related to the 
overassessment. 
Memorandum dated March 10, 1967, from 
3 
Solomon, Director, Division of 
International Finance, regarding System 
attendance at the training course to be 
offered by the Center for Latin American 
Monetary Studies in 1967. 
Registration under Regulation F. There had been distributed a 
Memorandum dated March 9, 1967, from the Legal Division recommending 

981 
3/14/67 
-2-
the adoption of a simplified form for registration under Regulation F 
(Securities of Member State Banks) of certain classes of a bank's 
securities. 
The Bank of New York, New York, New York, a State member bank, 
had registered a certain class of equity securities pursuant to sec-
tion 12(g)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Regulation F, 
and subsequently had filed periodic reports required under Regulation F 
so that financial and other pertinent information was publicly available. 
Bank of New York had now issued another class of equity stock that it 
would also be required to register under the terms of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 and Regulation F. Bank of New York had requested 
the Board to rule that a bank need not file an additional registration 
statement under Regulation F with respect to a second class of equity 
securities where the bank had previously filed a registration statement 
with respect to another class of equity securities and where information 
such as would be contained in the second registration statement would 
already be publicly available. The Legal Division recommended that this 
request be denied on the grounds that such a ruling would tend to defeat 
certain of the objectives of the Securities Exchange Act. 
Alternatively, Bank of New York requested that the Board adopt 
a simplified form of registration similar to that authorized for use in 
such circumstances by the Securities and Exchange Commission. The form 
w°uld in effect supplement the original registration statement filed by 

982 
3/14/67 
-2-
the bank. The Legal Division recommended that such a form be approved 
for use under specified conditions and that a notice of proposed adoption 
of the form be published in the Federal Register for comment. Attached 
to the distributed memorandum was a draft form for Board consideration. 
Summary comments by Mr. Plotkin were followed by replies to 
questions through which members of the Board confirmed the circumstances 
in which use of the proposed form would be permitted. 
It was then agreed unanimously to publish in the Federal Register 
a notice of prospective adoption of the proposed form, to be known as 
Form F-10, with 15 days allowed for the receipt of comments. It was 
understood that copies of the notice would be sent to the Federal Reserve 
Banks and that appropriate advice would be furnished The Bank of New York. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated March 9, 1967, 
requesting that the Board authorize payment of the cost of a dinner at 
the Shoreham Hotel on March 29, 1967, in connection with the biennial 
Conference of General Auditors of the Federal Reserve Banks, it being 
understood that the total cost, including all services, would be within 
the rate of $10 per person. 
(In this connection, Governor Shepardson 
also authorized the issuance of invitations to the persons designated 
°n a list attached to the memorandum.) 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
March 10, 1967, requesting that the Board authorize reimbursement to 
academic consultants for any of the following expenses incurred in 
connection with their participation in a Board seminar, with the under-
handing that such expenses would be charged to the nonpersonal services 
Account of the Special Project Budget for Academic Consultants: 

983 
3/14/67 
-5-
Postage and Expressage 
Telephone and Telegraph 
Printing and Binding 
Stationery and Supplies 

Item No. 
3/14/67 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
the Matter of the Application of 
' 
COMMERCIAL BANCORP, INC., 
' 
MIAMI, FLORIDA, 
» 
approval of the acquisition of voting
 
1 
shares of Bank of Palm Beach and Trust
 
1 
C cmpany, Palm Beach, Florida.
 
f 
ORDER EXTENDING PERIOD OF TIME 
PRESCRIBED BY PROVISO IN ORDER OF APPROVAL 
WHEREAS, by Order dated December 29, 1966, the Board of 
Governors, pursuant to section 3(a) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
o f 1956 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a), as amended by Public Law 89-485), and 
S e ction 222.4(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.4(a)), 
aPproved an application on behalf of Commercial Bancorp, Inc., Miami, 
ti-i 
°
rida, a registered bank holding company, for approval of the acqui-
s i tion of a minimum of 80 per cent of the outstanding voting shares 
* Bank of Palm Beach and Trust Company, Palm Beach, Florida; and 
S aid Order was made subject to the proviso "that the acquisition so 
^Proved shall not be consummated , . . (b) later than three months 
the date of the Order" and 

985 
WHEREAS, Commercial Bancorp, Inc., has applied to the Board 
for an extension of time within which the approved acquisition shall 
be consummated, and it appearing to the Board that reasonable cause has 
b^en shown for the extension of time requested, and that such extension 
^Ould riot be inconsistent with the public interest; 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, that the Board's Order of December 29, 
1^66, as published in the Federal Register on January 6, 1967 
(32 
Federal Register 102), be, and it hereby is, amended so that the 
Proviso relating to the date by which the acquisition approved shall be 
c°nsummated shall read "(b) later than May 29, 1967." 
Dated at Washington, D. C, this 14th day of March, 1967. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

^986 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/14/67 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March iu, 1967 
John J. Clarke, 
Vice President and General Counsel, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
Mew York, New York. 
10045 
°
Gar Mr. Clarke: 
The Board approves the request in your letter dated March 8, 
, for authorization for the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to 
p ay special counsel's fees of up to $5,250 in excess of the prior 
Authorization of $10,750, to the firm of Ohlin, Damon, Morey, Sawyer 
Moot, in connection with a law suit by the Bank to reduce the 
a ssessed valuation of the Buffalo Branch real estate and to recover 
Pai-d taxes.-
It is understood that the Bank has agreed to discontinue 
l e litigation in exchange for an agreement by the Board of Assessors 
the City of Buffalo to reduce the assessed valuation of such real 
®
state by $248,000, and that this is expected to result in a reduc-
l°n in tax liability of approximately $18,000 per year, for at least 
t W o years. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

^987 
Item No. 3 
3/14/67 
March 10, 1967. 
TO: 
Board of Governors 
FROM: Robert Solomon 
SUBJECT: Trainee 
for CEMLA 
for 1967. 
The New York Bank has nominated Mr. M. A. Alvarez, 
an economist in their Domestic Research Division, whose 
responsibilities include the preparation of projections of 
GNP, unemployment and other economic statistics f to attend 
the CEMLA training course in Mexico City this year. The 
course begins on May 2, and ends on September 22, including 
the final three weeks in Washington and New York. 
Mr. Alvarez is well qualified to participate in the 
CEMLA course and should represent the System well. 
No other Federal Reserve Bank has nominated a candi-
date and there is no qualified Board staff member that we wish 
to nominate this year. 
I recommend that the Board approve Mr. Alvarez's 
participation in the CEMLA course. Draft letters notifying 
Pre sider.t Hayes of the Board's approval and informing CEMLA 
°f this selection are attached. 
,t 
r 
t \ 
J 
