MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
July 27, 1970 

zim 
Minutes of a meeting of the available members of the Board 
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on Monday, July 27, 19 70. 
The meeting was held in the Board Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Defense Planning Coordinator 
and Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 1/ 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
; i 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Byrn, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
v tiuib ..•.-;••.,. • 
- 
.... .. 
. 
• 
The usual weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copi e s of the statistical materials prepared for today's review have 
been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
After discussion based on today's review, staff members who 
had attended the meeting for that purpose withdrew and Messrs. Hexter, 
Assistant to the Board; O'Connell, General Counsel; Farrell, Director, 
Di j , ' 
• ' 
uivision of Federal Reserve Bank Operations; Ring, Assistant Director, 
J**) J • , J I 
division of Rederal Reserve Bank Operations; Lyon and McClintock, 
-1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

2183 
7/27/70 
-2-
Assistant Directors, Division of Supervision and Regulation; and 
Halley, Assistant Controller, entered, along with other appropriate 
members of the staff. 
Actions taken at this meeting were subject to ratification 
at a meeting of the Board at which a quorum was present. 
United Jersey Banks. Issuance of an order and statement 
reflecting approval on July 16, 1970, of the application of United 
Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey, to become a bank holding com-
pany through acquisition of shares of five New Jersey banks was 
authorized. Copies of the documents are attached under Item No. 1, 
along with a copy of the letter sent to applicant. 
Study of Regulation Q. Mr. Holland discussed a proposal of 
the Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks that a 
study be made of Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. It had been 
suggested that the Board might want to participate, with three Board 
members and three Presidents heading the study team. 
After discussion it was decided that, while it would be 
appropriate for the Presidents to make their own study, it would 
not be desirable for the Board to participate. 
Such participation, 
it was noted, might have the effect of inhibiting the Board in its 
later decisions in a regulatory area that was clearly within the 
Board's authority. However, it was agreed that it would be desirable 
for members of the Board's staff to keep in contact with the study 

2 1 9 0 
7/27/70 
-3-
by the Presidents' Conference as it proceeded. The Board also 
concluded that no public announcement of a study by the Conference 
would seem necessary. 
(Note: A copy of the letter sent to President Coldwell in 
the light of this discussion is attached as Item No. 2.) 
Presidential Commission. Governor Maisel reported on a 
meeting with Professor Almarin Phillips, chief of staff for the 
Presidential Commission on Financial Structure and Regulation, during 
which some of the problems facing the Commission were reviewed by 
i
 
7 
Professor Phillips, the Board's continued cooperation was requested, 
and the deadline was extended for the paper to be written by the 
Board's staff outlining major areas of bank regulation. 
V-loan information. 
In a memorandum dated July 23, 1970, 
Mr. Molony reported that the Board had received a letter from a 
lawyer working for the Ralph Nader organization requesting extensive 
information about V-loans. It was proposed to refer the inquirer to 
^be guaranteeing agencies, with attention called to the fact that the 
Federal Reserve acts only as a fiscal agent. Also, mention would be 
wade in the response of the exemptions from disclosure under the 
Public Information Act. 
After discussion, unanimous approval was given to a letter 
in response to the request in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
Board expenditures. Governor Robertson reported that additional 
conditioning and a security alarm system in the Watergate computer 

2 1 < j l 
7/27/70 
-4-
room would require an expenditure of $32,000, which had not been 
budgeted, and that the housing study required $5,800, also not 
budgeted, for the retention of an additional consultant. 
These expenditures were unanimously approved, subject to 
ratification. 
Chairman Burns suggested, in this connection, that the 
authority vested in Governor Sherrill to approve proposed budget 
overexpenditures be broadened. He also suggested that additional 
proposals for delegation of authority be presented to the Board for 
its consideration from time to time. 
Interest rate on savings deposits in Massachusetts. 
Governor 
Robertson reported, in comments supplementing his memorandum of 
July 24, 1970, that the Massachusetts State Banking Commissioner in-
tended to permit institutions whose deposits were not Federally 
insured to pay 5-1/4 per cent on regular savings accounts and 5-1/2 
per cent on special notice (90-day) accounts effective August 1, 1970. 
This raised the question whether a 1/4 percentage point increase in 
the rates payable on savings deposits at Federally insured institutions 
would be in order, and that question was being studied by the super-
visory agencies. 
It was decided to defer any action regarding the rates payable 
°n savings deposits at member banks in Massachusetts until the staff 
could study the situation further and the views of the Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation were available. 

2192 
7/27/70 
-5-
Treasury borrowing from Federal Reserve. Mr. Cardon reported 
that the Board's views had been requested on an enrolled bill that 
would extend the Treasury's authority to borrow from the Federal 
Reserve in amounts up to $5 billion outstanding at any one time. 
It was agreed that the Board should recommend approval of 
the bill. A copy of the letter sent to the Office of Management and 
Budget is attached as Item No. 4. 
Contingency planning. Mr. Holland reported on progress in 
contingency planning, particularly with respect to loans that might 
be made under paragraph 3 of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The ensuing discussion related to phases of the matter such 
as the capability of Federal Reserve Banks to analyze requests for 
emergency credit, a possible broadening of eligibility rules, criteria 
for the establishment of rates on extensions of credit, and the mech-
anisms that should be provided for consideration of any large loans 
and for the absorption of any losses incurred. In the light of the 
discussion, understandings were reached on questions that would be 
Pursued by the Board's staff with the Reserve Banks and on subjects 
r egarding which memoranda were to be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
Money supply data. Chairman Burns noted that he had asked 
Mr. Molony to gather a group of financial writers for a discussion 

< < l f j 3 
7/27/70 
-6-
of the money supply, including definitions and ways of measuring 
growth, in the thought that such a discussion might be helpful to 
the writers. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

21?) 4 
Item No. 1 
7/27/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS, 
Hackensack, New Jersey, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of all of the voting shares of Peoples 
Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, and of 
Central Home Trust Company, Elizabeth; and 
of all the voting shares (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the successors by 
merger to Peoples National Bank of 
Monmouth County, Hazelet; The Third 
National Bank,& Trust Company of Camden, 
Camden; and The Cumberland National Bank 
of Bridgeton, Bridgeton; all in New 
Jersey. 
ORDER APPROVING ACTION TO BECOME 
A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, 
New Jersey, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby Applicant 
*>ould become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all of 
the voting shares of Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, and 

2195 
-2-
of Central Home Trust Company, Elizabeth; and of all of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successors by 
merger to Peoples National Bank of Monmouth County, Hazelet; The 
Third National Bank & Trust Company of Camden, Camden; and The 
Cumberland National Bank of Bridgeton, Bridgeton; all in New Jersey. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of 
the Currency and the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and requested 
their views and recommendations. Neither objected to approval of the 
proposed transaction. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 22, 1970 (35 Federal Register 7913), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consider-
ation. The time for filing comments and views has expired and all 
those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the Board's 
Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is approved, 
Provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 

2 1 9 B 
-3-
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, July 27, 1970. 
Voting for this action: 
Chairman Burns and 
Governors Robertson, Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: 
Governor Mitchell. 
(Signed) Kenneth A . Kenyon 
(SEAL) 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
UNITED JERSEY BANKS 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
United Jersey Banks, Hackensack, New Jersey ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding C o m p a n y A c t of 1 9 5 6 , a n a p p l i c a t i o n for a p p r o v a l of a c t i o n 
t o become a registered bank holding company through the acquisition 
all the voting shares of Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack 
("Peoples Trust"); and of Central Home Trust Company, Elizabeth 
( C e n t r a l H o m e " ) ; and of a l l of the v o t i n g shares (less d i r e c t o r s ' 
^alifying shares) of the successors by merger to Peoples National 
Bank of Monmouth County, Hazelet ("Peoples National"); The Third 
National Bank & Trust Company of Camden, Camden ("Third National"); 
a n d The Cumberland National Bank of Bridgeton, Bridgeton ("Cumberland 
N ational"), all in New Jersey 
Views and recommendation of supervisory authority. - As 
Squired by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written notice 
receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the Currency, 
a n c l to the New Jersey Commissioner of Banking and requested their 
views and recommendations. The Comptroller and the Commissioner 
Of-F 
e r e d no objection to the proposal. 

2198 
- 2 -
Statutory considerations* - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States. Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monop-
oly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, 
unless the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effeet of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the 
communities to be served. In each case, the Board is required to 
t ake into consideration the financial and managerial resources and 
future prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, 
the convenience and needs of the communities to be served. 
Competitive effects of the proposed transaction. - The 
largest banking organizations in the State of New Jersey (one of 
which is a registered bank holding company) control 35 per cent of 
th 
-i' 
n e commercial deposits in the State. 
Applicant's acquisition of 
Copies Trust ($577 million deposits), Central Home ($44 million 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1969, and reflect holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved to date. 

2 1 1 9 9 
-3-
deposits), Peoples National ($26 million deposits), Third National 
($22 million deposits), and Cumberland National ($26 million deposits), 
Would position it as the second largest banking organization in New 
Jersey, controlling 5 per cent of the commercial deposits in that 
State. 
Peoples Trust, the fourth largest banking institution in New 
•Jersey (with 4 per cent of deposits), and in the First Banking District 
(with 8 per cent of deposits), presently serves two distinct markets. 
!t is the largest bank serving the Patterson market (Bergen and 
Passaic Counties) - controlling 18 per cent of deposits in that market, 
and its offices serving the Washington Market (generally Warren County) 
are the third largest of the 11 banking organizations in that market -
controlling 13 per cent of its deposits. In addition, the bank has 
°ne office in Essex County and one in Morris County, and has received 
approval to establish four others in the First District. 
The other four proposed subsidiaries are comparatively small 
institutions serving local communities within their respective markets. 
Antral Home, which primarily serves Elizabeth, is the ninth largest 
o f 12 banks in Union County and the twenty-ninth largest of 63 banks 
the Second Banking District. Peoples National, which primarily 
S erves Monmouth County, is the seventh largest of 10 banks in that 
p 
°
unty, and the thirty-eighth largest of 63 banks in the Second Banking 
Strict. Central Home and Peoples National in the aggregate hold 
than 2 per ccnt of the commercial deposits in their District. 

2200 
-3-
Cumberland National and Third National together control 
2 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in the Third Banking District. 
Cumberland National, the second largest bank in Cumberland County, is the 
seventeenth largest of 67 banks in the District, Third National is the 
smallest of three banks in the City of Camden, the fifth largest of 
eight banks in Camden County, and the twenty-second largest of 67 banks 
in the Third District. 
Because all of the proposed subsidiary banks are separated 
by substantial distances and because there are banks located in the 
areas between them, there is no more than minimal competition between 
any two of the proposed subsidiaries. The main offices of the banks 
are located in different counties and are separated by a minimum of 
18 miles and a maximum of 68 miles. 
The Board considers it unlikely that competition would 
develop between the proposed subsidiaries. New Jersey law restricts 
branching to the District in which the bank is headquartered. Accord-
ingly, Peoples Trust, the only proposed subsidiary which has the 
resources and depth of management to branch significantly, may not 
branch into areas served by the other proposed subsidiaries. They, 
in turn, even when permitted by law to branch into the markets served 
by one another, are unlikely potential entrants because of their size, 
and because of the distances separating them. 

2201 
- 2 -
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not result in a monopoly, or be in 
furtherance of any combination, conspiracy, or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any area, and would not restrain trade, 
substantially lessen competition, or tend to create a monopoly in 
any part of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant's financial condition is satisfactory and its management 
is competent. 
Its prospects - which would be dependent on the 
Prospects of its subsidiary banks - appear favorable. As applied 
t o the proposed subsidiaries, these banking factors are generally 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
Regard-
ing 
Peoples Trust, the foregoing conclusions are premised in part upon 
Applicant's intention to strengthen the capital position of that bank. 
Convenience and needs of the communities concerned. - The 
banking needs of the communities concerned generally are being ade-
quately met by existing facilities. Approval of the application, 
however, would provide a means whereby the four smaller proposed 
S ubsidiaires could increase their loan capacity arid could expand or 
^prove upon certain services such as fiduciary, credit card, and 
^
ata processing. To the extent that this occurs, the convenience and 
of the customers of the four smaller banks will be better 
8 erved. 

2202 
- 2 -
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs factors 
lend weight in favor of approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in the light of the factors set 
forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and that 
the application should be approved. 
July 27, 1970. 

B O A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N T . 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 27, 1970 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
United Jersey Ranks 
25 East Salem. Street 
Hackensack, New Jersey 
07 602 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of. Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the application of United Jersey Banks, for permission 
to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of all of 
the voting shares of Peoples Trust of New Jersey, Hackensack, and 
of Central Home Trust Company, Elizabeth; and of all the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of the successors by 
merger to Peoples National Bank of Monmouth County, Hazlet;; The 
Third National Bank & Trust Company of Camden, Camden; and The 
Cumberland National Bank of Bridgeton, Bridgeton, all in New Jersey. 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's Order, together with 
the accompanying Statement and the press release on this action. 
As noted in the Board's Statement, in approving this 
application, the Board has given weight to the plans of United 
Jersey Banks to strengthen the capital position of Peoples Trust 
of New Jersey. 
The Board will review the capital levels of the 
subsidiary banks in considering any future acquisitions. 
In connection with the provision of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the action herein approved is 
to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
E n c l o s u r e s 

B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
7/27/70 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E : 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 28, 1970 
Mr. Philip E. Coldwell, 
President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Phil: 
The Board has given consideration to the proposed study 
of Regulation Q as tentatively outlined in your letter to Chairman 
Burns of May 12, 1970. It understands that the study would focus on 
ceiling rate limitations applicable to small-denomination time and 
savings deposits and would not cover interest rate ceilings on CD's 
in denominations of $100,000 and over (except for such coincidental 
treatment as might be needed for comprehensive analysis of considera-
tions bearing on ceilings on consumer-type deposits) inasmuch as large 
CD's are essentially money market instruments involving quite different 
issues of monetary and regulatory policy. 
It is the Board's view that a study along these lines would 
be timely. As to organizational structure, the Board has concluded 
that it would be appropriate for the work to proceed under the direction 
of the Conference of Presidents, although members of the Board's staff 
would be available, to the extent desired by the Presidents, in liaison 
capacities. 
It is also the Board's view that the study should be an 
internal Reserve System matter, which we understand reflects your 
preference, and that it would not be advisable to make any public 
announcement of the initiation of the study. 
We shall be interested in having information on the progress 
of this undertaking as it unfolds. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Bob 
Robert C. Holland 
Secretary. 

fl 
m 
V . 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
7/27/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
July 27, 1970. 
M r . Pierce H. O'Donnell, 
c/o Georgetown University Law Center, 
506 E Street, N . W., 
Washington, D . C . 
Dear Mr. O'Donnell: 
Your letter of July 15, 1970, advised of a study of 
the banking industry that you were making under the direction 
of Mr. Ralph Nader and, in respect thereof, requested access to 
information concerning V-loan guarantees under section 301 of 
the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, as to which the 
Federal Reserve Banks act as fiscal agents on behalf of the 
guaranteeing agencies. You requested access to card records 
and to all documents, reports, data sheets, and related 
pertinent information concerning such guaranteed loans. You 
expressed particular interest in examining information pertain-
ing to the amount of the loans, and the names of the financial 
institutions and of the corporate borrowers. 
Enclosed is a copy of the Board's Regulation V (32A 
CFR Chapter XV--Loan Guarantees for Defense Production) issued 
by the Board pursuant to Executive Order No. 10480, as amended, 
Part III of which relates to the President's authority under 
section 301 of the Defense Production Act. Relevant provisions 
of the Act and the Executive Order are printed in the Appendix 
to the Regulation. 
Section 302 (b) of the Executive Order pro-
vides that "Each Federal Reserve Bank is hereby designated and 
authorized to act, on behalf of any guaranteeing agency, as 
fiscal agent of the United States" in connection with the V-loan 
guarantee program under section 301 of the Act. Section 302(c) 
of the Executive Order provides that such fiscal agency activity 
of the Reserve Bank shall be subject to the supervision of the 
Board and the Board's regulations. You will note that, under 
section 301(b) of the Act, no fiscal agent shall have any 
responsibility or accountability "except as agent" in taking any 
action pursuant to or under the authority of section 301 of the 
Act. 

2 2 0 6 
Mr. Pierce H. O'Donnell 
2. 
In view of the foregoing, the request in your letter 
of July 15, 1970, should have been directed to the guaranteeing 
agencies rather than to the Board. They are the principals to 
the loan guarantee transactions in question. As already 
indicated, the Federal Reserve Banks are merely agents. Accord-
ingly, it is suggested that you may wish to redirect your request 
to the guaranteeing agencies„ 
The names of all guaranteeing 
agencies are shown in section 1 of the enclosed copy of 
Regulation V . The guaranteeing agencies for the 13 outstanding 
loans in which you expressed interest are the Departments of the 
Air Force, Army and Navy, and the General Services Administration, 
Of course you will realize that your request may raise 
other questions under the Public Information Act (5 U.S.C. 552), 
which contains a number of exemptions from its public inspection 
requirements. 
Very truly yours, 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary to the Board. 
Enclosure. 

?p$mfy 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
7/27/70 
July 28, 1970 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 
20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
In answer to your request of July 22, the Board 
recommends Presidential approval of S. 3889,
 n t o amend section 
14(b) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, to extend for 
one year the authority of Federal Reserve banks to purchase 
United States obligations directly from the Treasury." 
Sincerely yours, 
(signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 
