MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 8, 1969 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 8, 1969. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
M r . Maisel 
M r . Brimmer 
M r . Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
M r . Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
M r . Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
M r . Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 1/ 
M r . Solomon, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
M r . Mblony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
M r . Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of the kind 
customarily given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. The reports were based to some extent on materials that 
had been compiled in preparation for tomorrow's Committee meeting, 
and copies of the relevant documents have been placed in the files 
of the Committee. 
All members of the research divisions who had been present 
except Mr. Axilrod of the Division of Research and Statistics and 
Mr. Norwood of the Division of International Finance then withdrew 
from the meeting. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

Z793 
9/8/69 
-2-
Messrs. Broida and Morgan also withdrew and the following entered: 
M r . Hexter, General Counsel 
M r . O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
M r . Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
M r . Ring, Assistant Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Messrs. Maguire, Shantz, and Shuter of 
the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 
Regulation G inspection program. 
The Board approved unani-
mously a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks authorizing the Banks to 
undertake inspections of lenders registered under Regulation G , Securities 
Credit by Persons Other Than Banks, Brokers, or Dealers, and outlining 
procedures to be followed in conducting such inspections. A copy of 
the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
Section 32 question. 
The Board approved unanimously a letter 
to Kelley Drye Newhall Maginnes & Warren, New York, New York, expressing 
the opinion that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 would not prohibit 
directors, officers, or employees of member banks from serving as 
directors, officers, or employees of Bank Fiduciary (Equity) Fund and Bank 
Fiduciary (Fixed Income) Fund. 
(It was understood that those funds 
would result from a reorganization of Bank Fiduciary Fund, organized 
pursuant to New York law in 1954 under the sponsorship of the Trust 
Division of the New York State Bankers Association to provide a 
* »'•"<•>< •. -ul.e 
Atjil'.ii d 
. . • i .. 
. ; 
medium for the collective investment of funds held in trust by banks 
and trust companies in the State of New York not having common trust 
funds. 
In 1954 the Board had expressed the view that the prohibitions 

9/8/69 
-3-
of section 32 were not applicable to interlocking relationships between 
member banks and Bank Fiduciary Fund.) 
A copy of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Currency and coin services. 
In 1968 the Board had concluded 
that the Federal Reserve Banks should strive for more uniformity in 
their currency and coin services and pattern them in such a way as to 
enhance the value of membership in the Federal Reserve System. In a 
letter of November 8 of that year the Board transmitted to the 
Conference of Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks a proposed 
policy statement with respect to currency and coin services and 
requested comments. 
The matter was then referred by the Presidents to 
the Conference of First Vice Presidents. 
i 
As the result of action taken at its meeting on May 5, 1969, 
the Conference of First Vice Presidents submitted to the Board an 
amended version of the policy statement that fell short of the Board's 
objectives in two respects. 
First, it contained no basis for determining 
whether a Reserve Bank should engage in the wrapping of coin. 
Second, 
it did not provide for free pickup and delivery service to member banks 
in Federal Reserve cities. 
In a memorandum of August 27, 1969, the Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations expressed the view that a compromise policy 
statement could be worked out, particularly if it allayed the fears of 
Reserve Banks not presently wrapping coin that they would be forced into 

2795 
t 
9/8/69 
-4-
such an operation promptly. 
The Division proposed that a revised 
statement of policy, in form submitted with the memorandum, be 
transmitted to the Conference of First Vice Presidents for review. 
The Division noted that as a follow-up the Board could also request 
the Conference of First Vice Presidents to undertake a coin-wrapping 
feasibility study. 
After a brief discussion during which Governor Mitchell spoke 
in support of the procedure recommended by the Division, unanimous 
approval was given to the sending of the proposed letter to the 
Chairman of the Conference of First Vice Presidents. A copy of the 
letter, with its attachment, is attached as Item No. 3. 
Union election. 
Mr. O'Connell presented information with 
respect to a union election involving employees of the Building 
Department of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia that was scheduled 
to be held later this month. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
- 
. :iii • u *i i i" 
vi a 
;*]••• < - 
v ij.- n-J-r-a. . . v. 
• 

Of coy.' •. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item N o . 1 
9/8/69 
S-2103 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TQ THE BOARD 
September 9, 1969 
Dear Sir: 
This letter refers to procedures for inspection under sec-
tion 17(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. g 78q(b)), 
of persons registered with the Board of Governors as lenders, pursuant 
to the Board's Regulation G , "Securities Credit by Persons other than 
Banks, Brokers, or Dealers." 
You will recall that while violations 
of the regulation are referred by the Board to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and the Department of Justice, which are the 
agencies responsible for enforcing the Board's margin regulations, 
the statutory duty of inspecting lenders remains with the Board. 
In a preparatory program, 35 pilot inspections were con-
ducted in 3 Reserve Districts, with the participation of staff 
representing all 12 Reserve Banks. On the basis of experience obtained 
through the pilot inspections, a handbook has been prepared by the 
Board's staff, with the benefit of comments and suggestions from all 
the Reserve Banks, setting forth standard procedures to be followed. 
Copies of the revised handbook are enclosed herewith, for the use 
of inspectors. An additional supply of the handbook will be sent 
under separate cover. 
As provided by section 261.4(b) of the Board's Rules Re-
garding Availability of Information <12 CFR 261.4(b)), copies of the 
handbook and attached blank forms should be maintained at each Bank 
for public inspection and copying. Completed inspection reports, 
however, should not be made available either to the public or to the 
subject of the inspection, but are regarded as exempt from disclosure 
under sections 261.6(a)(2), (3), (4), and/or (7) of the regulation 
(12 CFR 261.6(a)(2), (3), (4), and/or (7)). 
Your Bank is hereby authorized, on behalf of the Board to 
inspect persons subject to registration under Regulation G in your 
district. Inspection of registrants that were not inspected in the 
pilot program (other than those supervised by the Bureau of Federal 
Credit Unions and the Small Business Administration) should be com-
pleted at the earliest opportunity. Thereafter, new registrants 
should be inspected within six months after registration, and all 

registrants (other than Federal credit anions and small business 
investment companies, as above) should be inspected at least once 
each year. 
Your Bank is hereby also authorized to appoint qualified 
individuals from among members of your staff to conduct such inspec-
tions. 
Such authorized inspectors should carry identification 
issued by your Bank. A supply of identification cards will be 
sent shortly. As in the case of identification cards issued to bank 
examiners, such cards should be accounted for and destroyed when an 
inspector is transferred to another function or leaves the Bank's 
employment. 
As set forth in Part I of the handbook, "General Instruc-
tions and Definitions,
 ! inspections should be made on a surprise 
basis. However, as noted in the Foreword, the Reserve Banks are 
authorized to exercise discretion in scheduling inspections. 
In a 
few instances where registrants' offices are operated in their homes 
and/or geographically isolated, cost of travel would be increased 
and inspectors' time lost if, on arrival, the registrant were not 
available. 
In such instances, limited advance notice might be 
appropriate. 
In addition, in some instances, it would be appro-
priate to call on the morning of the inspection to fix a convenient 
time. However, it would not be deemed advisable to alert so-called 
hard core lenders" to a pending inspection. 
It would be appreciated if your Bank would forward to the 
Board's staff any suggestions it may have after the handbook has
1been 
in use for a reasonable period of time, in order to assist in making 
the further revisions which it can be anticipated will be necessary. 
The Board's staff will continue to be available for assistance and 
consultation in connection with the inspection program. The Board 
appreciated the cooperation of the Reserve Banks in carrying out 
this program. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosures 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

** 
/yt 
Item No. 2 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
9/8/69 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2C551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CQRRESPDNCEN 
TD THE BOARD 
September 8, 1969 
> .! / cl.^s o.t oli^A-Div' 
Kelley Drye Newhall Maginnes 6c Warren, 
350 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letter of August 7, 1969, 
requesting the advice of the Board of Governors as to whether 
section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) prohibits 
officers and directors of member banks from serving as directors 
of Bank Fiduciary (Equity) Fund and Bank Fiduciary (Fixed Income) 
Fund (sometimes referred to hereinafter collectively as the "Funds"). 
Xt is proposed that the Funds will result from a reorganization of 
Bank Fiduciary Fund, which was organized pursuant to New York law 
in 1954 under the sponsorship of the Trust Division of the New York 
State Bankers Association, to provide a medium for the collective 
investment of funds held in trust by banks and trust companies in 
New York not having common trust funds. 
In December 1954, the 
Board expressed the view that the prohibitions of section 32 were 
not applicable to interlocking relationships between member banks 
and Bank Fiduciary Fund. The Board's interpretation, however, was 
predicated on the information concerning the proposed operations of 
Bank Fiduciary Fund as contemplated at that time. 
You indicate that in 1969, the New York State legislature 
amended the statute pursuant to which Bank Fiduciary Fund was 
organized. The effect of such amendment is to permit the assets 
of a fund, organized under such statute, to be invested entirely in 
stocks or bonds subject to the discretion of the fund*s managers, 
provided, however, that all such investments must still be in 
securities "legal" for investment by New York fiduciaries. 
Bank Fiduciary Fund proposes to avail itself of the 1969 
amendments to the New York statute by amending its Certificate of 
Organization so as to change its name to "Bank Fiduciary (Equity) 
Fund", and to spin off its present bond portfolio into a new in-
vestment company to be named "Bank Fiduciary (Fixed Income) Fund". 
In the future, the assets of the respective funds may be invested 
entirely in either stocks or bonds. 

Kelley Drye Newhall Magirmes & Warren - 2 -
Except with respect to the change referred to in the 
preceding paragraph, the operations of the Funds will continue along 
the sarne lines as those formerly conducted by Bank Fiduciary Fund. 
Trust companies, or banks with trust powers, doing business in New 
York, which do not themselves operate "legal" common trust funds, 
will be the only class of eligible investors in the Funds and their 
ownership interests, acquired as fiduciaries, will be nontransferable. 
In addition, the conduct and management of the Funds will continue to 
be subject to regulation and supervision by the New York State 
Superintendent of Banks. 
On the basis of the information presented, the Board has 
concluded that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 does not pro- . 
hibit officers, directors, or employees of member banks from serving 
as directors, officers, or employees of either of the Funds. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P . Forrestal 
Robett P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

,Of COi 
••ffe-^?.-
BOARD • F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
2800 
Item No. 3 
9/8/69 
address dftil:ial ciqrrebf'dndence 
TD THE EiOARD 
September 10, 1969 
Mr. Hugh J. Helmer, Chairman, 
Conference of First Vice Presidents, 
•federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
. Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Helmer: 
This refers to your letter of June 17, 1.969, and the 
statement of policy on Reserve Bank currency and coin services 
as presented in the minutes of the May 5, 1969 Conference of 
First Vice Presidents. 
The Board is of the opinion that the Reserve Banks should 
strive for more uniformity in services to member banks with the 
direction of such uniformity being to enhance membership in the 
system. With this in mind, the policy has been restated to incor-
porate certain of the recommendations of the Conference and at the 
same time to provide for free transportation on currency and coin 
service to member banks in Federal Reserve Bank cities and to 
Provide for coin wrapping. With regard to coin wrapping, it should 
be understood that there is no need for all of the Reserve Banks to 
undertake the service at this time. However, the development of 
equipment to make coin wrapping more economical and feasible should 
be encouraged, arid where appropriate equipment and space are available, 
all Reserve Banks not now wrapping coin should consider offering 
this service in the interest of System uniformity and membership. 
Accordingly, the Board would appreciate having the state-
ment as it has now been revised reviewed again to see if it is 
Possible to achieve the purposes as stated in the Board's letter of 
November 8, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert C . Holland 
Robert C. Holland, 
Secretary. 

2801 
STATEMENT OF POLICY WITH RESPECT TO 
CURRENCY AND COIN SERVICES OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
The policy with respect to member banks should be to provide 
member banks, including branches of member banks within the 
same city where practicable and economically feasible, with currency 
and coin in standard 100-note straps and mint-size bags, except 
where distribution in other forms is warranted in the judgment of the 
Reserve Bank, and in accordance with established needs, using armored 
car service on s. scheduled basis where feasible with the understanding 
that the Reserve Bank will (a) pay the cost of transportation and 
assume the risk of loss on shipments to and from offices of member 
banks, (b) not be called upon to perform excessive processing, such 
as would result from banks sending to the Reserve Banks frequent or 
unproven deposits, and (c) furnish wrapped coin where space and equip-
ment are available to perform the operation efficiently with the 
further understanding the System will study the feasibility of per-
forming coin wrapping at all offices when space and equipment that 
can be efficiently operated are available. 
The policy with respect to nonmember commercial banks and 
mutual savings banks should be to accept orders and deposits direct 
trom such banks and to make an equitable distribution of currency 
and coin to such banks upon their own request or the request of a 
member bank. 
Shipments to and from nonmember commercial banks and 
mutual savings banks will be made at the expense and risk of such 
banks, with the understanding (a) that such expense will include a 
handling charge and any other costs incurred by the Reserve Bank 
and (b) that when such a shipment is made at the request of a member 
bank such expense will be charged to the member bank. 
