Minutes for January 7, 1971 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 1 
Reduction in discount rate. 
Should you have any questions with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below to indicate approval of the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
•J • >•.* 
. u<\ r ,, 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

4 0 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Thursday, January 7, 1971. The Board met in the Board Room at 9:30 a. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Discount rate. The directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City, in addition to those of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston 
and Minneapolis, had now acted, subject to review and determination by 
the Board of Governors, to establish the following rates: 5-1/4 per 
cent (rather than 5-1/2 per cent) on advances and discounts to member 
banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act, and 5-3/4 
Per cent on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act. 
The Kansas City directors had established a rate of 6-3/4 per cent on 
advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act, while 
the Boston and Minneapolis directors had established a rate of 7 
Per cent. 
y 
Withdrew from meeting and returned at points indicated in minutes. 

41 
1/7/71 
-11-
On the basis of telephone conversations that had been conducted 
by the Board's Secretary with the Presidents of all of the Federal 
Reserve Banks pursuant to the understanding at the meeting on Tuesday, 
January 5, there were indications that the directors of several other 
Reserve Banks might act today to establish lower discount rates. 
Board members were unanimous in the judgment that the lower 
rates should be approved, effective tomorrow. 
Reference was made, 
among other things, to market rate relationships, further evidences 
of softening of the economy, adverse economic news currently being 
released, including the rise in the unemployment rate in December (to 
be announced tomorrow), and the commercial bank prime rate action 
yesterday. 
Reference also was made to the news story earlier this week 
regarding the rumor that two Reserve Banks had acted to reduce their 
discount rates. 
In this connection, Mr. Holland reported that he had 
related to all of the Presidents the Board's concern about this matter, 
that the Presidents were likewise concerned, and that it had been agreed 
that in the future informational advice on discount rate proposals 
received from individual Reserve Banks would be transmitted for the 
use of the Presidents only. Also, the Conference of First Vice Presi-
dents was being asked to look into methods for the safeguarding of 
confidential messages sent by the Board to the Reserve Banks on dis-
count rate and other matters, and to submit recommendations. 

42 
1/7/71 
-11-
Governor Brimmer noted that a press conference was to be held 
today at the Treasury to announce the Administration's balance of pay-
ments program, which would include some relaxation of existing controls. 
However, other Board members joined him in the view that this circum-
stance did not warrant deferment of the discount rate action. 
The following rates were then approved unanimously, effective 
tomorrow, for all Federal Reserve Banks whose directors had established 
such rates: 5-1/4 per cent on advances and discounts to member banks 
under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act; 5-3/4 per cent 
on advances to member banks under section 10(b) of the Act; and either 
7 per cent or 7-1/4 per cent on advances to individuals, partnerships, 
and corporations other than member banks under the last paragraph of 
section 13 of the Act. 
(Note: No action was taken by the Board on 
the rate of 6-3/4 per cent that had been established by Kansas City 
for advances under the last paragraph of section 13, so that the exist-
ing rate of 7 per cent remained in effect.) 
The Secretary was authorized to advise other Reserve Banks whose 
directors acted after today to establish the same rates as approved by 
the Board today of the approval of such rates. 
The Board authorized the issuance of a press release in the 
form attached as Item No. 1. 
(Note: Advice was received subsequently during the day that 
the directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, 

43 
1/7/71 
-11-
Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, St. Louis, and San Francisco had acted 
to establish rates of 5-1/4 per cent, 5-3/4 per cent, and 7 per cent 
(except 7-1/4 per cent in the case of New York and Chicago). 
Later, 
pursuant to the authorization given to him by the Board, the Secretary 
advised the Atlanta Bank of approval of rates of 5-1/4 per cent, 5-3/4 
per cent, and 7-1/4 per cent, effective January 11, and advised the 
Dallas Bank of approval of rates of 5-1/4 per cent, 5-3/4 per cent, 
and 7 per cent, effective January 15.) 
Governor Robertson withdrew at this point to keep another 
appointment and the following staff members entered*. 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Messrs. O'Connell, General Counsel, and Sanders, 
Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Reynolds, Associate Director, Gemmill, 
Associate Adviser, and Bradshaw, Economist, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Fry, Senior Economist, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Euro-dollars. The Board was brought up to date on the status 
°f the problem created by the continuing repayment by U.S. banks of 
their Euro-dollar liabilities. The magnitude of the further prospec-
tive outflow was discussed, and attention then focused on remedial 
steps that might be taken. The options, as far as Federal Reserve 
action was concerned, seemed to lie between an adjustment of reserve 
requirements, in such manner as to compensate banks for the differential 

1/7/71 
-5-
cost of holding their remaining Euro-dollar liabilities, and the 
offering of matched sale-purchase agreements along lines that had 
been suggested by Governor Mitchell. 
The advantages and disadvantages of the two options were 
debated at some length, following which Chairman Burns referred to a 
possible sequence of actions under which the first step would be an 
offering of special securities to the foreign branches of U.S. banks 
by the Export-Import Bank. After such offering, up to whatever limit 
might be consented to by the Bank within the overall limit of its 
statutory authority, the next step would hopefully be an offering of 
special securities by the Treasury. As a contingency measure, the 
System would hold in reserve action through one of the routes that it 
had been considering. 
The reaction of the Board members to the proposal of an Export-
Import Bank issue, hopefully supplemented by a Treasury issue or issues, 
was favorable, provided such action could be decided upon promptly. 
The Chairman then called for an expression of opinion by Board 
members on the type of contingency plan that should be held in readi-
ness by the Federal Reserve. A majority of the Board members expressed 
a preference for the matched sale-purchase plan, while two members 
(Governors Daane and Brimmer) favored the reserve requirement route. 
In response to questions, staff expressed the view that the 
MSP plan was technically feasible, although certain features of it 

45 
1/7/71 
-11-
remained to be resolved. It was understood that the staff would address 
itself to those problems promptly. 
It was also understood that a contingency plan based on the use 
of MSP1s would be brought to the attention of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. 
In this connection, the Chairman noted that resort to MSP's, if 
necessary, did not rule out the possibility of eventual use of the 
reserve requirement instrument also at a later stage, and it was under-
stood that the staff would bear that in mind in its further work. 
Members of the research staff who had attended the meeting for 
the discussion of Euro-dollars then withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Kakalec, Controller 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Halley, Assistant Controller 
Mr. Metzger and Miss Wolcott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Supporting staff members of the respective divisions. 

4 6 
1/7/71 
-11-
Implementation of Holding Company Act amendments. 
Several 
issues, on which staff papers had been prepared, relating to the imple-
mentation of the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act were 
presented for consideration. 
The first issue had to do with the latitude available to the 
Board in its administration of section 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
In a 
memorandum dated December 28, 1970, Mr. Cardon had discussed aspects 
of the legislative history bearing upon that question, and the Legal 
Division, in a memorandum of December 31, 1970, had commented on its 
understanding of the scope of the Board's authority. Among other 
things, the staff concluded that the Board was not inhibited from 
authorizing, on the basis of an appropriate record, activities by 
bank holding companies of the types contemplated in the Board's so-
called laundry list, and that the amendments to section 4(c)(8) pro-
vided the Board with considerable flexibility in its determinations. 
Comments reflected general agreement with the conclusions 
reached by the staff, including the conclusion that the recent amend-
ments did not narrow the scope of the Board's previous authority to 
determine permissible areas of activity under section 4(c)(8). 
However, there were some shadings of interpretations as to the degree 
o f flexibility currently allowed, depending principally on the meaning 
ascribed by individual Board members to the phrase "closely related to 
banking" as contrasted to "functionally related to banking." 

47 
1/7/71 
-11-
The second issue presented for consideration related to the 
procedure the Board should follow in defining permissible activities 
under section 4(c)(8). 
In a memorandum dated January 4, 1971, the 
Legal Division had considered the advantages of proceeding by way of 
regulation (a draft of proposed rule making was attached), on a case-
by-case basis, or by way of a combination of the two. For reasons set 
forth, the Division concluded that the third alternative would be 
preferable. Under this proposal, Regulation Y (Bank Holding Companies) 
would be amended, after opportunity for comment, so as to establish as 
permissible activities those activities on the Board's laundry list 
that were not included in the so-called negative laundry list of the 
House. Determinations would then be made on a case-by-case basis with 
respect to the rest of the activities on the Board's laundry list. 
There was general concurrence with the third of the three 
suggested approaches, but with some modifications. 
It was suggested 
that in publishing for comment the initial list of proposed permissible 
activities a statement should be made to the effect that this represented 
a first step, that the Board intended to move by regulation into other 
areas as well, and that suggestions would be received for expansion of 
the list of permissible activities, with hearings to be held at a 
future time. It was also suggested that the emphasis in the initial 
list of permissible activities should be on activities that were of 
the least sensitive nature from a political standpoint and relatively 

4 8 
1/7/71 
-11-
noncontroversial. 
There was some discussion as to whether a second 
list of permissible activities should be drawn up at this time, for 
consideration later, but it was concluded that such list should be 
developed on the basis of suggestions or applications received. 
It was then understood that the staff, bearing in mind the 
sensitivity of certain areas of activity and the comments at this 
meeting, would review the tentative list of proposed permissible 
activities with a view to avoiding controversial language to the 
extent possible and clarifying the lines of permissible activities 
within specified broad areas. 
It was noted also that the staff material presented certain 
questions with respect to the scope of acquisitions that would be 
Permissible under section 4(c)(5) of the Holding Company Act, and 
several comments were made for the guidance of the staff in consider-
ing that part of the proposal further. 
The third issue before the Board related to proposed changes 
in the form of bank holding company registration statement (F.R. Y-5) 
to enable the Board to obtain information considered necessary or 
appropriate. A draft form that had been distributed with a memorandum 
°f January 4, 1971, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
incorporated the thinking of that Division as well as the Banking 
Markets Section, the Legal Division, and the Federal Reserve Banks. 

49 
1/7/71 
-11-
A view was expressed that it would be helpful if the proposed 
form could be field tested before final adoption. 
It was pointed out 
that the constraints of the time schedule within which the Board must 
operate might not permit a full-scale test. However, it was agreed 
that a meeting would be arranged within the next few days with a 
representative group of bankers and other interested parties for the 
purpose of obtaining their advice regarding the proposed registration 
statement with a view to minimizing problems that might be encountered 
in its use. 
Consideration also was given to a proposed press release that 
would be issued regarding the steps being taken by the Board at this 
time, and it was understood that the draft would be revised for further 
consideration in the light of today's discussion. 
Governor Robertson returned to the meeting during the course 
°f the foregoing discussion. 
BancOhio Corporation. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated December 23, 1970, and other pertinent 
Papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in connection 
with an application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire 
shares of The Adams Bank, Millersburg, Ohio. The recommendations were 
favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of 
the order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is 
attached as Item No. 2. 

50 
1/7/71 
-11-
Hearing examiner. Mr. O'Connell reported on the status of 
discussions with the Civil Service Commission with respect to the 
possibility of securing a hearing examiner or examiners who would be 
attached to the Board's staff, for work particularly in connection 
with bank holding company cases. A meeting was scheduled for early 
next week at which he would furnish a job description, and he requested 
the views of members of the Board as to qualifications that should 
especially be sought. There followed a discussion during which the 
type of background that would appear appropriate was mentioned. 
Refer-
ence also was made to the possibility of a training program. 
Some 
reservations were expressed in terms of how far any such program should 
extend, given the theory that a hearing examiner should maintain impar-
tiality and independence, but it was generally agreed that the service 
of persons on a consulting basis should be made available. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No, 1 
1/7/71 
For immediate release 
January 7, 1971 
i 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Banks of Boston, New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, 
Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City and San Francisco 
reducing the discount rates of those banks from 5-1/2 to 5-1/4 
per cent, effective Friday, January 8. 
The move was in recognition of further declines that 
have taken place in short-term interest rates. The last change 
in the discount rate--from 5-3/4 to 5-1/2 per cent--was announced 
by the Board last November 30. 

Item N g 5 2 
1/7/71 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
1 
BANCOHIO CORPORATION, 
' 
Columbus, Ohio, 
1 
for approval of the acquisition of 
1 
80 per cent or more of the voting 
1 
shares of The Adams Bank, 
' 
Millersburg, Ohio. 
1 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
CFR 222.3(a)), the application of BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, 
°hio ("Applicant"), a registered bank holding company, for the Board's 
Prior approval of the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Adams Bank, Millersburg, Ohio ("Adams Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
Vritten notice of receipt of the application to the Superintendent 
o f Banks for the State of Ohio and requested his views and recom-
mendation. 
The Superintendent recommended approval of the application. 

-2-
53 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
f 
Federal Register on November 17, 1970 (35 Federal Register 17685), 
providing an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments 
and views with respect to the proposal. A copy of the application 
was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. 
Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
I 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of 
the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect 
of the proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and mana-
gerial resources and future prospects of the Applicant and the banks 
concerned, and the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
L. 
served. Upon such consideration, the Board finds that: 
Applicant is the second largest banking organization and 
the largest bank holding company in Ohio, controlling 26 banks with 
deposits totaling $1.3 billion, representing 6.8 per cent of deposits 
held 
by all banking organizations in the State. 
(All banking data 
a*e as of June 30, 1970, adjusted to reflect holding company forma-
tions and acquisitions approved by the Board through November 30, 
1970.) Applicant's acquisition of Bank, with deposits of $9.6 mil-
lion, would increase its share of deposits in the State by less 
than 1 per cent. Adams Bank, the second largest of four banks in 
Holmes County, controls 29 per cent of deposits in the County. 
The largest bank therein controls over 36 per cent of County 
I 

5
4 
deposits; the third largest is comparable in size to Adams Bank arid 
the smallest holds 7 per cent. First National Bank of Coshocton, 
Coshocton, the closest office of any of Applicant's subsidiary banks to 
Adams Bank, is located 24 miles to the south of Adams Bank in adjacent 
Coshocton County. Neither that bank nor Adams Bank derives a sig-
nificant amount of business from the separate county areas presently 
served by the other. Applicant's subsidiary banks do not compete with 
Adams Bank, and it does not appear that significant future competition 
^ould be foreclosed by consummation of this proposal due to the distances 
Separating the banks and limitations placed on branching by Ohio law, 
the unlikelihood that Applicant would seek de novo entry into 
Holmes County. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
°f the proposed acquisition would not have an adverse effect on compe-
tition in any relevant area. The banking factors as they pertain to 
Applicant and its subsidiary banks are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication, and, as they pertain to Adams Bank, lend strong support 
F A Y, 
approval. Affiliation with Applicant would provide added expertise 
Vj^ich could materially improve the bank's operations. Although major 
anking needs in Holmes County are being met, consummation of the pro-
p 0 sal would enable Adams Bank to offer to its customers another source 
for trust and international services. These considerations lend weight 
i n favor of approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
tea 
nsaction would be in the public interest and should be approved. 

It is hereby ordered, For the reasons set forth in the findings 
summarized above, that said application be and hereby is approved, pro-
vided that the action so approved shall not be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) later 
than three months after the date of this Order, unless such time be 
extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 7, 1971 
Voting for this action: chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane., IMa'isedr,, Brimmej:., and Sherrill. 
(Signed) 
Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A, Kenyon 
Deputy Secretary 
(SEAL) 
