Minutes for January 25, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard to 
the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will advise 
the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please initial 
below. 
If you were present at the meeting, your 
initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If 
you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 

2 6 8 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, January 25, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Shepardson 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Young, Senior Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division 
of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Miss Eaton, General Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Mr. Morgan, Staff Assistant, Board Members' 
Offices 
Mr. Forrestal, Senior Attorney, Legal Division 
Mr. Emery, Economist, Division of International 
Finance 
Time deposits of Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea and Bank of 
Taiwan (Items 1-2). A distributed memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated January 24, 1967, discussed the question whether time deposits in 
the United States of the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea were entitled 
to the exemption from interest rate limitations granted in section 19(j) 
of the Federal Reserve Act. 
According to information supplied by the Korean Government, the 
Foreign Exchange Bank (scheduled to open January 30, 1967) would carry 
on a general domestic banking business for the public but would principally 

269 
1/25/67 
-2-
function as depository of the foreign exchange reserves of the Bank of 
Korea (the central bank). 
It would not have any monetary powers, but 
it would act as agent of the Government in some matters. 
Its capital 
stock was wholly owned by the Bank of Korea, its officers were appointed 
by the Government, and it would be delegated certain official powers in 
connection with foreign exchange matters. 
In addition, the Minister of 
Finance had certified that the funds deposited in the United States were 
"Government funds" and that the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea was act-
ing as agent of the Korean Government in holding those funds. 
The recommendation of the Legal Division was that the Foreign 
Exchange Bank be considered a "financial authority" of the Korean 
Government within the meaning of section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve 
Act, and that its time deposits be exempted from the interest rate lim-
itations prescribed pursuant to section 19 and Regulation Q (Payment of 
Interest on Deposits). 
Two staff memoranda had been distributed regarding the question 
whether time deposits in the United States of the Bank of Taiwan were 
entitled to the exemption from interest rate limitations granted in 
section 19(j), one under date of November 9, 1966, and one January 24, 
1967. 
In a discussion of the November 9 memorandum at the meeting of 
the Board on November 14, 1966, it had been agreed that information 
should be obtained through the Embassy of the Republic of China as to 
whether the Bank of Taiwan's foreign exchange represented official 

270 
1/25/67 
-2-
reserves of the Central Bank of China. The Embassy had now advised 
that the foreign exchange holdings of the Bank of Taiwan were considered 
part of China's official reserves. 
It was the Legal Division's recommendation that the Bank of 
Taiwan be considered a "financial authority" of the Chinese Government 
within the meaning of section 19(j), and that its time deposits be 
exempted from the interest rate limitations prescribed pursuant to 
section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Governor Brimmer remarked that he took no exception to the rec-
ommendations of the staff. However, he raised the question whether it 
would not be a good thing to have the same kind of certification from 
the Chinese Government to correspondent banks regarding deposits of 
Bank of Taiwan as had been furnished by the Korean Minister of Finance 
regarding deposits of the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea. There might 
be other cases in the future, and this struck him as an appropriate 
safeguard. 
Governor Shepardson noted a statement that most of the funds of 
Bank of Taiwan were official funds. He inquired about the scope of the 
balance. 
Mr. Forrestal responded in the case of the Foreign Exchange 
Bank of Korea the Minister of Finance had certified the funds deposited 
with overseas correspondents to be Government funds. The Chinese Embassy 
had indicated that the foreign exchange holdings of the Bank of Taiwan 

271 
1/25/67 
-2-
were considered part of China's official reserves. The Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, however, felt that some of the funds held by Bank of 
Taiwan in the United States might not be official funds. 
It was the 
feeling of the Legal Division that the recommended exemption might be 
granted for all of the funds and no attempt made to distinguish between 
them. However, a requirement of certification such as suggested by 
Governor Brimmer would put the Korean and Chinese cases on equal footing. 
After further discussion, unanimous agreement was expressed with 
the basic recommendations of the Legal Division. However, it was agreed 
that the Chinese Government should make a certification to correspondent 
banks regarding the funds of Bank of Taiwan similar to that made by the 
Korean Minister of Finance with respect to funds of the Foreign Exchange 
Bank. 
It was also agreed that the Board's rulings would be published 
in the Federal Register and the Federal Reserve Bulletin. 
Copies of the respective rulings are attached to these minutes 
as Items 1 and 2. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Shepardson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland (copy attached as 
Item No. 3) approving the appointment of Richard T. Murray as assistant 
examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago (copy attached as 
Item No. 4) approving the appointment of Lanny E. Poel as assistant 
examiner. 

272 
1/25/67 
-2-
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Appointment 
Sonya L. Reeley as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Salary increases 
Mercy Heath, Statistical Clerk, Division of Research and Statistics, 
from $5,096 to $5,507 per annum, with a change in title to Statistical 
Assistant, effective January 29, 1967. 
Leo R. Michaels, Programmer, Division of Data Processing, from 
$5,867 to $6,451 per annum, effective January 29, 1967. 
Governor Shepardson also approved today 
on behalf of the Board a request from 
Mack R. Rowe, Chief, Economic Graphics 
Section, Division of Data Processing, 
for permission to teach a course in the 
production of instructional materials at 
the School of General Studies of the 
University of Virginia. 

273 
Item No. 1 
1/25/67 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Exemption of Time Deposits of the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea 
from Interest Rate Limitations of Regulation Q. 
Section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act exempts, until October 15, 
1968, "time deposits of foreign governments, monetary and financial 
authorities of foreign governments when acting as such, or international 
financial institutions of which the United States is a member" from the 
limitations prescribed by the Board pursuant to that section on the rates 
°f interest payable by member banks on time and savings deposits. The 
question has been raised whether this exemption is applicable to the time 
deposits of the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea. 
The Bank was established by the Foreign Exchange Bank of Korea 
Act, promulgated on July 28, 1966, and a Presidential Decree enacting that 
Act, promulgated on August 29, 1966. The Bank has been established for 
the purpose of promoting efficiency of foreign exchange operations and 
foreign trade finance and, in this regard, will handle all the international 
banking business heretofore carried on by the Bank of Korea, as well as 
certain general banking functions specified in the Act. The Foreign 
^change Bank will succeed to all the foreign assets and liabilities of the 
Bank of Korea on January 28, 1967. 
Although the Foreign Exchange Bank is not a monetary authority of 
the Korean Government, the Board is of the opinion that it may be considered 
a financial authority of that Government and acting as such. The Bank 
has been created specifically to carry out certain financial functions 
thus far performed by the central bank, and these functions are primarily 
°f an official nature. Moreover, the Korean Government has certified 

274: 
-2-
that the time deposits of the Bank in the United States are Government 
funds held by the Bank as agent of the Government* and has further 
advised the Board that a major portion of its dollar time deposits in 
the United States are considered official reserves of the Korean 
Government. 
Accordingly, the Board has concluded that the Foreign Exchange 
Bank is a financial authority of the Korean Government acting as such 
within the meaning of section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act and, 
consequently, the time deposits of the Bank are exempted from the 
limitations on interest rates prescribed by the Board pursuant to 
section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act and the Board
1s Regulation Q. 
January 26, 1967. 

275 
Item No. 2 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1/25/67 
Exemption of Time Deposits of the Bank of Taiwan 
from Interest Rate Limitations of Regulation Q. 
Section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act exempts, until October 15, 
1968, "time deposits of foreign governments, monetary and financial 
authorities of foreign governments when acting as such, or international 
financial institutions of which the United States is a member" from 
the limitations prescribed by the Board pursuant to that section on 
the rates of interest payable by member banks on time and savings de-
posits. The question has been raised whether this exemption is appli-
cable to the time deposits of the Bank of Taiwan. 
The Bank of Taiwan acted as the Central Bank of Taiwan until 
the reactivation of the Central Bank of China on July 1, 1961. After 
that time, the Central Bank resumed full responsibility for all central 
bank operations in the Republic of China except that note issue and cer-
tain fiscal agency functions were delegated to the Bank of Taiwan as 
agent for the Central Bank. In view of the fact that the Bank of Taiwan 
serves only as the agent of the Central Bank in its note issue function, 
the Bank of Taiwan is not the bank of issue of the Republic of China and 
does not otherwise serve as a monetary authority of that Government. 
The Board is of the opinion, however, that the Bank of Taiwan 
may be considered a financial authority of the Chinese Government within 
the meaning of section 19(j) of the Federal Reserve Act. In addition 
serving as agent of the Central Bank in issuing New Taiwan dollar 
aotes, the Bank of Taiwan performs several financial and fiscal functions 

2 
276 
for the Government. Moreover, it would appear that the foreign exchange 
holdings of the Bank of Taiwan in the United States are considered part 
of the Chinese Government official reserves, and that a p>art of the 
foreign exchange deposits of the Bank of Taiwan is earmarked as currency 
reserves and such deposits are made for the account of the Central Bank 
of China. 
It is the Board's opinion that the time deposits of the Bank 
°f Taiwan held by member banks are exempt from the interest rate limita-
tions of Regulation Q provided that member banks holding such time de-
Posits obtain a certification from the Chinese Government or the 
Antral Bank of China to the effect that all exempt funds now or 
hereafter deposited by the Bank of Taiwan are, and will be, official 
funds and are not and will not be funds held for, or used in connection 
^ t h , the conduct of commercial banking functions or other commercial 
Activities, so long as such funds remain in such time deposits. 
January 26, 1967. 

277 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
1/25/67 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL. CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 25, 1967 
Mr. Harry W . Huning, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Huning: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
Mr. Pugh's letter of January 20, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Richard T . Murray as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland. Please 
advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

278 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 205S1 
Item No. 4 
1/25/67 
AOOREBS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
January 25, 1967 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of January 20, 1967, the Board approves 
the appointment of Lanny E. Poel as an assistant 
examiner for the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Please advise the effective date of the appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
