FR 609 
fRev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
March 24, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

344 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
tem on Tuesday, March 24, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
- Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Nichols, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Federal 
Re serve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Adminis tration 
Mr. 01Connel1, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, and Greenspan of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Brannan, Cleaver, and Wiles of the 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Miss Greene and Messrs. Brumbaugh, Burton, and 
Lazerov of the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation 

945 
3/24/70 
- 2 -
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco on March 19, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on March 20, and by the Federal 
" ' V 
* 
Reserve Bank of Boston on March 23, 1970, of the rates on discounts and 
advances in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the 
understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Reports on competitive factors. A report on the competitive fac-
tors involved in the proposed merger of The Merchants and Farmers Bank, 
Smithfield, Virginia, into Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, 
was approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of the Cur-
rency. 
The conclusion stated that the proposed merger would have no 
adverse competitive effects. 
Unanimous approval was given to a report, for transmittal to the 
Comptroller of the Currency, on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed consolidation of The Peoples National Bank of Tarentum, Taren-
tum, Pennsylvania, and First National Bank of Westmoreland, Greensburg, 
Pennsylvania. 
The conclusion read as follows: 
There is virtually no existing competition between The 
Peoples National Bank of Tarentum and First National Bank 
of Westmoreland, Greensburg. 
However, since under Pennsyl-
vania law both banks could establish de novo branches in the 
area served by the other some potential for competition 
between them exists. 
The effect of the proposed consolida-
tion on competition would be slightly adverse. 
A draft report to the Comptroller of the Currency on the competi-
tive factors involved in the proposed merger of Saucon Valley Trust Company, 

945 
3/24/70 
- 3 -
Hellertown, Pennsylvania, into The First National Bank of Allentown, 
Allentown, Pennsylvania, concluded that the overall effect of the pro-
posal on comptetition would be adverse. 
Governor Mitchell questioned the justification for the adverse 
classification; data he had had compiled for 100 standard metropolitan 
statistical areas showed that the concentration ratio in the Allentown-
Bethlehem area was not high gauged by the other SMSA's. 
Chairman Burns 
also expressed a preference for classifying the competitive effect as 
no more than slightly adverse; he cited reference in the documentation 
to the intensity of competition in the market and to the number of bank-
ing alternatives that would remain in the area. The other Board members 
agreed with the reasoning given in the file in support of an adverse 
citation. 
Accordingly, the proposed report, in which the conclusion read as 
follows, was approved for transmittal to the Comptroller, Chairman Burns 
and Governor Mitchell dissenting: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of Saucon Valley 
Trust Company, Hellertown, into The First National Bank of 
Allentown would eliminate some competition now existing 
between the banks and would increase the concentration of 
banking resources in the largest bank in the relevant market 
area. Overall, the effect of the proposal on competition 
would be adverse. 
Exchange Bancorporation. 
After review of documentation that had 
been distributed, the Board approved unanimously an application by Ex-
change Bancorporation, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of 

U{.t 
t 
3/24/70 
- 4 -
Bank of Central Florida, Haines City, Florida. 
The Board also authorized 
issuance of an order and statement reflecting approval of the application, 
drafts of which.had been submitted. 
However, it was agreed that issuance 
of the documents would be withheld pending consideration of another appli-
cation by Exchange Bancorporation, expected to be on the agenda for the 
meeting on March 26, so that both decisions could be announced simulta-
neously. 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
After review of documentation that 
had been distributed, the Board unanimously approved an application by 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of 
Citizens Bank of Gainesville, Gainesville, Florida. 
It was understood 
that an order and statement reflecting this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation D. In a memorandum dated March 17, 
1970, the Legal Division presented a question raised by Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., San Francisco, California, whether its trust department might estab-
lish a non-interest-bearing savings account in the bank's commercial 
department, from which there would be transferred each day to the trust 
department's checking account (also in the commercial department) an 
amount sufficient to cover checks issued that day by the trust department. 
The purpose of the procedure would be to enable the bank to maintain the 
relatively low reserves required against time deposits rather than the 
higher reserves applicable to demand deposits. 
For reasons set forth in 

945 
3/24/70 
- 5 -
the memorandum, the Division recommended that the Board amend Regula-
tion D, Reserves of Member Banks, to preclude the practice. 
The proposed amendment would also have the effect of modifying 
a 1959 interpretation that permitted trust departments to have non-
interest-bearing time deposits, with a 30-day maturity. 
The modifica-
tion would preclude a trust department from drawing checks against an 
overdraft line of credit, with a transfer every 30 days from the trust 
department's time deposit to cover the outstanding overdraft in its 
checking account. 
The discussion of the matter ranged over a number of questions 
relative to the responsibilities and practices of trust departments, 
insofar as they appeared to have a bearing on the problem under consid-
eration. 
One point raised was that the practice against which the 
proposed amendment was directed might contain a "conflict of interest" 
factor, if the maintenance by a trust department of a time or savings 
account in the commercial department of the same bank would inure to the 
benefit of the bank itself as opposed to trust beneficiaries. 
The discus-
sion also brought out that a number of banks might be engaged in the 
practice concerning which question had been raised; in 1968 a Regional 
Counsel for the Comptroller of the Currency had issued an opinion sanc-
tioning the practice that may have been relied upon to some extent. 
In addition, a point of view was expressed by Governor Maisel 
that it was undesirable to publish amendments to a regulation such as 

S 4 9 
3/24/70 
- 6 -
D too frequently. 
Reference was made in this connection to certain 
matters presently under consideration that could result in further 
amendments to Regulation D in the relatively near future. 
In view of the considerations mentioned during the discussion, 
and in order to put affected banks on notice, the Legal Division then 
suggested that the proposed amendment to Regulation D be published for 
comment rather than adopted at this time. There was general agreement 
with this suggestion, and it was noted that the attention of Wells Fargo 
Bank should be drawn to the publication of the proposal. 
Pub 1 ication of the proposed amendment for comment was then 
approved unanimously. 
A copy of the pertinent notice sent to the Federal 
Register is attached as Item No. 1, and a copy of the letter sent to Wells 
Fargo Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
Officer salary. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland approving the payment of salary to 
G. Dale Weight as Assistant Vice President at the Pittsburgh Branch at 
the rate fixed by the Bank's Board of Directors. A copy of the letter 
is attached as Item No. 3. 
Postal strike. Mr. Farrell reviewed the status of the current 
strike by postal workers and its cumulative effect upon Federal Reserve 
check and currency operations, particularly in the New York area. 
In 
general, the situation appeared to be returning to normal. 

S49 
3/24/70 
- 7 -
All members of the staff then withdrew except Messrs. Holland 
and Kenyon. 
Housing legislation. 
Chairman Burns discussed with the Board 
steps being taken in light of the fact that the Senate Banking and 
Currency Committee had reported out certain housing legislation that 
included provisions, sponsored by Senator Proxmire, under which the 
Federal Reserve would be required to make funds available to the Federal 
Home Loan Banks up to a maximum of $3 billion annually on a cumulative 
basis through the discounting of certificates at a rate no higher than 
6 per cent. He indicated that among other things there was under consid-
eration a letter that would be addressed by the President to Chairman 
Sparkman of the Senate Banking and Currency Committee, a draft of which 
he read to the Board members. 
(Note: A copy of the letter sent by the 
President on March 25 has been placed in the Board's files.) 
There was general agreement that the legislative provisions in 
question should be resisted vigorously, and it was understood that if 
Board members had further thoughts on ways of dealing with the problem 
they would make them known to Chairman Burns. 
Proxmire letter. Chairman Burns then referred to a letter he 
had sent to Senator Proxmire on March 17 in response to the Senator's 
letter of February 26 requesting specification of a series of possible 
alternative paths that monetary policy and fiscal developments might 
follow in 1970. 
(Note: Copies of the correspondence have been placed 

945 
3/24/70 
- 8 -
in the Board's files.) The Chairman noted that his reply to Senator 
Proxmire reflected the fact that in earlier Board discussions there had 
been little sent.iment in favor of furnishing Federal Reserve economic 
projections to the Congress. 
He also said that it had seemed desirable 
to dispatch the reply so that it would reach Senator Proxmire before he 
(Chairman Burns) appeared before the Senate Banking and Currency Committee 
on March 18. He regretted that in the circumstances the reply had not 
been discussed with the Board in draft prior to its transmittal, and also 
that subsequently there had been an inadvertent delay in the distribution 
of copies of the correspondence to the Board members. 
The other members of the Board indicated that they regarded the 
contents of the reply as appropriate. 
Delegation of authority. 
It was agreed that the staff should 
prepare for the Board's consideration a delegation of authority to the 
Board's Committee on Organization, Compensation, and Building Plans to 
approve salaries of Reserve Bank officers below the level of Senior 
Vice President. 
It was understood that for the present the authority 
would not extend to general structual adjustments. 
Reference was made, in this connection, to a memorandum from the 
Board's Committee dated March 17, 1970, on Reserve Bank salary policy in 
1970. 
It was understood that consideration of that memorandum would be 
deferred for a week or so, within which time additional information might 

S49 
3/24/70 
- 9 -
become available to indicate whether the recommendations contained 
therein would be consistent with overall Federal Government policy. 
Board minutes. Mr. Holland noted that the Board's minutes were 
currently being written in a briefer form which attempted to emphasize 
the issues involved in matters coming before the Board and the principal 
considerations leading to eventual decisions. 
It had now been suggested 
that it would be useful for reference purposes if the minutes could be 
somewhat more specific in identifying positions taken by members of the 
Board. 
Governors Roberts on and Brimmer expressed the view that where 
there were differences of opinion it would be helpful to show in the 
minutes, parenthetically or otherwise, how particular members stood on 
the issues, and the latter added that he would also like to see identi-
fication of members who had originated propositions or suggestions. 
Chairman Burns said that he saw no difficulty in accommodating 
these views, although he felt that the minutes coverage was generally 
adequate and that a return to lengthy, detailed minutes should be avoided, 
especially in view of the delay involved in the preparation of such minutes. 
There appeared to be no disagreement with these comments. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

Item No. 
3/24/70 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Transfers from Time Deposits To Cover Checks 
The Board of Governors is considering changing the present 
definition of "time deposits" in this part (Regulation D) to exclude 
from the scope of that term any funds which are regularly utilized 
by the depositary bank itself, pursuant to an express or implied 
agreement with the depositor, to cover checks drawn on the bank by 
the depositor. 
Deposits so utilized would be "demand deposits" for 
purposes of the reserve requirements imposed by this part. 
The proposal being considered is to amend § 204.1(b) to 
read as follows: 
(b) Time deposits.--The term "time deposits" 
means "time certificates of deposit", "time deposits, 
open account" and "savings deposits", as defined below, 
but shall not include any deposit representing furtd3 
which are regularly utilized, by action of the depositary 
bank itself pursuant to an express or implied agreement 
with the depositor, to cover checks drawn on the bank 
by the depositor.** 
**For example, funds deposited by the trust department 
of a bank in its own commercial department are not 
"time deposits" if regularly utilized to cover checks 
drawn by the trust department. 
/ 
Recent evidence indicates that some member banks have 
accepted in their commercial departments non-intere3t-bearing 
Qavings accounts from their own trust departments. 
Each day 

- 2 -
a transfer is made to the trust department's checking account to cover 
checks drawn that day by the trust department. The obvious purpose 
of this procedure is to avoid the higher demand deposit reserve require 
ments with respect to funds which in practical effect are subject to 
check. The intent of the amendment is to prevent the use of a savings 
or any other time deposit in tandem with a checking account, pursuant 
to an express or implied agreement, so as to vitiate the effect of the 
demand deposit reserve requirements in this part. 
To aid in the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
interested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views, or 
arguments. Any such material should be submitted in writing to the 
Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
Washington, D, C. 20551, to be received not later than April 27, 1970. 
Under the Board's rules regarding availability of information (12 CFR 
Part 261), such materials will be made available for inspection and 
i 
copying upon request unless the person submitting the material asks 
that it be considered confidential. 
i 
By order of the Board of Governors, March 24, 1970. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
/ 
(SEAL) 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
o r r r r 
Item No. 2 
3/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 25, 1970 
Wells Fargo Bank, N. A., 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California. 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
The Comptroller of the Currency recently referred to the 
Board an inquiry by your attorneys relating to the establishment 
by your trust department of a non-interest-bearing savings deposit 
in your Bank's commercial department, from which daily transfers 
would be made to cover checks drawn by the trust department. 
Enclosed is a notice of proposed rule making which, if 
adopted, would preclude an arrangement of the type described. A 
copy of this letter and its enclosure is being forwarded to the 
Comptroller of the Currency. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Enclosure 

'?«AL 
RF.S^-
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
J) 56 
Item No. 3 
3/24/70 
A D D R E S S 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 24, 1970 
CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. W. Braddock Hickman, President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 
44101 
Dear Mr. Hickman: 
The Board of Governors approves the payment of 
salary to Mr. G. Dale Weight as an Assistant Vice President 
at the Pittsburgh Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland at the rate of $18,000 per annum for the period 
May 1 through December 31, 1970. This is the rate fixed 
by your Board of Directors as reported in your letter of 
March 12, 1970. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
