MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 29, 1968 

1 5 6 5 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, April 29, 1968. 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and Direc-
tor, Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Ass istant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance \j 
Mr. Bernard and Miss McWhirter of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Economic review. 
An economic review of the kind customarily 
given in advance of meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee was 
presented. 
The reports were based to some extent on materials prepared 
for tomorrow's meeting of the Committee, and copies of the relevant 
documents have been placed in the files of the Committee. 
At the conclusion of the economic review and discussion based 
thereon, all members of the research divisions except Mr. Shull of the 
Division of Research and Statistics and Mr. Reynolds of the Division of 
V 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 5 6 6 
4/29/68 
-2-
International Finance withdrew. Messrs. Broida and Bernard and 
Miss McWhirter also withdrew and the following entered: 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Doyle, Noble, and Porter, and Mrs. Heller of the 
Legal Division 
Mr. Grimwood of the Division of International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow and Lyon of the Division of Examina-
tions 
Nassau branch. Unanimous approval was given to a letter to 
Pittsburgh National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, approving its 
application to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Investment in French corporation. Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, had applied for permis 
sion for its wholly-owned subsidiary, New World Development Corporation 
Limited, Nassau, Bahamas, to acquire shares of Banque Worms & Cie., S.A., 
Paris, France. The funds for the investment were to be raised in the 
London money market, but the borrowings were to carry the guarantee of 
the parent Philadelphia National Bank. In view of this, and since the 
investment was to be made in continental Western Europe, a paragraph had 
been included in the proposed letter of approval to the effect that any 
flow of funds from the parent bank through the Bahamian subsidiary for 
the purpose of making loans or investments in continental Western Europe 

I
f- „ >~y 
r 
4/29/68 
-3-
would not be consistent with the foreign credit restraint program. 
In discussion it was suggested that the letter also contain 
a stipulation that any foreign borrowing undertaken by the Bahamian 
subsidiary with the guarantee of the parent bank must have a minimum 
maturity of three years. 
There being agreement with that suggestion, unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Philadelphia International Investment Corpora-
tion in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Maintenance of proportionate ownership interests. 
On April 15, 
1968, the Board considered an application by The First National Bank 
of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, for permission to make an additional 
investment in N.V. Slavenburg's Bank, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, in 
order to maintain its existing equity interest in that bank. 
The staff 
had recommended denial on the grounds that the additional investment 
would be inconsistent with the Board's current policy with respect to 
equity investments in devel oped countries of continental Western Europe. 
The Board requested the staff to consider the problem further, and a 
memorandum dated April 22 had now been submitted by the Division of 
Examinations. 
The memorandum outlined several possible alternatives 
and the arguments that might be made in support of them. 
After discussion of the problem it was suggested that the Board 
follow a practice of approving proposed additional investments to maintain 
proportionate ownership interests where there was a satisfactory showing 

1 5 6 8 
4/29/68 
-4-
by the applicant that failure to make the proposed investment would 
have definite deleterious effects such as loss of a directorship, loss 
of representation on the board of directors, or an actual financial 
loss. 
It was the consensus that such a policy would represent the 
best of the available alternatives. 
Governor Brimmer dissented, since 
in his view this would further erode the effectiveness of the foreign 
credit restraint program, particularly that part of the program directed 
at discouraging equity investments in the developed countries of conti-
nental Western Europe. 
While the amounts of funds involved might be 
relatively small, he felt that a principle was involved that should 
not be ignored. 
Accordingly, the policy outlined above was adopted. Governor 
Brimmer dissenting, and with respect to the pending application it was 
understood that First National Bank of Chicago would be asked to submit 
information showing why inability to make the proposed further invest-
ment in the Netherlands bank would have deleterious effects of such 
nature as to justify approval of the investment. 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
After reviewing available back-
ground material, the Board approved unanimously the application of First 
at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of The First 
National Bank at Leesburg, Leesburg, Florida, with the understanding 

J 5 « 9 
4/29/68 
-5-
that an order and statement reflecting the action would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration. 
Small Business Investment Act Amendments. 
The Small Business 
Investment Act Amendments of 1967 in part amended, effective January 9, 
1968, the limitations applicable to the acquisition by banks of shares 
in small business investment companies. 
The Conference Report on the 
legislation expressed an expectation that the Federal Reserve would 
issue regulations requiring bank holding companies to conform to the 
restrictions imposed by the amendments and insuring that such companies, 
their subsidiaries, and their affiliates would not gain benefits under 
the legislation not accruing to non-holding company banks. 
In a memorandum dated April 24, 1968, the Legal Division 
proposed the issuance of an interpretation, explaining that such a proce-
dure would carry out the intent of the Congressional request and would 
follow a pattern set by the Board in 1963. 
After discussion the Board approved the issuance of the inter-
pretation. 
A copy, in the form published in the Federal Register, is 
attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: 
Governor Robertson today 
approved on behalf of the Board the following 
items: 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

1570 
4/29/68 
-6-
Appointments 
Rosa J. Rowles as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Jane E. Savage as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,108, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Dianna Ruth T. Wallace as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel 
Administration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,108, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Transfer 
Irma B. Gavin, from the position of Senior Graphic Illustrator 
to the position of Graphic Illustration Supervisor, Division of Data 
Processing, with an increase in basic annual salary from $8,860 to 
$9,399, effective May 5, 1968. 
Maternity leave 
Grace Anne Burnes, Secretary, Division of Examinations, beginning 
May 3, 1968. 
Military leave 
John I. Barber, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
beginning May 1, 1968. 
On April 29, 1968, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 
By the Director of the Division of 
Bank Operations 
Item No. 
Letter to The Broadway National Bank, 
4 
San Antonio, Texas, granting its request 
for permission to maintain reduced reserves. 

1571 
4/29/68 
-7-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Item No. 
Letter to Mercantile National Bank at Dallas, 
5 
Dallas, Texas, granting an extension of time 
within which to file its annual report as a 
bank holding company. 
Secretary 

?*AL 
RE^*' 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
A/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 29, 1968. 
The Pittsburgh National Bank, 
Fifth Avenue and Wood Street, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. 
15230 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to Pittsburgh National Bank, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
to establish a branch in Nassau, Bahamas, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before May 1, 1969, all right granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please inform the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in location 
of tfce branch in Nassau. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
Accordingly, it is 
understood that the investment now being approved will be made within 
the guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your bank, and that due consideration is being given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

^ L R E ^ V 
JL,} ^ O 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
4/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 29, 1968. 
Philadelphia International Investment Corporation, 
P. 0. Box 7618, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your request received under cover of a 
letter dated December 29, 1967, to Vice President Campbell, Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia, the Board of Governors grants consent 
for your wholly-owned subsidiary, New World Development Corporation 
("NWDC"), to purchase and hold up to approximately 7 per cent of the 
outstanding shares of Banque Worms & Cie., S.A., Paris, France, at 
a cost of approximately $3,047,000. 
In this connection, the Board 
also approves the purchase and holding of such shares by NWDC in 
excess of the limitations set forth in the provision of paragraph 5(c) 
of section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act and in section 211.9(b) 
of Regulation K. 
The Board is concerned about the possibility that foreign 
borrowing by banks or their affiliates may become a substitute for 
short-term foreign deposits or investments in the United States. 
Therefore, the foregoing consent is given on the specific understanding 
that for the purpose of financing the aforementioned investment 
including the interim deposit, any foreign borrowing undertaken by 
NWDC shall have a minimum maturity of three years. 
It is further 
understood that the funds utilized in making that investment will 
not include any of the present capital of NWDC nor cause any change 
in the position of your Corporation, of Philadelphia International 
Bank, or of The Philadelphia National Bank under the foreign credit 
restraint effort as long as it remains in effect, except for any 
actions which prove absolutely necessary under any guarantee extended 
by The Philadelphia National Bank. 
Your attention is specifically directed to that provision 
°f the guidelines for banks under the foreign credit restraint program 
which requests that no new nonexport credits be made to developed 

1574 
Philadelphia International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
countries of continental Western Europe. 
In accordance with this 
provision, the Board would regard any increase in your investment 
in NWDC that served to finance an increase in NWDC's loans and 
investments in continental Western Europe as not being consistent 
with the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

Item No. 
{ 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
4/29/68 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Y] 
PART 222 - BANK HOLDING COMPANIES 
Small Business Investment Companies 
Section 222.111 is revised to read as follows: 
§ 222.111 
Limit on investment by bank holding company system in stock of 
small business investment companies. 
(a) 
Under the provisions of section 4(c)(5) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1843), a bank holding company may acquire 
shares of nonbank companies "which are of the kinds and amounts eligible 
for investment" by national banks. 
Pursuant to section 302(b) of the Small 
Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 682(b)), as amended by Title II 
o f the Small Business Acc Amendments of 1967 (Pub. Law 90-104, 81 Stat. 268, 
270), a national bank may invest in stock of small business investment 
companies (SBICs) subject to certain restrictions. 
(b) On the basis of the foregoing statutory provisions, it is the 
Position of the Board that a bank holding company may acquire direct or 
indirect ownership or control of stock of an SBIC subject to the following 
limits: 
(1) The total direct and indirect investments of a bank 
folding company in stock of SBICs may not exceed: 

-2-
(i) with respect to all stock of SBICs owned or con-
trolled directly or indirectly by a subsidiary bank, 5 per cent of that 
bank's capital and surplus; 
(ii) with respect to all stock of SBICs owned directly 
by a bank holding company that is a bank, 5 per cent of that bank's capital 
and surplus; and 
(iii) with respect to all stock of SBICs otherwise owned 
or controlled directly or indirectly by a bank holding company, 5 per cent 
°f its proportionate interest in the capital and surplus of each subsidiary 
bank (that is, the holding company's percentage of that bank's stock times 
that bank's capital and surplus) less that bank's investment in stock of 
SBICs; and 
(2) A bank holding company may not acquire direct or 
indirect ownership or control of 50 per cent or more of the shares of any 
class of equity securities of an SBIC that have actual or potential voting 
rights. 
(c) A bank holding company or a bank subsidiary that acquired 
direct or indirect ownership or control of 50 per cent or more of any such 
class of equity securities prior to January 9, 1968, is not required to di-
V e s t to a level below 50 per cent. 
A bank that acquired 50 per cent or more 
P rior to January 9, 1968 may become a subsidiary in a holding company system 
W lthout any necessity for divesting to a level below 50 per cent, provided 

that such action does not result in the bank holding company acquiring 
control of a percentage greater than that controlled by such bank. 
(12 U.S.C. 248(i). 
Interprets 12 U.S.C. 1843 and 15 U.S.C. 
682(b).) 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 29th day of April 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(SEAL) 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

VVQ» 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N D R 5 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
A/29/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 29, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
The Broadway National Bank, 
San Antonio, Texas. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, the Director of the Division of 
Bank Operations of the Board of Governors, acting under delegated 
authority, grants permission pursuant to provisions of Section 19 
of the Federal Reserve Act to the Broadway National Bank to 
maintain the same reserves against deposits as are required to be 
maintained by banks not in reserve cities, effective as of 
April 29, 1968, the date it opened for business within the city 
of San Antonio. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

I 
Item No. 5 
4/29/68 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF DALLAS j r-79 
D A L L A S , T E X A S 
7 5 2 2 2 
THOMAS R. SULLIVAN 
V I C E 
P R E S I D E N T 
April 29, 1968 
Mr. M. E. Peeples 
Assistant Vice President 
Mercantile National Bank at Dallas 
P. 0. Box 5^15 
Dallas, Texas 75222 
Dear Mr. Peeples: 
This refers to the request in your letter of April 26, 
1968, for an extension of thirty days for filing the Annual 
Report of the Mercantile National Bank at Dallas, Dallas, Texas, 
as a bank holding company. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved your request for an 
extension of time for filing the report. The Mercantile National 
Bank at Dallas, Dallas, Texas, will be allowed until May 30, 
1968, within which to file its Annual Report as a bank holding 
company (Form F.R. Y-6) with the Board of Governors of the Fed-
eral Reserve System pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956, as amended, and Regulation Y. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
"bcc: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 
