MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
December 14, 1967 

I 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, December 14, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
„ 'Xt4.dC 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. O'Connell, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division 
of Examinations 
Mr. Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Mr. Morgan of the Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Shuter of the Legal Division 
Mr. Ring of the Division of Bank Operations 
Miss McShane of the Division of Examinations 
Membership application. After a discussion of the application 
. 
- 
• 
< 
! ' 
' 
' 
* 
' 
- 
' 
• 
• 
-
°f The Union Savings Bank & Trust Company, Steubenville, Ohio, for 
• 
. . . . 
admission to membership in the Federal Reserve System, from which it 
appeared that the bank was in reasonably satisfactory condition and 
cnat its problems were of manageable 
proportions, the application 
W a s approved unanimously. It was decided that the letter to the 

' 4818 
12/14/67 
-2-
bank should not contain a sentence, suggested by the staff, citing 
its capital position as somewhat less than satisfactory, but that 
the letter should include a sentence urging that plans for 
strengthening the bank's capital structure be formulated in the 
near future. A copy of the letter, as sent, is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
Minneapolis building program. After a discussion of 
several questions involved in the head office building program 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, as presented in a 
memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated December 12, 
1967, unanimous approval was given to a letter to the Bank reflect-
ing the Division's recommendations. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Employee responsibilities and conduct. The Civil Service 
Commission had amended its regulation on employee responsibilities 
and conduct and had requested other agencies of the Government, 
including the Board, to amend their corresponding regulations in 
similar fashion. The general purpose of the Commission's amendments 
was to be responsive to objections that had been raised by employees 
and employee groups. The Commission had requested that amendments 
Proposed by the Board in its own regulation be submitted to the 
Commission prior to publication of the amended Board regulation. 
The Board had received no objections from employees to the 
Provisions being amended by the Civil Service Commission, and in 

* 181 
12/14/67 
-3-
several respects the Board's present regulation anticipated the 
new standards set by the Commission's amendments. 
However, as indicated in a staff memorandum of December 8, 
1967, several Board employees who had small holdings of bank stock 
and for various reasons did not want to sell the stock had objected 
to the requirement in the present Board regulation that an employee 
holding or acquiring equity securities of a bank, an affiliate 
thereof, or a Government securities dealer must dispose of them as 
promptly as practicable without causing undue hardship. The staff 
memorandum recommended a modification to the effect that the fore-
going requirement would prevail "unless, after full disclosure in 
writing, the Board approves continued holding of such securities." 
Substantive discussion of the proposed amended Board 
regulation was limited to the recommended modification of the 
requirement with respect to disposal of any holdings of bank stock. 
While the majority of the members present were disposed to agree with 
the modification, one member (Governor Brimmer) felt quite strongly 
that it would be preferable to continue the requirement unchanged, 
and in the circumstances it was decided that the question would be 
held over for further consideration when additional members of the 
Board were present. 
Since the Civil Service Commission was understood to be 
Pressing for submission of proposed amended regulations by the 

4820 
12/14/67 
-4-
respective agencies, it was agreed that the proposed Board regulation 
would be transmitted to the Commission by the staff in a form in 
which the provision with regard to bank stock holdings would be the 
same as in the present regulation, but with advice to the Commission 
that the Board was still considering that provision and might submit 
a proposed amendment later. 
H.R. 10595. A letter to the Bureau of the Budget expressing 
no objection to approval of enrolled bill H.R. 10595, "To prohibit 
certain banks and savings and loan associations from fostering or 
participating in gambling activities," was approved unanimously. 
A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
memoranda recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointment 
Frederick Massey as Messenger, Division of Administrative 
Services, with basic annual salary at the rate of $3,609, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Permis sion to engage in outside activity 
Preston McNeary, Laborer, Division of Administrative Services, 
to engage in housework on a part-time basis. 
On December 14, 1967, actions were taken 
on behalf of the Board under delegated 
authority as reflected in the following 
letters, copies of which are attached as 
indicated: 

4821 
12/14/67 
vfefc i 
-5-
By the Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to Nevada Bank of Commerce, Reno, Nevada, 
approving the establishment of a branch in Indian 
Springs. 
Letter to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
regarding the application of Traders State Bank of 
Poplar, Poplar, Montana, for continuation of deposit 
insurance after withdrawal from membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. 
Item No. 
; 
I; ' 
.. 
'I 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
12/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 14, 1967 
Board of Directors, 
The Union Savings Bank 
& Trust Company, 
Steubenville, Ohio. 
43952 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of The Union Savings Bank & Trust Company, Steubenville, 
Ohio, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regu-
lation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof. 
A. copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
The Board of Governors also approves the retention and operation 
°f the present in-town branch and the Toronto Branch of The Union Savings 
Bank & Trust Company, Steubenville, Ohio. 
It is the Board's understanding that consideration is being 
given to means of strengthening your bank's capital structure, and the 
Board urges that plans in this respect be formulated in the near future. 

The Union Savings Bank & Trust Company 
-2-
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member of 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board of 
^rectors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of such 
resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. Arrangements 
will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve 
balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock 
t o the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 30 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in the 
federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find member-
8hip i n the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve Bank 
Pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad to assist 
^ u i n establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve System and 
a t any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means for making 
the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
^closure. 

' 4824 
i 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20*51 
Item No. 2 
12/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
December 14, 1967. 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
This refers to your letter of November 27, 1967, 
requesting authorization to negotiate with the Knutson 
Companies for a site and a new bank building to be located 
within the Gateway Center in downtown Minneapolis. 
The Board will interpose no objection to your 
proceeding with the negotiations as outlined in your letter, 
with the understanding that: 
(a) The proposed contract between Knutson and 
the Reserve Bank will clearly show that the 
total price paid for the site is the actual 
land cost, rather than the amount to be paid 
when title is transferred. 
(b) The contract between Knutson and the Reserve 
Bank will be subject to approval by the 
Redevelopment Authority, including the pay-
ment provisions. 
(c) The Bank will receive written assurance that 
any building restrictions that might hinder 
expansion of the building will be removed 
before entering into any binding contract in 
connection with a site in the Gateway Center. 
• 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

4825 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 3 
12/14/67 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 2 0 5 5 1 
M RE$*\ 
OFFICE OF THE 
CHAIRMAN 
December 14, 1967 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of December 13, 1967, 
for the views of the Board of Governors with respect to enrolled 
bill H.R. 10595, "To prohibit certain banks and savings and loan^ 
associations from fostering or participating in gambling activities." 
The Board understands that one of the principal purposes of this bill 
is to prohibit federally-insured deposit-type financial institutions 
from selling participations (tickets) in lotteries conducted by the 
State of New York. 
The Board has no objection to Presidential approval of 
this bill 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Wm. McC. Martin, Jr. 
Wm. McC. Martin, Jr 

' 182H 
b o a r d 
d f 
g d v e r n d r s 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
12/14/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
DEC 2 2 1967 
Board of Directors, 
Nevada Bank of Commerce, 
Reno, Nevada. 
Gentlemen: 
The Director of the Division of Examinations, on behalf 
°t the Board of Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
establishment of a branch by Nevada Bank of Commerce, Reno, Nevada 
Indian Springs, Clark County, Nevada, provided the branch is 
established within six months from the date of this letter. 
I n considering this application, it has been determined 
nat the proposed branch will serve the convenience and needs of 
community and that establishment of the branch will not tend to 
create an undesirable competitive situation. It is understood 
consideration is being given to means to improve your bank's 
CaPital position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signal purity L 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

48327 
BDARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 5 
12/14/67 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
December 15, 1967 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 
20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of December 13, 1967, 
concerning the application of Traders State Bank of Poplar, 
Montana, Poplar, Montana, for continuance of deposit insurance 
after withdrawal from membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Director of the Division 
of Examinations states, on behalf of the Board of Governors, that 
there have been no corrective programs urged upon the bank, or 
agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, and there 
are no programs that the Director would advise be incorporated as 
conditions of admitting the bank to membership in the Corporation 
as a norimember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 
