MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
February 29, 1972 
iW 

558 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
on Tuesday, February 29, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:30 a.m. , 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Sanders, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hersey, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 

559 
2/29/72 
-10-
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Kiley, Associate Director, Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott and Miss Key, Technical 
Assistants, Office of the Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members 
Mr. Treadway presented a brief review of recent stock market 
and margin credit developments as summarized in a memorandum from the 
Capital Markets Section dated February 25, 1972. A copy of the memorandum 
has been placed in the Board's files. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to 
continue to hold stock of Banco Lar Brasileiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, 
after the latter acquires the stock of Lar Brasileiro - Administracao e 
Servicos S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. A copy of the letter sent to the 
applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Girard Interna-
tional Bank, New York, New York, (1) to acquire the stock of Girard 
International Investment Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; (2) 
to liquidate Girard International Investment Corporation and to acquire 
the stock now held by that corporation; and (3) to amend its articles 
of association to decrease its authorized capital. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 

560 
2/29/72 
-10-
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
on February 14, 1972, of the application of State National Bancshares, 
Inc., El Paso, Texas, to become a bank holding company through the 
acquisition of (1) shares of the successor by merger to The State 
National Bank of El Paso, and (2) indirect control of shares of Bassett 
National Bank, El Paso, Citizens State Bank of Ysleta, and First National 
Bank of Fabens, all in Texas. A copy of the order is attached under 
Item No. 3, along with the dissenting statement of Governor Robertson. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval 
(Governor Robertson dissenting) on February 14, 1972, of the application 
of Trans Texas Bancorporation, Inc., El Paso, Texas, to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition of shares of the following 
El Paso banks: El Paso National Bank, First State Bank, Northgate 
National Bank of El Paso, and Border City Bank. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 4. (The reasons for Governor Robertson's dissent 
are set forth in his dissenting statement on the State National Bancshares 
application referred to in the preceding entry.) 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, to acquire shares of Franklin 
County Bank and Trust Company, Washington, Missouri, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

561 
2/29/72 
-10-
The Board unanimously approved letters to the Securities and 
Exchange Commission and to the Office of Management and Budget regarding 
the proposed Securities Transaction Processing Act of 1972. Copies of 
the letters are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Philadelphia regarding the salaries of the President and First 
Vice President of the Bank. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of 
testimony to be given by Chairman Burns before the House Committee on 
Banking and Currency on March 2, 1972. The testimony was similar to 
that given by the Chairman before the Senate Committee on Banking, 
Housing, and Urban Affairs on February 24, 1972. During the discussion 
several suggestions were made for minor changes. 
It was understood that the statement would be reviewed in light 
°f comments at today's meeting and that it would be presented in a final 
form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. (Note: A copy of the statement, 
as presented, has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Regulation T. At the meeting on February 17, 1972, the staff 
Was directed to prepare action documents that would implement the various 
alternatives before the Board with respect to the applicability of Regu-
lation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, to tax-shelter programs. These 

SG2 
2/29/72 
-5-
documents had now been submitted with a memorandum dated February 24, 
1972, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Legal 
Division, in which the staff summarized the alternative courses and 
made recommendations with respect thereto. The Division of Supervision 
and Regulation and the Capital Markets Section favored issuance of an 
interpretation that would state the conclusion that the present provi-
sions of Regulation T forbid broker/dealers to sell tax-shelter programs 
with built-in instalment features. On the other hand, the Legal Division 
proposed that an interpretation be published to the effect that the 
Board does not consider Regulation T applicable to broker/dealer sales 
of tax-shelter programs with built-in instalment features. If the Board 
favored granting such an exemption, the Division of Supervision and 
Regulation preferred publication of a proposed amendment for comment 
rather than issuance of an interpretation. 
Discussion failed to develop a consensus in favor of any of 
the alternatives presented. Questions were raised relating to the 
Board's statutory authority and Congressional intent in the legislative 
area. Additional comments underscored the need for more thorough expo-
sition of the issues involved. Accordingly, action was deferred with 
the understanding that additional documentation would be prepared. 
Small Business Technology Investment Act. On February 25, 1972, 
the Board gave preliminary consideration to the Small Business Adminis-
tration's draft "Small Business Technology Investment Act of 1972." On 

563 
2/29/72 
-10-
the basis of that discussion the Legal Division explored with repre-
sentatives of the other Federal bank supervisory agencies and the Small 
Business Administration a proposal for lodging in the Board and/or 
other Federal bank supervisory agencies regulatory authority to compel 
divestiture by bank-controlled small business investment companies of 
controlling interest in small business concerns that became dominant 
competitors in their industries. The reactions of the other agencies, 
summarized in a memorandum dated February 28, 1972, led the Legal 
Division to recommend that the Board's support for the bill not be so 
qualified. Attached to the memorandum was a draft letter to the Office 
* i ; i ' I ' 
! 
I 
of Management and Budget that would indicate Board support for the 
bill, but also recommend that section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act 
be amended in conjunction therewith to eliminate collateral requirements 
with respect to loans by insured banks to their subsidiary small business 
investment companies. 
Following discussion during which it was agreed that the Board's 
support should be offered without reservation, unanimous approval was 
given to a letter to the Office of Management and Budget in the form 
attached as Item No. 9. 
Mr. Garvy, Economic Adviser, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
and Mr. Forrestal, Vice President and General Counsel, Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, entered the meeting at this point. 

564 
2/29/72 
-10-
Reserve requirements. On October 12, 1971, the Board considered 
a recommendation by the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations to 
revise the structure of member bank reserve requirements. Action was 
deferred pending further staff analysis and exploration with Congres-
sional leaders of the possibility of developing support for legislative 
action in this area. Additional documentation had now been prepared 
and included the following: 
Memorandum dated January 28, 1972, from the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations proposing modifications of 
its previous recommendations for a system of uniform gradu-
ated reserve requirements; 
Memorandum dated February 4, 1972, from the Office of 
Executive Director presenting the proposal of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York for restructuring of the reserve 
requirement system; 
Memorandum dated February 11, 1972, from the Division of 
Research and Statistics analyzing the New York Reserve Bank 
proposal; and 
Memorandum dated February 28, 1972, from the Special Reserve 
Bank Task Force on Reserve Requirements endorsing the January 28 
staff proposals as a measure that would significantly reduce 
inequities in current reserve requirement arrangements but 
urging further efforts to place commercial bank reserve 
requirements on a more rational basis. 
The Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations, in its 
memorandum dated September 13, 1971, had proposed that uniform graduated 
reserve requirements be assigned to all member banks with net demand 
deposits of under $200 million regardless of where the banks were located, 
ar*d that all member banks with net demand deposits of over $200 million 

9 
2/29/72 
-10-
be given uniform graduated reserve requirements by redefining reserve 
cities to be all those cities or localities that contain a bank with 
net demand deposits of over $200 million. Under the proposal all banks 
in reserve cities with net demand deposits of less than $200 million 
would be granted reduced reserves as a blanket measure, and their 
reduced reserves privilege would be automatically revoked for such 
banks when their net demand deposits exceeded $200 million. It would 
then be possible to set uniform graduated reserve requirements for all 
member banks, provided that the requirement of each bank fell within 
the statutory limits. Such a proposal could be accomplished without 
additional legislation. 
On the basis of additional staff analysis it was not contemplated 
that the period of time for transition to the new structure would be 
approximately one year, with the change to be effected in four specified 
stages. It was also recommended that the upper limit of the lowest 
class interval be increased to $10 million from the previously recom-
mended $5 million. The specific reserve requirements recommended, to 
apply to net demand deposits, would then be 10 per cent on deposits 
under $10 million, 13 per cent on deposits between $10 and $200 million, 
and 17-1/2 per cent on deposits over $200 million. 
At today's meeting members of the Board's staff summarized the 
Principal features of the proposal now before the Board and discussed 
the advantages and disadvantages of an additional recommendation that 

566 
2/29/72 
-9-
the upper class interval start at $500 million instead of $200 million. 
Messrs. Forrestal and Garvy reviewed the proposal as viewed by the 
Special Reserve Bank Task Force and commented on the areas in which 
continuing study and evaluation should be undertaken. 
During discussion there was general agreement that the proposal 
to restructure member bank reserve requirements would effectively remove 
obsolete geographic restraints, and there was support for the view that 
it would tend to lessen the rate of attrition as regards System member-
ship. Question was raised whether the proposed move would in fact 
represent an interim step looking toward uniform reserve requirements 
or whether it might pose an obstacle to the eventual achievement of 
that goal. Comments were directed to possible Congressional reaction, 
and reservations were expressed by some members of the Board over the 
desirability of amending Regulation D (Reserves of Member Banks) at 
this time if such a move would jeopardize the possibility of future 
favorable legislative action. As a means of diluting opposition to 
the proposal, persuasive arguments were advanced by other members of 
the Board in favor of making the move promptly in conjunction with 
adoption of an amendment to Regulation J (Collection of Checks and 
Other Items by Federal Reserve Banks) that would require payment of 
checks on day of presentment. The view was expressed that such a 
strategy would accomplish the dual purpose of reducing float while 
topping up excess reserves that would be released. It would also 

567 
2/29/72 
-10-
serve to offset the notion that action was taken as a means of easing 
monetary policy. 
Consideration was also given to the question whether it would 
be preferable to adopt the proposed amendments to Regulations D and J 
without prior notice to the public or to publish them in the Federal 
Register with a limited time for the receipt of comments before taking 
further action. The majority of the Board appeared to favor the latter 
course. In addition there was support for the suggestion that an 
intensive educational effort be made to acquaint the banking community 
with the purpose of the proposal through meetings with Reserve Bank 
representatives and other means. 
Other comments were directed to the proposed structure of 
reserve requirements, and an effort was made to define class intervals 
to which benefits were most likely to accrue. Development of an 
equitable structure that would hold criticism to a minimum was discussed, 
and among the suggestions made for modification of the present staff 
Proposal was that of Governor Robertson to the effect that the deposit 
structure should be widened to cover gross liabilities and that lower 
reserve requirements, with additional graduations, should be imposed 
for the lower class interval. Several members of the Board also spoke 
in favor of a higher cut-off than the $200 million proposed by the staff. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that analysis 
and evaluation of the several suggestions made would be helpful in 

568 
2/29/72 
-10-
continuing deliberations, and it was understood that the matter would 
be brought back for further consideration at an early date. 
Proposed amendments to margin regulations. In a memorandum 
dated February 25, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
summarized the reasons for its recommendation that the effective date 
of proposed amendments to margin regulations G, T, and U regarding 
credit for the purpose of providing capital to brokers and dealers be 
postponed for an additional six months. These proposals, if adopted 
by the Board, were to have become effective October 1, 1971, but the 
effective date had twice been postponed, most recently to March 1, 1972. 
Postponement of the effective date to September 1, 1972, was 
approved unanimously. A copy of the notice published in the Federal 
Register is attached as Item No. 10. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
i i 
Secretary 

- A t -
4-
a 
vV 
iffepf 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20531 
Item No. 1 
2/29/72 
AUDHEB!; arrictAL cotvwtGPONorwet 
T D 
T H E 
U O A R D 
February 29, 1972 
Chase "Manhattan Overseas Banking 
Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested iri your letters of December 6, 1971, and -
January 17, 1972, the Board of Governors grants consent for your. 
Corporation, ("CMOBC"), or The Chase Manhattan Bank, National 
Association, ("CMB"), to continue to hold the shares of Banco Lar 
Brasileiro ("Banco Lar") after Banco Lar acquires up to 100 per cent 
of the shares, voting and preferred, of Lar Brasileiro - Administracao 
e Servicos S.A. ("LBAS"), Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approxi-
mately Cr$5,000,000 (about $900,000), provided at least Cr$l,650,000 
(about $297,000), is invested in the shares within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is granted subject to the condition 
that LBAS confine its activities to the provision of financial data 
processing services in Brazil and activities incidental to that business. 
The Board's consent is also granted subject to the condition 
that, when required by the Board of Governors, CMOBC or CMB will furnish 
the Board with such reports regarding the activities of LBAS as it may 
require from time to time and maintain at its head office all such in-
formation as is necessary for a proper evaluation of the activities 
of LBAS by the Board's examiners. 
" "V 
'Che foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the acquisition will be made with the resources of Banco Lar and will 
not involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
570 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E * S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
2/29/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
t j O R R K B P Q N D E N C tC 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 29, 1972 
Girard International Bank 
67 Wall Street 
New York, New York 1000.'5 
Gentlemen: 
In response to your letter of January 17, 1972, the Board 
of Governors grants consent to the following: 
(1) Acquisition by Girard International Bank ("GIB") of 
all of the stock of Girard International Investment 
Corporation ("GIIC"); 
(2) Liquidation of GIIC, with GIB acquiring all of the 
assets of GIIC, including the stocks (or rights and 
consents thereto) held by GIIC, and assuming the 
liabilities of GIIC; and 
(3) Amendment to Article SEVENTH of GIB's Articles of 
Association reducing the par value from $1,000 to 
$10 and changing the number of shares from 3,000 
to 200,000, thereby reducing GIB's authorized capital 
from $3,000,000 to $2,000,000, the amount of the 
reduction being transferred to GIB's surplus. 
In this connection approval is also granted for the purchase and holding 
shares of GIIC by GIB in excess of the applicable limitations set 
forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the 
Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The foregoing consents are granted on the condition that GIB's 
Purchase and holding of the stocks presently held by GIIC are subject 
to 
the same conditions applicable to GIIC's purchase and holding thereof, 
and the further condition that GIB place on its books each of the stocks 
deceived from GIIC at the same amount as they are carried on the books of 
GIIC. 

-3-
571 
Upon completion of the respective changes, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
be furnished with a certified copy of Article SEVENTH, as amended, and 
advised of the date of liquidation of GIXC. 
The foregoing consents are given with the understanding that 
the position of Girard Trust Bank and its affiliates under the Foreign 
Credit Res traint Guidelines will not be altered thereby. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

572 
Item No. 3 
2/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
STATE NATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
State National Bancshares, Inc., EI Paso, Texas, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company 
through acquisition of (1) 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of the voting shares of the successor by merger to The State 
National Bank of El Paso, El Paso, Texas ("State Bank") and (2) 
indirect control of 30.07 per cent of the voting shares of Bassett 
National Bank, El Paso, 24.99 per cent of the voting shares of 
Citizens State Bank of Ysleta, Ysleta, and 24.27 per cent of the 
voting shares of The First N a t i o n a l Bank of Fabens, Fabens, all in 
Texas. 
The bank into which State Bank is to be merged has no sig-
nificance except as a means of acquiring all of the shares of State 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of the successor organi-
zation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares 
of State Bank. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C 1842(c)) and finds that: 

573 
-3-
Applicant is a recently organized corporation formed for the 
express purpose of acquiring State Bank ($184.1 million in deposits). 
1/ 
The Flory Company, 
at the present time a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
State Bank, owns 30.07 per cent of the voting shares of Bassett Bank 
($13.7 million in deposits), 24.99 per cent of Ysleta Bank ($6.3 
million in deposits), and 24.27 per cent of the voting shares of 
Fabens Bank ($5.2 million in deposits). (All banking data are as of 
December 31, 1970.) 
State Bank, Bassett Bank, Ysleta Bank, and Fabens Bank are 
the second, sixth, tenth, and eleventh largest of 13 banks in the El 
Paso SMSA and control 33.1 per cent, 2.5 per cent, 1.1 per cent, and 
.9 per cent, respectively, of area deposits. Applicant would beco.e 
the second largest banking organization in the area 
with 37.6 per 
cent of area deposits. 
Although all four banks whose shares are to be acquired by 
Applicant are located in the same area, no meaningful existing or 
Potential competition would be eliminated by consummation of the 
Proposal. State Bank and Bassett Bank have been affiliated since 
1964 through common ownership (State Bank shareholders presently own 
67.4 per cent of Bassett Bank), and The Flory Company has owned a 
y 
As a part of this transaction, The Flory Company will become a 
direct subsidiary of Applicant. The Flory Company now holds certain 
n°nbanking interests, which the Act requires that Applicant will 
divest itself of within two years, or within such other time as may 
!je Prescribed by § 4 of the Act. 
y 
This reflects the market position of Trans Texas Bancorporation, 
l n c., whose application to form a bank holding company has been 
aPproved by the Board. 

574 
-3-
substantial amount of stock of Ysleta Bank since 1962 and of Fabens Bank 
since 1965. Since the proposal is a formalization of an existing bank-
ing structure and there appears to be little likelihood of discontin-
uance of the present relationships, consummation of the proposal should 
have little effect on competition in the El Paso area. Moreover, State 
Bank is located in downtown El Paso, while the other three banks are 
suburban or rural banks which service primarily their own local areas. 
Based upon the foregoing and other facts of record, the Board con-
cludes that consummation of the proposal would not have an adverse 
effect on competition in any relevant area. 
On the record before the Board, considerations relating to 
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of Appli-
cant and of each of the banks whose shares are to be acquired are 
generally satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
Affiliation with Applicant should enable Bassett Bank, Ysleta 
Bank, and Fabens Bank to accommodate more easily larger loan requests, 
especially those from large manufacturing firms locating in the El 
Paso area. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
the communities to be served are consistent with approval. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 

575 
-3-
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
February 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Brimmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governor Robertson. 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
I would disapprove the application of State National 
Bancshares, Inc., to form a bank holding company. Approval of this 
application, together with that of Trans Texas Bancorporation, Inc., 
will result in two holding companies controlling eight out of thirteen 
banks in the El Paso banking market; these eight banks will hold 78 
Per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the El Paso market. 
These applications present hard cases. In both instances 
the smaller banks were formed as satellites of a lead bank in order 
to follow customers of the lead bank to the suburbs. This clearly 
beneficial in that more convenient banking services are thereby 
Provided to the public. 
Nevertheless, as the Supreme Court has noted, "(I]f con-
centration is already great, the importance of preventing even 
slight increases in concentration and so preserving the possibility 
eventual deconcentration is correspondingly great." United States 
v» Philadelphia- National Bank, 374 U.S. 321, n. 42 (1963). It is 
thi s rule of law which leads me to refrain from approving such an 
aPPlication. A holding company lends a degree of permanence to the 
banking structure that is not present when there exists merely com-
m°n ownership by individuals. Denial of this application would 
Preserve the possibility of eventual disaffiliation of the banks 
and deconcentration of the El Paso area. For these reasons, I 
v,°uld deny the application. 
February 29, 1972 

Item NS; 4 
2/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
TRANS TEXAS BANCORPORATION, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Trans Texas Bancorporation, Inc. ("Applicant") El Paso, 
Texas, has applied for the Board approval under § 3(a)(1) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of 
a bank holding company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more 
of the voting shares of El Paso National Bank ("El Paso Bank"), 
First State Bank ("First Bank"), Northgate National Bank of El 
Paso ("Northgate Bank"), and Border City Bank ("Border Bank") all 
of El Paso, Texas. 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth 
in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant is a recently organized corporation foymed for 
the express purpose of acquiring El Paso Bank ($201.4 million in 
deposits), First Bank ($18.6 million in deposits), Northgate Bank 
($14.0 million in deposits) and Border Bank ($1.0 million in deposits). 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1971.) These banks are respec-
tively the 1st, 5th, 6th, and 13th largest of the thirteen banks in 
the El Paso banking market and control, respectively, 35.5, 3.3, 
2.5, and 0.2 per cent of market deposits. Upon consummation of the 
Proposal, Applicant's 41.5 per cent of deposits would make it the 

-2-
largest banking organization in the market. State National Bancshares, 
Inc., whose application was approved by the Board today, would be the 
second largest organization with 37.6 per cent of area deposits. 
Majority shareholders of El Paso Bank organized First 
Bank in 1943, Northgate Bank in 1959 and Border Bank in 1971. 
El Paeo Bank is a full service bank serving the entire 
El Paso area, whereas the other three serve primarily their own 
particular suburban area. All four banks are in the same market 
area and absent the common ownership would be competitors to some 
extent despite the dispatities in their size. 
The United States Department of Justice advised the Board 
that in its opinion consummation of the proposal would have a 
significantly adverse effect on competition. Its advice was based 
on its view that the subject banks were in actual competition and 
that there was some degree of impernian^tic^ in the control relation-
ship. 
On the basis of the record, the Board concludes that there 
is no significant existing competition betx^een the banks involved. 
This is due to the fact that two individuals and their business 
associates control a majority of the voting shares of El Paso Bank, 
86 per cent of the shares of First Bank, 86 per cent of the shares 
of Northgate Bank, and 75 per cent of the shares of Border Bank. 
The two individuals themselves control over 25 per cent of the 
f 
voting shares of each of the three smaller banks. 

-3-
579 
In view of the close relationship between the banks over 
a long period of time, and the lack of any evidence on the record 
that dissipation of the common control is likely in the future, 
the Board concludes that present and potential competition would 
neither be foreclosed by approval of the application nor encouraged 
by its denial. Neither does it appear that competition with and between 
other banks in the area would be affected in any significant way. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
resources and future prospects of Applicant and the banks concerned 
are satisfactory and consistent with approval. Since the institutions 
involved are presently under common control it is unlikely that con-
summation of the proposal will have a significant effect on the 
banking convenience and needs of the communities to be served, 
although Applicant does propose to expand the services offered by 
the smaller banks. These considerations are consistent with but 
provide little weight toward approval of the applications. It is 
the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed transaction 
would be in the public interest, and that the application should be 
approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be con-
summated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date 
of this Order or (b) later than three months after the date of this 

Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated 
I 
i 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ February 29, 1972 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
1/ Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Maisel, 
Briirmer, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: Governor 
Robertson. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. Governor 
Robertson dissents for the reasons set forth in his dissent In 
the Matter of the Application of State National Bancshares, Inc., 
to become a bank holding company, which was approved on this date. 

Item N o S * ^ . 
2/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MERCANTILE BANCORPORATION INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bancorporation Inc., St. Louis, Missouri, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under % 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire at least 90 per cent of the voting 
shares of Franklin County Bank and Trust Company, Washington, Missouri 
("Bank"). 
Notice of receipt of the application has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act, and the time for filing comments 
and views has expired. The Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)) and finds that: 
Applicant, the largest banking organization and largest 
bank holding company in Missouri on the basis of deposits, has six 
subsidiary banks with aggregate deposits of $1,134 billion, representing 
9«9 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1971, adjusted to reflect holding company 
acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through January 31, 
1972.) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase Applicant's 
share of commercial bank deposits in the State to 10.1 per cent. 
Bank ($18.2 million of deposits) is the second largest of 
seven banks operating in the Washington banking market, which is 
approximated by the northern half of Franklin County and the southeast 

582 
-3-
corner of Uarren County, and holds about 23.5 per cent of the deposits 
in the market. Although Bank is one of the larger banks in the market, 
it is not dominant. The first and third largest banks in the market 
hold, respectively, 26.4 and 23.3 per cent of deposits. Applicant's 
subsidiary closest to bank is located 40 miles northeast of Bank, and 
none of Applicant's subsidiaries competes with Bank to any significant 
extent. Furthermore, in light of the facts of record, including the 
large number of banks in the area* Missouri's restrictive branching law, 
o 
and the unattractiveness of Bank's service area for de novo entry, the 
development of potential competition appears unlikely. It appears, 
therefore, that no meaningful existing competition would be eliminated, 
significant potential competition foreclosed, by consummation of Appli-
cant's proposal, nor that there would be adverse effects on any bank in 
the area involved. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are regarded as satisfactory 
consistent with approval of the application. The major banking needs 
the Washington area are being met by the existing financial institutions. 
Applicant proposes, however, to assist Bank in providing trust, bond, 
and related corporate services. By means of participations with Applicant's 
subsidiaries, Bank would be better able to increase its lending in the 
area of home mortgages and business loans. 
The addition of services 
a n d Bank's increased lending capability which would be made possible by 
c°nsummation of the proposal should benefit the residents of Bank's 

583 
-3-
service area. Considerations relating to convenience and needs of the 
area are consistent with and lend some weight toward approval of the 
application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the pro-
posed acquisition would be in the public interest, and that the applica-
tion should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
If 
By order of the Board of Governors,— February 20, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
j7~~Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
^aane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sheehan. 

Item No 
2/29/72 
C H A I R M A N O P T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
March 2, 1972 
The Honorable William J. Casey, 
Chairman, 
Securities and Exchange Commission, 
500 North Capitol Street, 
Washington, D. C. 20549 
Dear Chairman Casey: 
I wish to thank you for the opportunity to 
comment on various drafts of the proposed "Securities 
Transaction Processing Act of 1972," which have been 
supplied by Mrc Lee A 0 Pickard, your Special Counsel,, 
Mr. Frederic Solomon, Director of our Division of Super-
vision and Regulation, has advised me that suggestions 
he has offered have been sympathetically received and 
largely incorporated in the drafts. 
We have also been pleased to have our view 
confirmed that the legislation is not in any way intended 
to affect the 12 Federal Reserve Banks. 
With best wishes 
Sincerely yours 
(Signed) Arthur F. Burns 
Arthur F. Burns 

•f^LRt^;-
5 8 ? 
Item No. 7 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
2/29/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 1, 1972 
The Honorable Wilfred H. Rommel 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This refers to Mr. Skidmore's letter of February 16, 
1972, requesting comments on an SEC draft bill, "Securities 
Transaction Processing Act of 1972." In addition to the draft 
bill attached to Mr. Skidmore's letter, we have received from 
the SEC further revised drafts. 
The proposed legislation is designed to foster prompt 
and accurate processing and settlement of securities trans-
actions, and includes provisions for regulation of "clearing 
agencies," "depositories" and "transfer agents", as well as 
provisions for standardization of stock certificates and other 
securities. With respect to transfer agents, examination and 
enforcement would be apportioned among the three bank super-
visory agencies as to banks and assigned to the SEC as to 
nonbanks. The SEC would prescribe regulations regarding 
performance of the transfer agent function, but before doing 
so must consult v/ith and obtain the views of the bank super-
visory agencies. 
The Board believes the proposed legislation is 
desirable and would recommend enactment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 
. 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
2/29/72 
D F 
T H E 
§ g f | M : - 
f e d e r a l 
r e s e r v e 
s y s t e m 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
a u d h e b s 
d f f i c i a i . 
c d r r e s p u n o f n c 
• 
TO THt QDdUD 
February 29, 1972 
Mr. Bayard L. England, Chairman 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
925 Chestnut Street 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19101 
Dear Mr. England: 
, „f 
. , T h e B o a r d o f Governors acknowledges your 
letter ot January 21, 1972 to Vice Chairman'Robertson 
indicating your Board's approval of the salaries for" 
P.csiaent Lastburn and First Vice President 1/iUes 
J.he Board also acknowledges your request for a review 
oj their salaries at an early date. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 

B O A R D • F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 9 
2/29/72 
587 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 29, 1972 
Mr. William V. Skidmore 
Assistant Director for Legislative Reference 
Office of Management and Budget 
Washington, D.C. 20503 
Subject: SBA draft "Small Business Technology Investment Act of 1972" 
Dear Mr. Skidmore: 
The Board of Governors favors the enactment of legislation, 
such as the SBA draft bill, that would encourage further financial 
assistance by banks to small businesses by restoring the authority 
for a Federally insured bank to acquire a majority of the voting 
shares of a small business investment company. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 10 
2/29/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
(12 CFR PARTS 207, 220, and 221) 
(Regs. G, T, and U) 
SECURITIES CREDIT TRANSACTIONS 
Notice postponing effective date of 
proposed amendments in regard to 
Credit to Contribute Capital to Brokers 
and Dealers. 
1. Pursuant to the authority contained in the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78g), the Board of Governors, on 
July 9, 1971 (36 Federal Register 13218), published revisions to 
its proposals to amend Parts 207, 220, and 22.1 (Regulations G, T, 
and U), to become effective October 1, 1971, but postponed to March 1, 
1972 by Notice (36 Federal Register 22855). 
2. Upon request made to the Board and in anticipation 
of proposed rules on the same subject matter by other regulatory 
bodies, the Board hereby announces that it will postpone the proposed 
effective date to September 1, 1972. 
3. As a result of the postponement of the proposed effective 
date, the proposed changes to Regulations G, T, and U would apply to 
credit extended by banks, brokers or dealers, and persons subject to 
Regulation G after September I, 1972 and to renewals after such date 
credit extended by banks after 
(i) April 16, 1971 in the case of credit extended 
to a customer for the purpose of making a loan 

or contribution of capital to a broker or dealer 
subject to Part 220 (Regulation T), 
(ii) July 9, 1971 in the case of credit extended 
directly to a broker or dealer. 
By order of the Board of Governors, February 29, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith, 
Secretary to the Board. 
