FR 609 
Minutes for February 4, 1969 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 1/ 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the mini 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
1/ Meeting with Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks. 

, 443 
A joint meeting of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System and the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks 
was held in the Board Room of the Federal Reserve Building in 
Washington, D. C., at 2:30 p.m. on Tuesday, February 4, 1969. 
All of the members of the Board except Governors Robertson 
and Daane were present. The Board's staff was represented by 
Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, Molony, Hexter, Johnson, O'Connell, Kiley, 
and Wood (Personnel). 
All of the Reserve Bank Presidents were present except 
Messrs. Bopp and Scanlon. The Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia 
and Chicago were represented by First Vice Presidents Hilkert and 
Helmer, respectively. Mr. Hamilton, Secretary of the Conference 
of Presidents, also was present. 
x/ This meeting had been called in light of questions of 
policy and procedure that had arisen out of efforts on the part 
of labor unions (notably in San Francisco) to organize groups 
of Federal Reserve Bank employees. 
The Board was advised that the Presidents had discussed 
the subject to some extent just prior to this joint meeting and 
had concluded that it would be desirable for the Board and the 
Presidents jointly to initiate a study with a view to determining 
the feasibility of developing a policy statement that would be 
applicable on a System basis in dealing with matters of this kind. 

2/4/69 
-2-
A joint effort was suggested in recognition of the fact that 
responsibilities in this area were shared by the Board and by 
the Federal Reserve Banks. The Presidents also believed that 
it would be advisable to obtain expert advice on a consultant 
basis. 
Some Presidents emphasized that in their view any 
policy statement that was developed on a System basis should 
provide a degree of flexibility sufficient to enable individual 
Reserve Banks to respond effectively to situations of varying 
types as they might develop in their respective communities. 
The Presidents were advised that the Board had been 
looking into possibilities for retaining expert advice and that 
discussions were even now being held with an individual experienced 
in this field to ascertain his availability for such an assignment. 
Question was raised whether there was any inclination to 
feel that the Federal Reserve Banks should simply stand firm on 
a position that Reserve Bank employees did not legally have the 
right to organize and negotiate. Chairman Martin replied that, 
to the contrary, the Board considered this an area that should 
be explored fully without prejudice. He added that the Board 
had not thought through such distinctions as might exist between 
the positions of the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks, and 
Chairman Clay said this was one reason why the Presidents believed 
a joint study would be valuable. 

2/4/69 
_3_ 
Reference was made to Executive Order 10988, and some 
preliminary views were expressed as to advantages and dis-
advantages that might exist in using the provisions of that 
Order, with necessary modifications, as a framework for devel-
oping Federal Reserve guidelines. 
Chairman Martin then stated that apparently those 
present were close enough together in their thinking to indicate 
that it would be appropriate to go forward with obtaining expert 
consulting advice. He also stated that the Board was designating 
Governor Sherrill to work on the subject on behalf of the Board 
with whatever committee of Presidents might be designated. 
The Conference designated the members of the Committee 
on Personnel (Messrs. Galusha, Francis, and Hayes) plus President 
Swan. 
Particularly in view of developments in San Francisco, 
it was agreed that the work of the joint committee should proceed 
as expeditiously as possible. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
