MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 12, 1972 

966 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, April 12, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Chicago, 
St« Louis, Kansas City, Dallas, and San Francisco on April 6, 1972, of the 
rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules was approved 
Unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice would be 
Sent to those Banks. 
uc 
Virginia National Bankshares. The members of the Board had been 
furnished copies of a draft order reflecting denial, on April 6, 1972, of 

4/12/72 
-2-
the application of Virginia National Bankshares, Inc., Norfolk, Virginia, 
to become a bank holding company through acquisition of shares of the 
successors by merger to Virginia National Bank, Norfolk, Virginia, and 
The Colonial-American National Bank of Roanoke, Roanoke, Virginia. Copies 
a dissenting statement by Governor Daane also had been distributed. 
Discussion centered upon a view that the draft explanation of 
the majority position unduly stressed the foreclosure of potential com-
petition. Governor Daane said it had been his understanding that the 
denial decision had rested primarily on that question. He wondered whether 
the disposition not to stress it might imply a change in attitude. Gov-
ernor Mitchell reminded the Board that he had considered the case so 
dose that he could vote on either side in good conscience, but that in 
ar*y event he would vote with the majority . Negative responses were made 
t o an inquiry whether any of the other members of the majority were in-
clined to change their positions. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
rationale underlying the majority decision would be redrafted in consul-
tation with Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson and Daane,' and issuance 
the documents as thus revised was authorized. 
(It later developed that time pressures precluded obtaining agree-
ment upon a revised statement for issuance today. The question was there-
fore redocketed.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
