FR 609 
(Rev. 3/70) 
Minutes for 
June 16, 1970 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. 
If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
C i : 
Chairman Burns 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 
Note: No changes from draft minutes. 

1816 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, June 16, 1970. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr 
Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr 
Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. O'Connell, Deputy General Counsel 
Mr 
Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Sanders, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Noble, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr 
Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate staff members also attended 
portions of the meeting. 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Boston on June 16 and by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, Minneapolis, Kansas City, 

1 8 1 7 
6/16/70 
-2-
and Dallas on June 11, 1970, of the rates on discounts and advances in 
their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Chase International Investment Corporation. 
Unanimous approval 
was given to a letter to Chase International Investment Corporation, 
New York, New York, denying its request for consent to acquire shares 
of Irish University Press, Limited, Dublin, Ireland, but indicating 
that an acquisition of debentures in the amount specified would appear 
to conform to the regulatory limitations. A copy of the letter is 
attached as Item No. 1. 
Interest rate limitations. 
Question had been raised by the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of New York on behalf of member banks as to whether 
(1) the East African Development Bank, (2) the Kuwait Fund for Arab 
• 
i 
• • , 
Economic Development, and (3) certain Eastern European financial insti-
tutions were exempt from the interest rate limitations of Regulation Q, 
Payment of Interest on Deposits, by virtue of the provisions of section 
2 1
-7-3(g) relating to time deposits of certain foreign governmental 
entities and international organizations. 
The Legal Division proposed 
that (1) the East African Development Bank not be considered exempt in 
view of the provision for up to 40 per cent equity ownership of the 
bank by private financial institutions; (2) the Kuwait Fund be considered 
exempt since it appeared to be engaged principally in activities ordinarily 

1 8 . 1 8 
6/16/70 
-3-
performed in the United States by governmental entities; and (3) with 
respect to the Eastern European financial institutions, if a specific 
ruling was desired on any of them the member bank concerned be requested 
to furnish detailed information relating to the organizational structure 
and functions of the institution. However, as a general statement, for-
eign institutions maintaining accounts with the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York would be considered exempt from the interest rate limitations. 
Governor Brimmer expressed concern that sufficient information 
was not available with respect to the East African Development Bank to 
permit an informed judgement. 
He proposed that a ruling with respect 
to that bank be postponed, and other members of the Board agreed. 
No 
obj ection was interposed to the position proposed by the staff with 
respect to the Kuwait Fund and the Eastern European financial institu-
tions . 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York in the form attached as Item No. 2. 
Pan American Bancshares. A memorandum from the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation dated June 10, 1970, and other pertinent 
papers had been distributed in connection with an application of Pan 
American Bancshares, Inc., Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Cit-
izens National Bank of Orlando. The staff recommended approval. 

181!) 
6/16/70 
-4-
The application was approved unanimously, with the understand-
ing that an order would be drafted for the Board's consideration. 
Marshall & lis ley Bank Stock Corporation. A memorandum from the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation dated June 11, 1970, and other 
pertinent papers, including a proposed order, had been distributed in 
connection with an application of Marshall & Ilsley Bank Stock Corpora-
tion, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, to acquire shares of Ripon State Bank, Ripon. 
The recommendations were favorable. 
The application was approved unanimously, and the issuance of the 
order was authorized. A copy of the document, as issued, is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Report on competitive factors. A report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of The State Commercial Bank, 
Thomasville, North Carolina, into North Carolina National Bank, Char-
lotte, w a s
 approved unanimously for transmittal to the Comptroller of 
the Currency. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The State Commercial 
Bank, Thomasville, and North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, 
would eliminate existing competition between the two banks. 
In 
addition, it would concentrate further banking resources in 
North Carolina. 
Overall, the effect of the proposal on competi-
tion would be adverse. 
Student loans. The Executive Director of the Pennsylvania 
State Higher Education Assistance Agency had requested that the Board 
•i 
i 
amend Regulations D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Q, Payment of Interest 

1 8 ^ 0 
6/16/70 
-5-
on Deposits, so as to exempt from "deposits" a bank's liability on a 
repurchase agreement involving student loans fully guaranteed as to 
principal and interest by the State and 80 per cent guaranteed as to 
principal by the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare. 
In a memorandum dated June 9, 1970, the Legal Division discussed 
the proposal and submitted a negative recommendation. 
The proposed reply 
reviewed the Board's consideration of bank liabilities on repurchase 
agreements as deposits subject to Regulations D and Q, pointed out some 
of the reasons militating against adoption of the current proposal at 
the present time, and indicated that the proposal would be borne in 
mind should the situation change in the future. 
Governor Maisel stated that he would prefer not to debate in 
the reply the logic of the Board's position. He suggested that the 
letter merely advise of the decision reached, and other members of the 
Board concurred. 
Unanimous approval was then given to a letter in the form 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff atten-
dance . 
V-loan. Mr, Holland reported that negotiations were continuing 
with respect to the proposed extension of credit by a consortium of 
banks to the Penn Central Transportation Company in the form of a 

1 8 2 1 
6/16/70 
-6-
V-loan that would be fully guaranteed, probably by the Navy Department. 
He pointed out that a standard form of guarantee agreement was incor-
porated by inference into Regulation V, Loan Guarantees for Defense 
Production. 
In the current negotiations the banks reportedly had 
agreed to hold the loan until maturity, except in the case of default, 
while it was understood that the guaranteeing agency might agree to 
relinquish its right to purchase the loan voluntarily at any time. 
These would be deviations from the standard form of agreement, and 
some type of Board action might be called for. 
Discussion followed concerning the effect of changes in the 
form of agreement such as Mr. Holland had mentioned, and concerning 
the responsibility of a Federal Reserve Bank in its capacity as fiscal 
agent for the guaranteeing agency, particularly in submitting a recom-
mendation on the creditworthiness of a proposed loan. 
It was not as 
yet clear exactly what the Board might be called upon to consider. 
However, it was noted that under the terms of the statute the Board was 
required to prescribe, after consultation with the guaranteeing agencies, 
forms to be followed in the execution of guarantees. The procedure 
normally followed in consulting with the guaranteeing agencies on Reg-
ulation V matters was described by the staff. There was also discus-
sion of the responsibilities of the Board under the executive order in 
which the President had delegated authority conferred upon him by the 
Defense Production Act relating to the V-loan program. 

6/16/70 
-7-
Chairman Burns then noted that negotiations were still under 
way and no action by the Board was called for at this time. 
Governor 
Brimmer expressed the view, in which Chairman Burns concurred, that 
if action was indicated prior to the next scheduled meeting of the 
Board, a special meeting should be called. 
Request from Agency for International Development. 
Unanimous 
approval was given to complying with a request from the Agency for 
International Development that Henry F. Lee, Economist in the Division 
of International Finance, be made available for an advisory mission to 
Vietnam for a period of about four weeks, it being understood that AID 
would pay Mr. Lee's travel costs and per diem. The Board also authorized 
Mr. Lee to visit central banks and other financial institutions in Thai-
land, Malaysia, India, and Pakistan on his return trip. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
1823 
Item No. 1 
6/16/70 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
O Q A P D 
June 16, 1970 
Chase International Investment Corporation, 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, 
New York, New York. 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
Reference is made to your letters of April 9 and 20, 1970, 
requesting consent of the Board of Governors for your Corporation to 
purchase and hold 100,000 shares of Irish University Press, Limited 
("IIJP/Ltd."), Dublin, Ireland, at a cost of approximately $240,000, 
and to acquire and hold up to approximately $960,000 principal amount 
of debentures of IUP/Ltd. 
It is understood that IUP/Ltd. is a publisher of primary 
source material for use in universities and research centers and that 
it exports its entire production. Your application stated that 
IUP/Ltd. has two wholly-owned subsidiaries, Irish University Press, 
Inc. ("IUP/lnc."), a Delaware corporation, and Irish University Press 
(International) Ltd. The Delaware subsidiary cultivates customer 
relationships and takes orders from United States customers. 
Your 
letter stated that, presently, over 50 per cent of IUP/Ltd. sales are 
made in the United States. 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act prohibits Edge 
Corporations from acquiring shares in any company "engaged in the 
general business of buying or selling goods, wares, merchandise, or 
commodities in the United States." On the basis of its understanding 
°f the information submitted, the Board has concluded that IUP/Ltd., 
and its wholly-owned subsidiary, I U P / l n c . , constitute a single entity 
engaged in activity of the kind described in the above provision of 
the Act and that, accordingly, the proposed stock acquisition in 
question would not be permissible under the statute. Your requesc 
for consent to purchase and hold shares of IUP/Ltd. is, therefore, 
denied. 

1824 
Chase International 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
The purchase and holding of debentures of IUP/Ltd. up to 
approximately $960,000 would appear to conform to the provisions 
of Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
.-.: Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
• 

I 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
r H E
 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/16/70 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 17, 1970 
Mr. J. H. Booth, Manager, 
Bank Examinations Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Booth: 
Your letter of May 6, 1970 raised the questions whether 
(1) the East African Development Bank, (2) the Kuwait Fund for 
Arab Economic Development, and (3) certain East European financial 
institutions are exempt from the interest rate limitations of 
Regulation Q by virtue of the provisions of § 217.3(g). 
(1) Whether the Board should exempt the East African 
Development Bank under § 217.3(g)(3) of Regulation Q is still under 
consideration and you will be advised when a determination on this 
question is reached. 
(2) As to the Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development, 
it appears that the Fund is wholly owned by the Kuwait Government 
and that its function is to assist other Arab governments in 
financing their long-term economic development projects. 
Since 
this function is similar to that of the Agency for International 
Development and other Federal agencies in the United States which 
assist in financing economic development in the developing nations 
of the world, the Kuwait Fund would be exempt from the interest 
rate limitations of Regulation Q under § 217.3(g)(1) as 
an agency 
or instrumentality [of a foreign government] engaged principally 
in activities which are ordinarily performed in the United States 
by governmental entities". 
(3) With respect to the East European financial institutions 
listed in your letter, the Board has concluded that, In general, for-
eign institutions which maintain an account with the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York may be regarded as exempt from the interest rate limi-
tations of Regulation Q pursuant to § 217.3(g)(1), unless it appears 
that such an institution is not engaged principally in activities which 

1 8 2 6 
Mr. J. H. Booth 
-2-
are ordinarily performed in the United States by governmental entities. 
If it is desired that the Board rule specifically on any such institu-
tion, please have the member bank requesting the ruling submit detailed 
information, in English, on the organizational structure and functions 
of each such institution. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A . Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 

l S i > 7 
Item No. 3 
UNITELL !&ATKS OF AMERICA 
6/16/70 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
MARSHALL & ILSLEY BANK STOCK 
CORPORATION, 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
for approval of acquisition of 80 per 
cent or more of the voting shares of 
Ripon State Bank, Ripon, Wisconsin. 
ORDER APPROVING ACQUISITION OF BANK STOCK 
BY BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant 
t(
> section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve 
Regulation Y (12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by Marshall & Ilsley 
fi
ank Stock Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin ("Applicant"), a registered 
b
ank holding company, for the Board's prior approval of the acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Ripon State Bank, Ripon, 
Wisconsin ("Bank"). 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave written 
n
°tice of receipt of the application to the Commissioner of Banking 

1 8 i > 8 
- 2 -
for the State of Wisconsin and requested his views and recommendation. 
The Commissioner responded that he had no objection to approval of 
the application. 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on May 8, 1970 (35 Federal Register 7272), providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and views with 
respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the application was 
forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its consideration. 
T
he time for filing comments and views has expired and all those received 
have been considered by the Board. 
The Board has considered the application in the light of the 
factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, including the effect of 
t h
e proposed acquisition on competition, the financial and managerial 
resources of the Applicant and the banks concerned, and the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served. Upon such consideration, the 
B
°ard finds that: 
Applicant, the third largest bank holding company and banking 
°
r
ganization in Wisconsin, controls 10 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$ 5 1
°
 m
i H i o n , representing 6.11 per cent of the State's total deposits. 
( A U
 hanking data are as of June 30, 1969, adjusted to reflect bank 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board to date.) 
Th 
e
 acquisition of Bank ($11 million deposits) would have no significant 
e f f
ect on State-wide concentration. Bank, one of two banks with offices 
Ripon, operates branches in Brandon and Fairwater, and is comparable in 

1 8 2 9 
size to Ripon's other bank, exceeding the latter's deposits by only 
$300,000. It is the third largest of 10 independent banks operating 
within the area it serves, and is situated 35 miles from Applicant's 
barest subsidiary banking office. It does not appear that consummation 
this proposal would eliminate existing competition or foreclose 
significant potential competition, or that it would have any unduly 
adverse effects on other competing banks. 
Based upon the foregoing, the Board concludes that consummation 
the proposed acquisition would not adversely affect competition in any 
relevant area. The banking factors, as they pertain to Applicant, its 
subsidiaries, and Bank, are consistent with approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to community convenience and needs weigh in 
f
*vor of approval of the application because of the expanded and improved 
^rvices that would be made available by Bank. It is the Board's judgment 
^ a t the proposed transaction would be in the public interest, and that 
t h e
 application should be approved. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth above, that 
Sa
i<* application be and hereby is approved, provided that the acquisition so 
approved, shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
d a
y following the date of this Order or (b) later than three months 
a f
ter the date of this Order, unless such period is extended for good 

1830 
cause by the 
to delegated 
By 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors 
Robertson, Maisel, and Brimmer. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant 
authority. 
order of the Board of Governors, June 16,1970. 
s 
j jji)* 

1831 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2C55! 
• F 
T H E 
A D D R E S S 
D F F I C i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Item No. 4 
6/16/70 
June 25, 1970 
M r . Kenneth R. Reeher 
Executive Director 
Higher Education Assistance Agency 
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania 
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania 
17102 
Dear Mr. Reeher: 
This is i n response to your letter of February 26, 1970, 
supplemented by your letter of April 13, 1970, i n which you ask 
that the Board amend section 204.1(f) of Regulation D and section 
217.1(f) of Regulation Q to exempt from "deposits" for the purposes 
of those regulations a bank's liability on a repurchase agreement 
with the State Employees' Retirement Board or the Public School 
Employees1 Retirement Board involving student loans fully guaranteed 
by the State and 80 per cent guaranteed by the Department of Health, 
Education and Welfare. 
The Board has carefully considered the circumstances 
surrounding your request, including the meritorious objective of 
encouraging banks to make more student loans. However, after 
examining the matter in the light of relevant legal and policy 
considerations, the Board has concluded that a modification of 
its regulations in the manner you propose would not be in the 
Public interest. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Kenneth A. Kenyon 
Kenneth A. Kenyon, 
Deputy Secretary. 
