Minutes for February 5, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System on the above date. 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 
Revision of Regulation 0, Loans to 
Executive Officers of Member Banks. 
Should you have any question with regard to the minutes, 
it will be appreciated if you will advise the Secretary's Office. 
Otherwise, please initial below. If you were present at the meet-
ing, your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. If you 
were not present, your initials will indicate only that you have 
seen the minutes. 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, February 5, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Martin, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Miss McWhirter, Analyst, Office of the Secretary 
Messrs. Partee, Axilrod, Gramley, Williams, 
Sigel, Smith, Wernick, Eckert, Keir, Weiner, 
Ettin, Gehman, Kichline, Taylor, Thompson, 
Trueblood, and Zeisel, and Mrs. Smelker of 
the Division of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Sammons, Hersey, Irvine, Katz, Wood, 
Bryant, Emery, Gekker, Maroni, Mills, Pizer, 
and Roxon of the Division of International 
Finance 
Economic review. The staff presented a review of economic and 
financial conditions here and abroad, the format being that generally 
followed in reviews given prior to meetings of the Federal Open Market 
Committee. The presentations were based to some extent on material 
that had been distributed preparatory to tomorrow's Committee meeting, 
and copies of the relevant documentation have been placed in the 
Committee's files. 

2 
2/5/68 
-4-
Members of the research staff except Mr. Brill then withdrew 
and the following entered: 
Messrs. Hexter, O'Connell, Sanders, and Shuter of the 
Legal Division 
Messrs. Farrell, Mcintosh, and White of the Division 
of Bank Operations 
Detroit Branch building project (Item No. 1). On June 8, 1967, 
the Board authorized an expenditure of $135,700 for the construction 
of a penthouse and installation of an incinerator at the Detroit Branch 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. The bids now received proved 
to be substantially in excess of the estimates, but the directors of 
the Reserve Bank and the Detroit Branch concluded that the project was 
necessary. Accordingly, authority was requested for an expenditure 
not to exceed $300,000. 
A memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated 
February 1, 1968, described factors that contributed to the increase 
above the original estimates, and the Division recommended that the 
Board approve the revised proposed expenditure. 
After consideration the recommendation was accepted, and unani-
mous approval was given to a telegram to the Chicago Reserve Bank in 
the form attached as Item No. 1. 
Property insurance in urban areas (Item No. 2). The Bureau of 
the Budget had requested the Board's views on a draft bill to establish 
a National Insurance Development Corporation to assure the availability 
of property insurance in urban areas. The proposed legislation was 

484 
2/5/68 
-4-
summarized in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated February 2, 
1968. 
It was believed that enactment of the proposed legislation 
would not significantly affect the development and implementation of 
monetary policy, and it was recommended that the Board offer no com-
ments with respect to the draft bill. 
Governor Brimmer agreed that the proposed legislation was not 
directly related to the monetary policy area. However, it dealt with 
the health of urban areas, a matter of vital import to the strength of 
the entire nation. 
It appeared to him that it would be helpful if the 
Board went at least as far as to express no objection rather than to 
take a position that might appear to be one of complete indifference. 
Messrs. Sanders and Hexter noted that the Board had customarily 
refrained from attempting to comment on proposed legislation of a broad 
social character. They also pointed out that in this case the request 
of the Budget Bureau had been addressed to a substantial number of 
departments and agencies, which suggested that the Bureau probably did 
not expect the Board to express an opinion with regard to the proposal 
unless there was some interest in it from the standpoint of the Board's 
statutory responsibilities. 
Comments that followed reflected recognition of the difficulty 
that would be involved in reaching judgments, as a Board, on legisla-
tive proposals--many of them complex--that did not directly affect the 
Federal Reserve, and at the conclusion of the discussion approval was 
given to a letter in the form attached as Item No. 2. 

485 
2/5/68 
-4-
Revision of Regulation 0 (Items 3 and 4). In September 1967 
the Board published for comment a proposed revision of Regulation 0 
(Loans to Executive Officers of Member Banks). With one principal 
exception, the purpose of the revision was to conform the regulation 
to the July 1967 amendments to section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. The exception was a proposed redefinition of the term "executive 
officer" that would narrow the coverage of the regulation. 
The numerous comments that had been received were summarized 
and analyzed in an attachment to a memorandum from the Legal Division 
dated January 23, 1968. Several of the suggestions, along with certain 
other changes, had been incorporated in a new draft of revised Regula-
tion 0, also attached to the memorandum. The Legal Division recommended 
that the proposed revised regulation be adopted. 
After discussion the revised Regulation 0 was adopted by unani-
mous vote, effective March 15, 1968. 
A copy of the press statement that was released announcing the 
revised regulation is attached as Item No. 3; attached as Item No. 4 
is a copy of the revised regulation in the form in which it was sent 
to the Federal Register. 
Leaves of absence (Item No. 5). The Secretary noted that let-
ters had been received from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York advis-
ing that the directors of the Bank had granted (1) a leave of absence 
without pay to Frederick W. Deming in order that he might serve on the 

2/5/68 
-5-
staff of the Council of Economic Advisers for a period of approximately 
one year beginning in mid-February 1968, and (2) a leave of absence 
with pay to David G. Holdsworth to permit him to serve on the staff of 
the Indus try-Government Special Travel Task Force for approximately 
three and one-half months. 
It was understood that a letter of acknowledgment would be 
sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; a copy is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
The Secretary noted that there might be an opportunity to bring 
Mr. Deming to the Board's offices for a brief period, before he under-
took his duties with the Council of Economic Advisers, to enable him to 
become better acquainted with the Board's personnel and operations. 
Members of the staff except Messrs. Holland and Kenyon withdrew 
from the meeting at this point. 
Truth-in-lending. 
Governor Robertson referred to the prospect 
that the Congress would enact truth-in-lending legislation within the 
near future and outlined steps that he was exploring to provide staff 
to administer the responsibilities that would be vested in the Board 
under such legislation. 
In summary, his plan contemplated the estab-
lishment of a new administrative unit as a separate part of the Board's 
budget, with the principal positions filled for an initial period mainly 
by persons recruited from Federal Reserve Banks or retained on a consul-
tant basis, thus minimizing the necessity of detaching members of the 
Board's professional staff for such duties. 

2/5/68 
-6-
Governor Robertson also indicated that consideration was being 
given to the use of such an organizational framework for handling admin-
istrative responsibilities under the new margin regulations, and that 
in the longer run plans might be developed for the creation of a divi-
sion that would have responsibility for the administration of several 
financial regulations. He stated that he would present recommendations 
to the Board as developments unfolded. 
Secretary's Note: In this connection 
Governor Robertson approved on behalf 
of the Board the following recommenda-
tion contained in a memorandum of 
January 29, 1968, from the Controller 
and the Director of the Division of 
Personnel Administration: 
1. A Truth in Lending Unit shall be instituted as a 
separate part of the Board's budget, not to be construed 
as under the budgetary and administrative control of any 
Division of the Board. This unit shall be charged with 
all expenses in connection with the Truth in Lending 
Project in a manner similar to charges to various Divi-
sions of the Board for expenditures, including salaries, 
consultants' fees, travel expenses, contractual and other 
services, etc. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Note: Governor Robertson 
today approved on behalf of the Board 
the following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated 
February 2, 1968, requesting the establishment of an additional secre-
tarial position in Governor Brimmer's office. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

2/5/68 
-5-
r • 
Appointments 
Donald Matthews as Research Assistant, Division of Research and 
Statistics, with basic annual salary at the rate of $6,342, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Mary Susan Richardson Whisnant as Assistant Federal Reserve Exam-
iner, Division of Examinations, with basic annual salary at the rate 
of $7,634, effective the date of entrance upon duty. 
Cecilia A. Lawson, from the position of Secretary in the Office 
of the Secretary to the position of Secretary in the Board Members1 
Offices, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $5,751, 
effective February 5, 1968. 
Permission to engage in outside activity 
Norman F. Blycher, Systems Analyst, Division of Data Processing, 
to teach programming and software at the Northern Virginia Community 
College. 
Transfer 
Secretary 

483 
Item No. 1 
T E L E G R A M 
2/5/68 
M C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
February 5, 1968 
Scanlon - Chicago 
Reur letter January 25, 1968, concerning construction of penthouse 
and installation of an incinerator at the Detroit Branch, Board 
approves acceptance of bid recommended by the Directors of the 
Chicago Reserve Bank and the Detroit Branch and authorizes an 
expenditure of not to exceed $300,000 for this purpose. 
HOLLAND 
0 

430 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 2 
2/5/68 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
fw res?: 
ADDRESS DFFICIAL C D R R E S P • N D E N C E 
TD THE BOARD 
February 5, 1968 
Mr. Wilfred H. Rommel, 
Assistant Director for 
Legislative Reference, 
Bureau of the Budget, 
Washington, D. C. 20503 
Dear Mr. Rommel: 
This is in response to your request of January 30, 1968, 
for the Board's views on a January 22, 1968, draft of a bill "To 
establish the National Insurance Development Corporation to assure 
the availability of property insurance in urban areas, and for 
other purposes". 
The Board understands that the primary purpose of this 
proposal is to encourage and assist States and insurance companies 
to develop programs under which property insurance coverage will be 
more readily available in urban areas to owners of properties meet-
ing reasonable insurance underwriting standards, without regard to 
environmental hazards. Such a proposal would not affect the per-
formance by the Board of its responsibilities, and, accordingly, 
we have no comments to offer for your consideration with respect 
to the draft bill. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
Item No. 3 
2/5/68 
For immediate release. 
February 7, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
announced today it had amended its Regulation 0, governing conditions 
under which the executive officers of a member bank may borrow from 
their own bank, to bring the regulation into conformity with recent 
legislation by the Congress liberalizing the basis for such loans. 
At the same time, the Board also redefined the term 
"executive officer," limiting its applicability to persons partici-
pating in the determination of major policies of a member bank. As a 
result, many bank officers with lesser responsibilities will have freer 
access to the credit facilities of their own institution. 
Under the law and the new provisions of Regulation 0, 
which will become effective March 15, 1968, executive officers of 
member banks may borrow up to $30,000 for a home mortgage, $10,000 for 
the education of children, and $5,000 for any unspecified purpose. 
Previously, an executive officer could not borrow more than $2,500 from 
his bank. 
The new definition of executive officer excludes those 
persons who do not participate in the determination of major policies 
of a bank and whose decisions are limited by standards fixed by top 
management. As a result many persons who have official titles and may 
exercise some discretion in the performance of their duties, including 

492 
-6-
the making of loans, would not be subject to the loan limitations of 
the law and regulation. For example, under the revised definition a 
manager or assistant manager of a branch of a bank would not be 
considered an "executive officer" unless that person participated in 
major policy decisions. 
The text of the Board's revised Regulation 0, ccncerning 
loans by member banks to their executive officers, has been sent to the 
Federal Register for publication. 

TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
493 
Item No. 4 
2/5/68 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 215 - LOANS TO EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF MEMBER BANKS 
Revision 
1. Effective March 15, 1960, Part 215 is revised to read as follows 
Sec. 
215.1 Basis and scope. 
215.2 Definitions. 
215.3 General prohibitions, 
215.4 Exceptions, 
215.5 Requirements for extensions of credit. 
215.6 Reports of indebtedness to other banks, 
215.7 Reports of member banks. 
§ 215.1 Basis and scope. 
This Part is issued pursuant to sections ll(i) and 22(g) of 
the Federal Reserve Act, as amended (12 U.S.C. 24C(i) and 375a), and 
relates to extensions of credit by member banks to their executive 
officers and reports of such indebtedness. 
§ 215.2 Definitions. 
(a) "Member bank". The terra "member bank" means any banking 
institution that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, 
(b) "Executive officer". The terra "executive officer" means 
every officer of a member bank x/ho participates or has authority to 
participate, otherwise than in the capacity of a director, in major 
policy-making functions of the bank, regardless of whether he has an 
official title or whether his title contains a designation of assistant 
and regardless of whether he is serving without salary or other compen-
1/ 
sation. 
The chairman of the board, the president, every vice president, 
1/ The tern is not intended to include persons who may have official titles 
and raay exercise a certain measure of discretion in the performance of 
their duties, including discretion in the making of loans but who do not 
participate in the determination of major policies of the bank and whose 
decisions are circumscribed by policy standards fixed by the top management 
of the bank. For example, the term would not include a manager or assistant 
manager of a branch of a bank unless he participates or is authorized to 
participate in major policy-making functions. 

434 
-2-
the cashier, secretary, and treasurer of a member bank are assumed to 
be executive officers, unless, by resolution of the board of directors 
or by the bank's bylaws, any such officer is excluded from participation 
in major policy-making functions, otherwise than in the capacity of 
2/ 
a director of the bank, and he does not actually participate therein, 
(c) "Extension of credit" and "extend credit". . The terms 
"extension of credit" and "extend credit" mean the making of a loan 
or the extending of credit in any manner whatsoever, and include: 
(1) any advance by means of an overdraft, cash item, or 
otherwise; 
(2) the acquisition by discount, purchase, exchange, or 
otherwise of any note, draft, bill of exchange, or other evidence of 
• < 
• 
indebtedness upon which an executive officer may be liable as maker, 
drawer, indorser, guarantor, or surety; 
(3) the increase of an existing indebtedness, except on 
V 
account of accrued interest or on account of taxes, insurance, or 
other expenses incidental to the existing indebtedness and advanced 
by the bank for its own protection; 
(4) any advance of unearned salary or other unearned com-
pensation for periods in excess of 30 days; and 
(5) any other transaction as a result of which an executive 
officer becomes obligated to a bank, directly or indirectly by any 
g/ Such resolutions may be particularly appropriate with respect to 
some officers of bonks with a large number of vice presidents. 

- 3 -
means whatsoever, by reason of an indorsement on an obligation or 
otherwise, to pay money or its equivalent* 
Such terms, however, do not include: 
(i) advances against accrued salary or other accrued com-
pensation, or for the purpose of providing for the payment of 
authorized travel or other expenses incurred or to be incurred on 
behalf of the bank; 
(ii) the acquisition by a bank of any check deposited in or 
delivered to the bank in the usual course of business unless it results 
in the carrying of a cash item for or the granting of an overdraft 
(other than an inadvertant overdraft in a nominal amount that is 
promptly repaid) to an executive officer; 
(iii) the acquisition of any note, draft, bill of exchange, 
or other evidence of indebtedness, through a merger or consolidation 
of banks or a similar transaction by which a bank acquires assets and 
\ 
assumes liabilities of another bank or similar organization, or through 
foreclosure on collateral or similar proceeding for the protection of 
the bank; or 
(iv) indebtedness arising by reason of general arrangements 
under which a bank (A) acquires charge or time credit accounts or 
(B) makes payments to or on behalf of participants in a bank credit 
card plan, check credit plan, or similar plan, except that this sub-
division (iv) shall not apply to indebtedness of an executive officer 
to his own bank to the extent that the aggregate amount thereof exceeds 

$1,000 or to any such indebtedness to his own bank that involves prior 
individual clearance or approval by the bank other than for the pur-
pose of determining whether his participation in the arrangement is 
authorized or whether any dollar limit under the arrangement has been 
or would be exceeded. 
§ 215,3 General prohibitions. 
(a) Extensions of credit to executive officers. Except as 
provided in § 215.4, no member bank shall extend credit to any of its 
own executive officers end no executive officer of a member bank shall 
borrow from ot otherwise become indebted to such bank. 
(b) Extensions of credit to partnerships. Except as provided 
in subparagraph (3) of § 215.4(b), no member bank shall extend credit 
to a partnership in which one or more executive officers of such bank 
are partners having either individually or together a majority interest 
in the partnership and no such partnership shall borrow from or other-
\ 
wise become indebted to such member bank. 
§ 215.4 Exceptions. 
(a) Protection of member bank against loss. This Part shall 
not apply to the indorsing or guaranteeing for the protection of a 
member bank of any loan or other asset previously acquired by such 
bank in good faith or to any indebtedness for the purpose of protecting 
\ 
a member bank against loss or of giving financial assistance to it. 
(b) Particular exceptions. Subject to the requirements of 
§ 215.5, the provisions of this Part shall not apply: 

(1) to any loan not exceeding $30,000 made by a member bank, 
with the specific prior approval of its board of directors, to any 
executive officer of such bank if, at the time the loan is made: 
(1) it is secured by a first lien on a dwelling which is owned, 
or after the making of the loan is to be owned, by the officer solely or 
jointly with his spouse and used by him as his residence; 
(ii) it is made for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, 
maintaining, or improving such residence; and 
(iii) no other such loan by the bank to the officer is out-
standing. 
(2) to e::tensions of credit made by a member bank to any 
executive officer of the bank, not exceeding the aggregate amount of 
$10,000 outstanding at any one time, to finance the education of the 
children of the executive officer. 
(3) to extensions of credit made by a member bank to any 
executive officer of the bank which are not otherwise specifically 
authorized under this paragraph (b), not exceeding the aggregate 
amount of $5,000 outstanding at any one time. For purposes of this 
subparagraph, the full amount of any extension of credit authorized 
hereunder that may be made to a partnership in which one or more of 
the member bank's executive officers are partners and have either 
individually or together a majority interest shall be considered to 
have been extended to each executive officer of the bank who is a member 
of the partnership. 

-6-
4 9 8 
§ 215.5 Requirements for extensions of credit. 
Every extension of credit to an executive officer 
(a) shall be promptly reported to the board of directors 
1/ 
of the bank; 
(b) shall be one that the bank shall be authorized 
to make to borrowers other than its officers; 
(c) shall be on terras not more favorable than those afforded 
other borrowers with similar credit standing who are not associated 
with the bank; 
(d) shall be preceded by submission of a detailed current 
financial statement of the borrowing officer; which shall include, but 
not be limited to, all data customarily associated with a personal 
financial statement including any obligations for which the officer 
may be personally liable; and 
(e) shall be made subject to the condition that it shall, 
at the option of the bank, become due and payable at any time when 
the officer is indebted to any other bank or banks on account of 
extensions of credit of any one of the three categories respectively 
described in subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3) of § 215.4(b), in an 
aggregate amount greater than the amount of credit of the same 
category that could be extended him by the bank of which he is an 
officer. 
3/ Prior approval by the board of directors of an extension of credit made 
under § 215.4(b) shall be regarded as compliance with this requirement. 

§ 215.6 Reports by executive officers of their indebtedness to 
other banks. 
Any executive officer of a member bank who becomes indebted 
to any other bank or banks on or after July 3, 1967, on account of ex-
tensions of credit of any one of ^he three categories respectively 
described in subparagraphs (1), (2), and (3) of § 215.4(b), in an 
aggregate amount greater than the amount of credit of the same category 
that could lawfully be extended to him by the bank of which he is an 
executive officer, shall within 10 days make a written report to the 
board of directors of the member bank, identifying the lender and stating 
the date and amount of each such extension of credit, the security 
therefor, if any, and the purposes for which the proceeds have been 
or are to be used. 
§ 215.7 Reports of member banks to Federal supervisors. 
Each member bank shall include with (but not as part of) 
each report of condition and copy thereof filed pursuant to section 7(a)(3) 
of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act a report of all loans under 
authority of this Part made by the bank since the date of its previous 
report of condition. 
2a. The purposes of this revision are (1) to conform 
Part 215 to amendments made to section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act 
(12 U.S.C. 375a) by the Act of July 3, 1967 (P.L. 90-44); and (2) to 
limit the definition of the term "executive officer" to those persons 
(other than non-officer directors) who participate or are authorized to 
participate in the major policy-making functions of a member bank. 

* 8 - 
J - 0 
As indicated in the notice of proposed rule making with reapeet to this 
revision (Federal Register of September 6, 1967; 32 F.R. 12758), the 
redefinition of "executive officer" is intended to exclude persona who 
may have official titles and may exercise a certain measure of discretion 
in the performance of their duties, including discretion in the making 
of loans, but who do not participate in the determination of major 
policies of the bank and whose decisions are circumscribed by policy 
standards fixed by the top management of the bank. 
b. This revision was adopted after consideration of all 
relevant material that was presented by interested persons. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., the 5th day of February, 1968. 
f 
j 
• ; , « - .. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
(signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

501 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. C. 20551 
Item No. 5 
2/5/68 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
February 5, 1968 
Mr. Richard A. Debs, Secretary, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Debs: 
This acknowledges your letters of January 19, 1968, 
informing us of the leave of absence, without pay, granted 
to Frederick W. Deming; and, the leave of absence, with pay, 
granted to David G. Holdsworth. 
It is noted that Mr. Deming will serve as a member of 
the staff of the Council of Economic Advisers at the invitation 
of the Chairman of the Council for a period of approximately one 
year beginning in mid-February 1968. The Board also notes that 
Mr. Holdsworth's leave of absence was permitted to enable him to 
serve on the staff of the Industry-Government Special Travel Task 
Force for approximately three and one half months. 
The Board appreciates being kept informed of matters 
of this nature. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
