Minutes for 
June 5, 1968 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

tC iJfCfJ 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, June 5, 1968. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Holland, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Deputy Secretary 
Mr. Forrestal, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Solomon, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Sherman, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hexter, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Sammons, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Egertson, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Miss Wolcott, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Messrs. Cloth, Noble, Plotkin, Porter, Sanders, 
and Via of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Eisenbeis and Lawrence of the Division 
of Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Emery and Grimwood of the Division of 
International Finance 
Messrs. Goodfellow, Lyon, Milusich, and Pounds tone 
of the Division of Examinations 
Discount rates. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of New York and San Francisco on May 29, by the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta on May 30, and by the Federal Reserve 

O-' t'>') 
6/5/68 
-2-
Bank of Boston on June 3, 1968, of the rates on discounts and advances 
in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that appropriate advice would be sent to those Banks. 
Approved items. The following items were approved unanimously 
after consideration of background information that had been made avail-
able to the Board. Copies are attached under the respective numbers 
indicated. 
Item No. 
Letter to Boston Overseas Financial Corpora- 
1 
tion, Boston, Massachusetts, granting consent, 
subject to specified conditions, to the acqui-
sition of shares of a proposed Brazilian holding 
company, and to the acquisition by that subsidiary 
of shares of a Brazilian finance company and a 
Brazilia n distribution company. 
Letter to First National City Overseas Invest- 
2 
ment Corporation, New York, New York, granting 
consent, subject to specified conditions, to 
the acquisition of shares of Financiacion de 
Ventas a Plazo, S.A., Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
Letter to Continental International Finance 
3 
Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, granting consent 
to the acquisition of additional shares of Lakshmi 
Machine Works Ltd., Coimbatore, India, and Mahindra 
Ugine Steel Company Ltd., Khopoli, India. 
Letter to Chemical International Banking Corpora- 
4 
tion, New York, New York, granting consent to the 
acquisition of additional shares of Frankfurter 
Bank, Frankfurt, Germany. 
Letter to The National City Bank of Cleveland, 
5 
Cleveland, Ohio, granting permission to organize 
a corporation under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act to be known as National City Cleve-
land International Corporation, New York, New 
York, and transmitting a preliminary permit. 

2024 
6/5/68 
-3-
Item No. 
Letter to American National Bank and Trust 
6 
Company of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
granting permission to organize a corpora-
tion under section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act to be known as Chicago American 
International Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
and transmitting a preliminary permit. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
7 
York responding to an inquiry by counsel for 
The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Associa-
tion), New York, New York, regarding whether 
the Banking Act of 1933 would prohibit the 
bank, while acting as trustee of a tax-
exempt employee trust, from acquiring a 
majority of the shares of an open-end 
investment company. 
In connection with Item No. 4, Governor Brimmer noted that 
Chemical had stated that it contemplated acquiring other banking insti-
tutions from time to time, with Frankfurter Bank invited to take small 
minority interests. As he had previously indicated, he did not favor 
a general policy of allowing U.S. banks or Edge corporations to main-
tain their proportionate interests in foreign banking institutions, 
specifically where such acquisition of additional shares would contra-
vene the policy established under the balance of payments program 
against equity investments in developed countries of continental 
Western Europe. The Board had decided to deal with such proposals 
°n an ad hoc basis. He would not object to the present proposal, on 
the ground that it amounted to the exercise of preemptive rights, but 
the letter should note the fact that Chemical had forecast a policy of 

202 5 
6/5/68 
-4-
acquiring new banking interests and indicate that approval of the 
present request should not be interpreted as implicit approval of 
future acquisitions. The letter to Chemical was revised to meet 
Governor Brimmer's point. 
It was understood that the substance of Item No. 7 would be 
published as an interpretation of section 20 of the Banking Act of 
1933. 
Report on competitive factors. A report to the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation on the competitive factors involved in the pro-
posed merger of The Worthington Savings Bank, Worthington, Ohio, into 
The Ohio State Bank, Columbus, Ohio, was approved unanimously for 
transmittal to the Corporation. The conclusion read as follows: 
Consummation of the proposed merger of The Ohio 
State Bank, Columbus, and The Worthington Savings Bank, 
Worthington, both subsidiaries of BancOhio Corporation, 
Columbus, Ohio, a registered bank holding company, would 
have no adverse competitive effects. 
Application of First Banc Group (Items 8 and 9). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the 
Board's approval on May 7, 1968, of the application of First Banc 
Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, to become a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
The city National Bank & Trust Company of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio, 
and The Farmers Savings and Trust Company, Mansfield, Ohio. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
°f the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 8 and 9. 

2026 
6/5/68 
-5-
Application of Merrill Trust Company (Items 10-12). There had 
been distributed drafts of an order and statement reflecting the Board's 
approval on May 29, 1968, of the application of The Merrill Trust Com-
pany, Bangor, Maine, to merge with Hammond Street Trust Company, Bangor, 
a newly-organized "interim" bank, whose application for membership in 
the Federal Reserve System was also approved. 
The issuance of the order and statement was authorized. Copies 
of the documents, as issued, are attached as Items 10 and 11. A copy 
of the letter sent to Hammond Street Trust Company approving its appli-
cation for membership in the Federal Reserve System is attached as 
Item No. 12. 
BankAmericard plan (Item No. 13). Commerce Trust Company, 
Kansas City, Missouri, proposed to offer the BankAmericard credit card 
Plan in Kansas and Missouri. The proposal had been the subject of 
correspondence between the bank and the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas 
City, and representatives of Commerce Trust Company had met with members 
of the Board's staff to discuss certain aspects of the plan. 
One part of the proposal contemplated that a subsidiary, Mid-
America Finance Corporation, would be organized and acquired by Commerce 
Bancshares, Inc., the parent corporation of Commerce Trust, to operate 
from the premises of Commerce Trust solely as a servicing organization. 
Commerce Trust requested that consideration of the status of the sub-
sidiary under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act be postponed 

6/5/68 
-6-
until such time as the pending application of Commerce Bancshares to 
become a bank holding company was acted upon by the Board. 
In addition, if the application to become a bank holding com-
pany was approved and consummated, one of the banks that was expected 
to participate in the credit card program would become an affiliate of 
Commerce Trust Company. Question was raised whether the limitations 
and requirements of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act regarding 
extensions of credit would apply. 
There had been distributed a draft of letter to the Kansas 
City Res erve Bank in which the view was expressed that the acquisition 
of promissory notes and other such paper by Commerce Trust Company from 
a bank affiliate on a nonrecourse basis would be exempt from the limi-
tations and requirements of section 23A. 
The draft letter would also suggest that the Reserve Bank, in 
replying to Commerce Trust, indicate that the Board would weigh the 
existence of Mid-America Finance Corporation along with all other 
relevant facts in considering the application of Commerce Bancshares, 
Inc., to become a bank holding company. 
Governor Mitchell suggested the addition of a paragraph to the 
draft letter to make clear that the proposal would not raise problems 
°f branch banking. 
The staff then responded to a number of questions from members 
°f the Board, principally in regard to the status of Mid-America Finance 
Corporation in relation to the application of Commerce Bancshares. There 

2028 
6/5/68 
-7-
was agreement with a suggestion by Governor Robertson that Commerce 
Trust Company be informed that the Board must consider all relevant 
facts in acting upon a holding company application; but that the ques-
tion whether ownership of shares of the finance corporation would fall 
within one of the exemptions from the general prohibition against 
retention of shares of a nonbanking company need not be resolved until 
after the holding company application had been acted upon by the Board. 
Unanimous approval then was given to a letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City in the form attached as Item No. 13. 
Multiple maturity time deposits (Item No. 14). Pursuant to 
previous understanding, there had been distributed a revised draft of 
statement clarifying the limitations of Regulation Q, Payment of Inter-
est on Deposits, on the power of a member bank to pay 5 per cent 
interest on funds deposited with it. 
Following discussion, the statement was approved unanimously. 
The text of the interpretation in the form of a press release subse-
quently issued is attached as Item No. 14. 
Members of the staff not concerned with the next item on the 
agenda then withdrew. 
Gold loan (Item No. 15). There had been distributed a memo-
randum from the Division of International Finance dated June 4, 1968, 
recommending approval of a 60-day renewal of gold loans to the Central 
Bank of the Philippines maturing June 6, June 11, and June 13, 1968, 

2QZ3 
6/5/68 
-8-
respectively. Such renewal had been authorized by the directors of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, subject to the approval of the Board 
of Governors, on the same terms and conditions as applied to the orig-
inal loans with the exception of changes mentioned in a telegram dated 
June 4, 1968. 
Renewal of the loans was approved unanimously. A copy of the 
telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York is attached as 
Item No. 15. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Kenyon, 
Solomon (Adviser), and Sammons then withdrew from the meeting. 
Possible gold loan. Mr. Solomon recalled that the Special 
Manager had placed before the Federal Open Market Committee last Tues-
day his thoughts about a gold loan to the Bank of England, but that the 
subject was not discussed by the Committee. The Committee did discuss 
the question of further use of the Federal Reserve swap line by the 
British and arrived at a fairly unanimous judgment on that issue. At 
the time a gold loan seemed to be a substitute. However, the Special 
Manager would now like the Board to give some preliminary consideration 
to the possibility of such a loan, with the thought that if the response 
was sympathetic he might raise the question with the directors of the 
New York Reserve Bank at their meeting tomorrow. It was understood 
from the Special Manager that the British had some $750 million of gold 
that was free of pledge, and Mr. Coombs believed the Bank of England 

2030 
6/5/68 
-9-
would be willing to sell some of that gold to meet commitments. How-
ever, the British Treasury might not share that view. 
Mr. Holland noted that the Special Manager apparently viewed 
the gold loan as a substitute for use of the swap line when he talked 
to the Open Market Committee on Tuesday. Now the gold loan was being 
talked of as a complement. The Special Manager had indicated yesterday 
that he felt the Bank of England might be interested, and he would like 
to have some sense as to whether the Board would be inclined to view 
such a loan reasonably sympathetically. 
In reply to a question, Mr. Solomon said that the Special 
Manager had mentioned $200 million as a possible figure. Mr. Solomon 
also discussed the effect of the making of a gold loan to the British 
in terms of U.S. and U.K. balance of payments statistics. He went on 
to say that he would be inclined to view a gold loan as a substitute 
for use of the swap arrangement. The question was whether the Federal 
Reserve wanted to have the swap drawings cleaned up or to let them run 
on longer than the normal period of 12 months. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that the effect of making 
a gold loan would be to allow the British to announce a clean-up of 
the swap drawings when that had occurred only because the gold loan 
had been used as a substitute. He would prefer to give the British a 
repurchase agreement if they sold gold to the U.S. Otherwise, he felt 
that the Federal Reserve would be a party to an arrangement that could 

2031 
6/5/68 
-10-
be criticized because it relieved the British from revealing their 
true position. 
Governor Brimmer said it was his recollection from discussions 
of System gold loan policy that the Federal Reserve had never insisted 
that another country liquidate its assets rather than obtain a gold 
loan. He saw no reason to deny the British an opportunity to borrow 
i 
on their gold if the British initiated such a request. He did not 
bel ieve that the Federal Reserve should initiate the matter or push 
it in conversations with the British. However, if the British were to 
come to the Federal Reserve with an application for a gold loan in the 
neighborhood of $200 million, on the same conditions as those on which 
gold loans were made to other countries, he would see no strong reason 
to resist the request. 
Mr. Sammons described why it would be difficult to keep a gold 
loan of substantial size secret as Federal Reserve and Treasury state-
ments were published, and Governor Brimmer commented that he would not 
propose to keep the matter a secret. He thought the British must 
realize that the loan would have to show up. Governor Mitchell 
observed that if the British realized that fact, they might not want 
to request the loan. 
Governor Daane expressed the view that if the Federal Reserve 
could assist the British in this manner to obtain a psychological 
benefit in connection with the announcement of their prospective 

£033 
6/5/68 
-11-
drawing from the International Monetary Fund, he would be inclined to 
view a gold loan sympathetically. However, he was not sure how strongly 
the British would be inclined to seek a gold loan. 
Governor Robertson then suggested that views of the Board not 
be communicated to Mr. Coombs until after the luncheon today at which 
Deputy Governor Parsons of the Bank of England was to be the guest of 
the Board members. There was general agreement with this suggestion. 
Mr. Solomon noted that it would also be desirable to check with 
the U.S. Treasury informally, and the Board requested Mr. Solomon to 
obtain the views of Treasury staff. 
Messrs. Solomon and Sammons then withdrew. 
Minimum scope of Reserve Bank audits. Unanimous approval was 
give n to the recommendation in a memorandum from Mr. Solomon (Examina-
tions) dated May 27, 1968, that the firm of Haskins & Sells be requested, 
working in cooperation with the Division of Examinations and the General 
Auditors of the Federal Reserve Banks, to develop a statement of minimum 
scope of Reserve Bank audits. An expenditure not exceeding $5,000 was 
authorized for this purpose, with the understanding that the Board's 
action constituted approval of any resulting overexpenditure in the 
Pertinent account of the budget of the Division of Examinations. 
Mr. Shepardson, Consultant to the Board, entered the room at 
this point. 

£033 
6/5/68 
-12-
Annex building. Mr. Shepardson reported that the National 
Capital Planning Commission would receive tomorrow an adverse recom-
mendation from a subgroup with regard to the proposed plan for the 
development of the park on the surface of the so-called north garage, 
the principal objection apparently being to the inclusion of the tennis 
court. Thus, there existed the possibility of an adverse ruling from 
the Planning Commission. The Board's agreement with the Interior 
Department to pay half the cost of development of the park was predi-
cated on the plan's being acceptable to the Board. Therefore, the 
question was whether the Board would want to accept a modification of 
the park plan as far as the relationship with the Interior Department 
was concerned or whether it would want to refrain from going forward 
with the agreement with the Department. 
Governor Sherrill recommended that the Board stand on the 
present agreement and indicate that unless the park plan was acceptable 
the Board would not contribute 50 per cent of the cost of development 
of the site. 
There was general agreement that the position recommended by 
Governor Sherrill would be appropriate. 
Truth in lending. Governor Robertson commented that with the 
truth-in-lending bill now enacted into law, it appeared to him that 
the Board's staff work in that area should be reorganized. After dis-
cussing the matter with Governor Sherrill and Mr. Shepardson, he was 

2031 
6/5/68 
-13-
prepared to propose that both the truth-in-lending function and the 
securities credit regulation function be transferred into the Division 
of Examinations, with an Assistant Director responsible for each func-
tion. At the same time, he would transfer to the Division of Bank 
Operations the responsibility for examining the Federal Reserve Banks 
and maintaining liaison with the audit function at the respective Banks. 
In this manner staff responsibilities relating to the supervision of 
the Federal Reserve Banks would be unified in one division. He had 
discussed the possibility informally with one Reserve Bank President, 
who had concluded that no difficulties would be created. He had also 
arranged to obtain the views of Mr. Larkin of Haskins & Sells. After 
considering the question, Mr. Larkin had concluded that on balance the 
rearrangement would provide more benefits than hazards. On the other 
hand, Mr. Solomon of the Division of Examinations had reservations, and 
Board members might want to discuss the matter with Mr. Solomon. 
Members of the Board indicated that they would like to have 
additional time to study the proposal, and it was understood that 
Governor Robertson would send them certain written material describing 
the elements of the plan. Governor Robertson noted that he had had in 
mind that the reorganization, if approved by the Board, would become 
effective at the beginning of the first pay period in July. 
Accordingly, it was understood that the proposal would be 
considered further by the Board within the next few days. 

6/5/68 
-14-
Foreign credit restraint program. Governor Robertson stated 
that he would request that responsibility for administration of the 
Federal Reserve foreign credit restraint program be transferred to 
Governor Brimmer and that he would present the request formally at the 
Board meeting tomorrow. Members of the Board present at today's meet-
ing indicated that they would have no objection. 
Internal management. Governor Robertson also stated that he 
would like to request that the responsibility for administration of 
the Board's internal affairs at Board level be transferred from him-
self to Governor Sherrill and that he would present the matter formally 
tomorrow. Members of the Board present at today's meeting indicated 
that they would have no objection. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: On May 31, 1968, 
the available members of the Board 
(Governors Robertson, Mitchell, and 
Sherrill) approved the release to the 
press on Monday, June 3, with subse-
quent publication in the Federal 
Reserve Bulletin, of the policy rec-
ord entry covering the meeting of the 
Federal Open Market Committee on 
March 5, 1968, in the form submitted 
with a memorandum from Mr. Broida 
dated May 29. (The entry had been 
approved by the Board on May 23 and 
no further suggestions for changes 
had been received.) 
On June 4, 1968, a letter was sent to 
First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of 
its intent to establish an additional 
branch in Colombia, to be located in 
Cali. 

6/5/68 
-15-
On June 4 a letter was also sent to The 
Chase Manhattan Bank (National Associa-
tion), New York, New York, acknowledging 
receipt of notice of its intent to estab-
lish an additional branch in Trinidad, to 
be located in San Fernando. 
The Civil Service Commission had now 
advised of its approval of a revision 
of the Board's regulation regarding 
employee responsibilities and conduct. 
Accordingly, pursuant to the understand-
ing when the proposed regulation was 
approved by the Board for transmittal 
to the Commission, the regulation was 
sent to the Federal Register for pub-
lication. A copy of the regulation is 
attached as Item No. 16. 
On May 31, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board memo-
randa recommending the following 
actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Laura Lewis as Stenographer, Legal Division, with basic annual 
salary at the rate of $5,161, effective the date of entrance upon 
duty. 
Joyce Barrett as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Administra-
tion, with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,161, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Donna M. Cope as Secretary, Division of Personnel Administration, 
with basic annual salary at the rate of $5,751, effective the date of 
entrance upon duty. 
Judy Anne Epperson as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Admin-
istration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,466, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 
Carol L. Nelson as Clerk-Typist, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,108, effective 
the date of entrance upon duty. 

2037 
6/5/68 
-16-
Salary increases, effective June 2, 1968 
Name and title 
Division 
Research and Statistics 
Gloria A. Chapuis, Statistical Clerk 
Ann R. Clary, Chief Librarian 
James L. Kichline, Economist 
Enid Miller, Economist 
Ida Pronio, Stenographer 
Mary M. Ray, Technical Editor (Economics) 
Evelyn T. Simms, Statistical Clerk 
Diane E. Waiters, Statistical Clerk 
International Finance 
Ralph C. Bryant, Assistant to the Director 
Rodney H. Mills, Jr., Economist 
Carl H. Stem, Economist 
Examinations 
Grace Anne Burnes, Secretary 
Francis D. Dargo, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Joseph B. Dunn, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Alex J. Harris, Jr., Assistant Review 
Examiner 
James F. Leyman, Assistant Federal 
Reserve Examiner 
Personnel Administration 
Jeanette E. Devlin, Personnel Assistant 
Administrative Services 
Edward S. Green, Cafeteria Laborer 
Laura A. Smith, Charwoman 
Eva Mae Vines, Cafeteria Helper 
Frances E. Willis, Charwoman 
Basic annual salary 
From 
To 
$ 5,161 
11,461 
11,911 
9,657 
4,466 
13,371 
4,466 
5,327 
15,307 
14,857 
12,607 
5,565 
9,399 
9,937 
10,945 
8,323 
7,777 
4,028 
4,028 
3,776 
4,406 
$ 5,327 
11,843 
13,371 
9,979 
4,995 
13,753 
4,615 
5,493 
17,425 
15,841 
13,507 
5,751 
9,979 
10,623 
11,267 
9,657 
8,309 
4,154 
4,154 
3,902 
4,532 

2038 
6/5/68 
-17-
Salary increases, effective June 2, 1968 (continued) 
Basic annual salary 
Name and title 
Division 
From 
To 
Data Processing 
Paul L. Bazemore, Senior Programmer 
, 
$11,267 
$11,843 
(change in title from Programmer) 
Harry L. Bowen, Jr., Systems Analyst 
15,841 
16,369 
James L. Ellis, Computer Operator 
5,751 
5,937 
Wingfield Roberts, Programmer 
8,323 
9,657 
Wilbert L. Stephens, Electronic Accounting 
5,211 
5,659 
Machine Operator ("Trainee" deleted from 
title) 
Transfer 
N. Lois Orr, Secretary in the Office of the Secretary, from the 
Secretarial Section to Administration and Minutes, with no change in 
basic annual salary at the rate of $6,547, effective June 3, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
John H. Rhinehart, Assistant Director, Division of Data Process-
ing, effective the close of business May 31, 1968. 
Termination of employment 
Betty L. Jackson, Secretary, Office of the Secretary, effective 
the close of business May 22, 1968. 
On June 3, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board the 
following items: 
Memorandum from the Division of Research and Statistics dated 
May 27, 1968, recommending the appointment of Professor Stanley 
Lebergott of Wesleyan University, Middletown, Connecticut, to the 
Consultant Committee on Prices and Price Measurement, such appoint-
ment to be on a temporary contractual basis with compensation at 
the rate of $95 per day and transportation expenses and per diem 
in accordance with the Board's travel regulations. 
Memoranda recommending the following actions relating to the 
Board's staff: 

6/5/68 
-18-
Transfer 
Joyce M. Hile, from the position of Secretary in the Division of 
Data Processing to the position of Secretary in the Office of the 
Secretary, with no change in basic annual salary at the rate of $6,547, 
effective June 3, 1968. 
Acceptance of resignation 
Roy J. Watkins, Assistant Federal Reserve Examiner, Division of 
Examinations, effective the close of business June 14, 1968. 
On June 4, 1968, Governor Robertson 
approved on behalf of the Board accep-
tance of the resignation of G. Joseph 
King, Economist in the Division of 
Research and Statistics, effective 
the close of business June 7, 1968. 
On May 30 and 31 and June 3, 4, and 5, 
1968, actions were taken on behalf of 
the Board under delegated authority as 
indicated by the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under 
the respective item numbers indi-
cated: 
On May 30, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
Item No. 
Letter to Mercantile National Bank at Dallas, 
17 
Dallas, Texas, granting an extension of time 
within which to file its annual report as a 
bank holding company. 
On May 31, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
18 
approving the appointment of Carroll Tanner and 
Christina Mary Tomczak as assistant examiners. 
Letter to Community Bank and Trust Company, 
19 
Paoli, Pennsylvania, approving the establish-
ment of a branch in Parkesburg. 

6/5/68 
-19-
On May 31, 1968 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to The Industrial Bank of Binghamton, 
20 
Binghamton, New York, granting an extension 
of time within which to accomplish membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
On June 3, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
21 
approving the appointment of Harold Boyd Betty, 
Jr., as assistant examiner. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago 
22 
approving the appointment of James F. Whitmer 
as examiner. 
On June 4, 1968 
By the Director of the Division of Bank Operations 
Letter to Marine National Bank of Jacksonville, 
23 
Jacksonville, Florida, granting its request for 
permission to maintain reduced reserves. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City 
Letter to The Bank of Atchison County, Rock 
24 
Port, Missouri, waiving the requirement of 
six months' notice of withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
2040 
Item No. 
Letter to Wells Fargo Bank, San Francisco, 
California, approving the establishment of a 
branch at 8121 Van Nuys Boulevard, Los Angeles. 
25 

2041 
6/5/68 
-20-
On June 5, 1968 
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
26 
approving the appointment of William M. Rossi, 
Henry E. Johannensen, and Robert J. Branch as 
assistant examiners. 
Letters to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corpora- 
27-28 
tion regarding the applications of Oklahoma State 
Bank, Buffalo, Oklahoma, and Citizens State Bank 
of Dalhart, Dalhart, Texas, for continuation of 
deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Secretary 

O
A 
l
O 
f J i j Q t J 
\v>' 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P d N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968. 
Bo ston Overseas Financial Corporation, 
67 Milk Street, 
Boston, Massachusetts. 02110 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter of 
April 23, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corpora-
tion to invest approximately $635,000 in a proposed Brazilian holding 
company ("BHC"), provided the investment is made within one year from 
the date of this letter. In this connection, the Board also approves 
the investment in BHC in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's 
capital and surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of BHC by Boston Overseas Financial Corporation ("BOFC") is 
granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in BHC if BHC at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if BHC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to BOFC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, your 
Corporation will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BHC as it may require 
from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by BHC be 
reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if BHC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

2043 
Boston Overseas 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(4) That BOFC shall not carry on its books the shares of 
BHC at a net amount in excess of the book capital ac-
counts of BHC, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
The Board also grants consent for your proposed wholly-owned 
subsidiary, BHC, to purchase and hold all of the shares of a Brazilian 
finance company ("Financiadora") and all of the shares of a Brazilian 
distribution company ("Distributor") which will place the acceptance 
paper generated by Financiadora, at a cost of approximately $625,000 
and $10,000, respectively, provided that at least approximately $160,000 
of the shares of Financiadora and all of the shares of Distributor are 
acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In this connec-
tion, the Board also approves the purchase and holding of shares of 
Financiadora by BHC in excess of the applicable limitations set forth 
in the provisions of Section 25(a)(12 US.C. 615(c)) of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
The Board's consents to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of (1) Financiadora and (2) Distributor by BHC are granted 
subject to the same conditions prescribed in the second paragraph of 
this letter, except for the substitution of BHC for BOFC, and of 
Financiadora in the first instance and Distributor in the second for BHC. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board sus-
pends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the 
second paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
on loans granted by BHC, Financiadora, and Distributor in Brazil in 
the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisitions, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association and By-Laws of 
BHC, Financiadora, and Distributor. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as 
they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of your 
Corporation, The First National Bank of Boston, and Bank of Boston 
International, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2044 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968. 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation, 
399 Park Avenue, 
New York, New York. 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 2, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for First National City Overseas Invest-
ment Corporation ("FNCOIC") to purchase and hold up to 100 per cent 
of the capital stock of Financiacion de Ventas a Plazo, S.A. ("FIVAP"), 
Buenos Aires, Argentina, at a cost of approximately $275,000, pro-
vided such shares are acquired within one year from the date of this 
letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of FIVAP by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock of FIVAP if FIVAP at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FIVAP establishes any branch 
or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Argentina, or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That FNCOIC shall not carry the shares acquired of 
FIVAP at a net amount in excess of the proportionate 
share of the book capital accounts of FIVAP, after 
giving effect to the elimination of all known losses; 
(3) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of FIVAP as it may require from time to time; 
and 

£20 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FIVAP 
be reported under Section 211.8(c) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if FIVAP were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association and By-Laws 
of FIVAP. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding that 
the investment now being approved will be made within the guidelines 
established under the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect 
as they apply to the foreign lending and investment activities of 
your Corporation, First National City Bank, International Banking 
Corporation, and First National City Bank (International), and that 
due consideration is being given to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2046 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
Item No. 3 
6/5/68 
OfjGOw-'-
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
?AL RtSV 
June 5, 1968 
Continental International 
Finance Corporation, •• 
231 South LaSalle Street, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of April 26, 1968, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to purchase and 
hold approximately 405 additional shares of Lakshmi Machine Works 
Ltd., Coimbatore, India, at a cost of approximately $6,000 and 
approximately 5,700 additional shares of Mahindra Ugine Steel 
Company Ltd., Khopoli, India, at a cost of approximately $8,000, 
provided such shares are acquired within one year from the date 
of this letter. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investments now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Continental Illinois National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago, and Continental Bank International, 
New York, and that due consideration is being given to the priori-
ties contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 

B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968. 
Chemical International Banking Corporation, 
20 Pine Street, 
New York, New York. 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of April 11, 1968, the Board of Governors grants consent for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold up to approximately 1,000 addi-
tional shares, par value DM1,000 of Frankfurter Bank, Frankfurt, 
Germany, at a cost of approximately $500,000, provided the shares 
are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. In 
this connection, the Board also approves the purchase and holding 
of shares of Frankfurter Bank in excess of 15 per cent of your 
Corporation's capital and surplus. 
In your request you indicated, among other things, your 
intention to acquire interests in other banking institutions from 
time to time. The Board's consent to your present request should 
not be interpreted as an expression of approval with respect to future 
acquisitions of interests in other banks which, of course, will 
require specific consent of the Board. 
The foregoing consent is given with the understanding 
that the investment now being approved will be made within the 
guidelines established under the foreign credit restraint effort 
now in effect as they apply to the foreign lending and investment 
activities of your Corporation, Chemical International Finance, Ltd., 
and Chemical Bank New York Trust Company and will not materially 
affect your ability to meet requests for priority credits while 
complying with the guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
r 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2048 
^IlEsf;.* 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 5 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968. 
Mr. John S. Fangboner, 
Chairman of the Board, 
The National City Bank of Cleveland, 
Cleveland, Ohio. 44101 
Dear Mr. Fangboner: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and Organization Certificate dated April 3, 1968, of National 
City Cleveland International Corporation, New York, New York, and 
there is enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation 
to exercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organi-
zation. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, the 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the President, Treasurer, 
or Secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must 
certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; 
(2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned 
by citizens of the United States, by corporations the controlling 
interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered 
under the laws of the United States or of a State of the United States, 
or by firms or companies the controlling interest in which is owned 
by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of the authorized 
capital stock specified in the Articles of Association at least 25 
per cent has been paid in in cash and that each shareholder has in-
dividually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his stock sub-
scription. Thereafter the Treasurer or Secretary shall certify to 
the payment of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, 
in accordance with law. 
Your attention is called to the fact that National City 
CI eveland International Corporation will have no separate base under 
the foreign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or invest-
ments will need to be made under the ceiling of The National City 

2049 
Mr. John S. Fangboner 
-2-
Bank of Cleveland. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given 
with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the guidelines established under 
the foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to 
the foreign lending and investment activities of The National City 
Bank of Cleveland and that due consideration will be given to the 
priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
•i 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2050 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
June 5, 1968. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested 
in it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, 
has this day approved the Articles of Association dated 
April 3, 1968, and Organization Certificate dated April 3, 1968, 
of NATIONAL CITY CLEVELAND INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly filed 
with said Board of Governors, and that NATIONAL CITY CLEVELAND 
INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of 
the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
of a final permit generally to commence business in accordance 
with the provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and 
regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

'oOf GOV; •. 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R B 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968. 
Mr. Robert E. Straus, 
Chairman of the Board, 
American National Bank and Trust 
Company of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 60690 
Dear Mr. Straus: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Asso-
ciation and Organization Certificate dated May 3, 1968, of Chicago 
American International Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, and there is 
enclosed a Preliminary Permit authorizing that Corporation to exer-
cise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
the Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
by Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
will issue its final permit to commence business, the President, 
Treasurer, or Secretary, together with at least three of the direc-
tors, must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the United 
States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock is held 
and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations the con-
trolling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States, 
chartered under the laws of the United States or of a State of the 
United States, or by firms or companies the controlling interest 
in which is owned by citizens of the United States; and (3) that of 
the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of Associa-
tion at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that each 
shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of 
his stock subscription. Thereafter, the Treasurer or Secretary shall 
certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when each 
is paid in, in accordance with law. 

205 
Mr. Robert E. Straus 
-2-
Your attention is called to the fact that Chicago American 
International Corporation will have no separate base under the for-
eign credit restraint effort and any foreign loans or investments 
will need to be made under the ceiling of American National Bank and 
Trust Company of Chicago. Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given 
with the understanding that any foreign loans and investments of the 
Corporation will be made within the guidelines established under the 
foreign credit restraint effort now in effect as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of American National Bank 
and Trust Company of Chicago and that due consideration will be given 
to the priorities contained therein. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
' A • J 
A. i 
, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2053 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
June 5, 1968. 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in 
it by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, 
has this day approved the Articles of Association dated May 3, 
1968, and Organization Certificate dated May 3, 1968, of 
CHICAGO AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION duly filed with said 
Board of Governors, and that CHICAGO AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL 
CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the powers con-
ferred upon.it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final 
permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations 
of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
B y 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2051 
OfGOV^' 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 7 
6/5/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968 
Mr. James H. Oltman, Manager, 
Bank Examinations Department, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 10045 
Dear Mr. Oltman: 
Reference is made to the request of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & 
McCloy, counsel to The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Association), for 
the Board's views as to whether section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 
would prohibit the Bank, while acting as trustee of a tax exempt employee 
benefit trust or trusts, from, under the following circumstances, acquir-
ing a majority of the shares of an open-end investment company ("Fund") 
registered under the Investment Company Act of 1940, or mere than 50 per 
cent of the number of Fund's shares voted at the preceding election of 
directors of the Fund. 
From the information submitted, it appears that the Bank has 
acted as trustee, since December 1963, pursuant to a trust agreement with 
a county medical society to administer its group retirement program, under 
which individual members of the society could participate in accordance 
with the provisions of the Self-Employed Individuals Tax Retirement Act 
of 1962 (commonly referred to as "H.R. 10"). 
Under the trust agreement as presently constituted, each employer, 
who is a participating member of the medical society, directs the Bank to 
invest his contributions to the retirement plan in such proportions as he 
may elect in insurance or annuity contracts or in a diversified portfolio 
of securities and other property. The diversified portfolio held by the 
Bank is invested and administered by the Bank solely at the direction of 
a committee of the medical society. 
It has now been proposed that the trust agreement be amended 
to provide that all investments constituting the trust fund, apart from 
insurance and annuity contracts, will be made exclusively in shares of 
a single open-end investment company to be named in the trust agreement 

Mr. James H. Oltman 
- 2 -
2055 
and that the assets constituting the diversified portfolio now held by 
the Bank, as trustee, will be exchanged for the Fund!s shares. The Bank 
will, in addition to holding the shares of the Fund, allocate income and 
dividends to the accounts of the various participants in the retirement 
program, invest and reinvest income and dividends, and perform other 
ministerial functions. 
In addition, it is proposed to amend the trust agreement so 
that voting of the shares held by the Bank, as trustee, will be controlled 
exclusively by the participants. Under the proposed amendment, the Bank 
will sign all proxies prior to mailing them to participants, "it being 
intended that the Participant[s] shall vote the proxies notwithstanding 
the fact that the Trustee is the owner of the shares . . .". 
A number of other medical associations have adopted plans, 
similar to that of the aforesaid county medical society, as to which the 
Bank also acts as trustee. The Bank believes that amendments are now 
under consideration which will also require investment of the assets of 
these plans exclusively in the Fund's shares. Accordingly, the Bank may 
eventually own the Fund's shares in several separate trust accounts and 
in an aggregate amount equal to a majority of the Fund's shares. 
Section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933 provides in relevant part 
that 
"no member bank shall be affiliated in any manner described in 
section 2(b) hereof with any corporation . . . engaged princi-
pally in the issue, flotation, underwriting, public sale, or 
distribution at wholesale or retail or through syndicate partic-
ipation of stocks . . . or other securities: . . .". 
Section 2(b) defines the term "affiliate" to include "any 
corporation, business trust, association or other similar organization -
(1) Of which a member bank, directly or indirectly, owns 
or controls either a majority of the voting shares or more than 
50 per centum of the number of shares voted for the election of 
its directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar 
functions at the preceding election, or controls in any manner 
the election of a majority of its directors, trustees, or other 
persons exercising similar functions; . . .". 
The Board has previously taken the position, in an interpretation 
involving the term "affiliate" under the Banking Act of 1933, that it would 
not require a member bank to obtain and publish a report of a corporation 
the majority of the stock of which is held by the member bank as executor 

2056 
Mr. James H. Oltman 
-3-
or trustee, provided that the member bank holds such stock subject to 
control by a court or by a beneficiary or other principal and that the 
member bank may not lawfully exercise control of such stock independently 
of any order or direction of a court, beneficiary or other principal. 
1 9 3 3 Federal Reserve Bulletin 651. The rationale of that interpretation-
which was reaffirmed by the Board in 1957-- would appear to be equally 
applicable to the facts in the present case. In the circumstances, and 
on the basis of the Board's understanding that the Bank will not vote 
any of Fund's shares or control in any manner the election of any of its 
directors, trustees, or other persons exercising similar functions, the 
Board has concluded that the situation in question would not fall within 
the purpose or coverage of section 20 of the Banking Act of 1933, and, 
therefore, would not involve a violation of the statute. 
It will be appreciated if you will transmit the enclosed copy 
of this letter to counsel for the Bank. 
Very truly yours, 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure 

2057 
Item No. 8 
6/5/68 
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D« C. 
In the Matter of the Application of 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., 
Columbus, Ohio, 
for approval of action to become a bank 
holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The City National Bank & Trust 
Company of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio, and 
The Farmers Savings and Trust Company, 
Mansfield, Ohio. 
ORDER APPROVING APPLICATION UNDER 
BANK HOLDING COMPANY ACT 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to 
section 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(1)), and section 222.3(a) of Federal Reserve Regulation Y 
(12 CFR 222.3(a)), an application by First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
Columbus, Ohio, for the Board's prior approval of action whereby 
Applicant would become a bank holding company through the acquisition 
of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The City National Bank 
& Trust Company of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio, and The Farmers Savings 
and Trust Company, Mansfield, Ohio. 
As required by section 3(b) of the Act, the Board gave 
written notice of receipt of the application to the Comptroller of the 

2058 
Currency and to the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio, 
and requested their views and recommendations. The Comptroller 
recommended approval; the Superintendent stated that he had no 
objection to approval of the application. 
Notice of 
receipt of the application was published in the 
Federal Register on February 8, 1968 (33 Federal Register 2722), 
providing 
an opportunity for interested persons to submit comments and 
views with respect to the proposed transaction. A copy of the applica-
tion was forwarded to the United States Department of Justice for its 
consideration. Time for filing comments and views has expired and 
all those received have been considered by the Board. 
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set forth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application be and hereby is 
approved, provided that the action so approved shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the date of the Order, unless such 
period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of June, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman Martin and Governors 
Daane, Maisel, Brimmer, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Robertson and Mitchell. 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
(SEAL) 

2059 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC., COLUMBUS, OHIO, 
TO BECOME A BANK HOLDING COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio ("Applicant"), 
has filed with the Board, pursuant to section 3(a)(1) of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, an application for approval of action to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 80 per cent 
or more of the voting shares of The City National Bank & Trust Company 
of Columbus, Columbus, Ohio ("City Bank"), and The Farmers Savings 
and Trust Company, Mansfield, Ohio ("Farmers Bank"). 
City Bank (deposits $298 million)^ is located 70 miles from 
Farmers Bank (deposits $38 million) with two counties intervening. The 
offices of the two banks nearest each other are 51 miles apart. A 
predecessor of City Bank began operations in 1868; the bank presently 
operates 16 offices. Farmers Bank, organized in 1906, presently 
operates six offices. 
, 
-i > 
. 
J/ Data with respect to banks are as of June 30, 1967, unless otherwise 
noted. 
Item No. 9 
6/5/68 

-•2-
2 0 6 0 
Views and recommendations of supervisory authorityc - As 
required by section 3(b) of the Act, inasmuch as both a State and a 
nationally chartered bank are involved, notice of receipt of the 
application was given to, and views and recommendations requested of, 
the Superintendent of Banks for the State of Ohio and the Comptroller 
of the Currency. The State Superintelident replied that he had ho 
objection tp the proposal. The Comptroller recommended approval of 
the application, 
Statutory c o n s ide.rat.ions, - Section 3(c) of the Act provides 
that the Board shall not approve an acquisition that would result in 
a monopoly or would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy 
to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in 
any part of the United States, Nor may the Board approve a proposed 
acquisition, the effect of which, in any section of the country, may 
be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, 
or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless 
the Board finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed trans-
action are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable 
effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of 
the community to be served. In each case the Board is required to take 
into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the bank holding company and the banks concerned, and the 
convenience and needs of the community to be served. 
Competitive effect of proposed transaction, r The 13 largest 
banking organizations in Oliio, of which three are bank holding companies, 
control 39 banks with aggregate deposits of $9 billion, representing 
52,8 per cent of the deposits held by the 535 insured commercial banks 

2061 
in the State. Applicant would control approximately 2 per cant of 
such deposits, would rank thirteenth among the large banking organiza-
tions, and would be the smallest bank holding company in Ohio. It 
does not appear that consummation of the proposal would significantly 
affect State-wide concentration. 
In the Columbus Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
tbelaw&re, Franklin, and Pickaway Counties) the three largest banks, 
of which City Bank is third, hold 87.5 per cent of total deposits. The 
two largest banking organizations are bank holding companies and together 
they account for 73*4 per cent of such deposits—five subsidiaries of 
BancOhio Corporation together hold 47.1 per cent, and one subsidiary 
of Htintington Bancshares Incorporated holds 26.3 per cent. City Bank 
holds 20.7 per cent of the deposits in the Standard Metropolitan 
Statistical "Area. Since Farmers Bank is located outside of the latter 
Area, no reduction; in banking alternatives or increase in Area banking 
concentration would result from consummation of Applicant's proposal. 
2/ 
< The primary service area of City Bank-" is Franklin County, 
3/ 
and the primary service area of Farmers Bank"" is Richland County. 
Franklin County has a population of approximately 850,000 and has had 
an increase in population of 61 per cent since 1950. The county seat, 
Columbus,, is also the State capital* Richland County is located about 
2/ The area from which City Bank derives approximately 94 per cent of 
its deposits of individuals, partnerships and corporations. 
j 
3/ The area from which Farmers Bank1 derives approximately 99 per cent 
of its^deposits of individuals, partnerships and corporations. 

-4-
midway between Colurabus and Cleveland. From 1950 to 1967 the 
population of the County increased from approximately 91,000 to 
approximately 133,000, an increase of 46 per cent., 
The nearrest offices of the two proposed subsidiary banks 
are 51 miles apart, and neither bank derives significant business from 
the county in which the other is located. City Bank competes with 
three subsidiaries of BancOhio Corporation (aggregate deposits of $647 
million), a subsidiary of Huntington Bancshares (deposits of $379 million), 
and four other banks (deposit sizes ranging from $5 to $13 million). 
Farmers Bank is the smallest bank in Mansfield and has direct competition 
from First National Bank of Mansfield, with deposits of $103 million, and 
Richland Trust Company, with deposits of $57 million. Four other banks 
are located in Richland County, 12 to 20 miles from Mansfield, and range 
in deposit size from $2.6 to $13 million. 
While concentration of deposits in each of the primary service 
areas is relatively high, Applicant's proposal would not .effect an in-
crease in concentration or a reduction in banking alternatives in 
either area. On the record before the Board, it is concluded that the 
proposed transaction will not result in a monopoly nor be in furtherance 
of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or attempt to monopolize 
the business of banking in any relevant area., 
Considering next the probable effect of consummation of 
Applicant's proposal on existing or potential,competition, the Board , 
finds that these considerations present no bar to approval of the 
application. In view of the distance between the proposed subsidiary 

Zii<63 
banks, the lack of any significant overlap of their service areas, and 
the existence of several intervening banks, it does not appear that 
significant existing competition would be eliminated. These same factors, 
coupled with a State prohibition against branching outside the home office 
county, also make it unlikely that potential competition would be affected. 
Finally, while it appears likely that the affiliation of the two banks 
would enhance their ability fco compete against the larger institutions in 
their respective areas, it does not appear that the viability or competi-
tive effectiveness of any other bank in either area would be adversely 
affected. Consummation of the proposal would not substantially lessen 
competition, tend to create a monopoly, or restrain trade in any section 
of the country. 
Financial and managerial resources and future prospects. -
Applicant is a newly-formed corporation and has no financial or operating 
history; its financial condition, managerial resources, and prospects 
would be entirely dependent upon those of the subsidiary banks. 
City Bank is adequately capitalized and appears to be com-
petently managed. Its growth and earnings records are excellent, and its 
prospects appear good. 
The general financial condition of Farmers Bank is good. Its 
net earnings, however, have been somewhat below average for banks of 
its size, and although the prospects of Farmers Bank appear reasonably 
favorable regardless of whether Applicant 's proposal i*s> consummated, they 
should be somewhat improved as a result of economies which affiliation 
with Applicant would permit. 

m
m 
re-
considerations relating to the banking factors are found to 
be consistent with approval of the application. 
Convenience .and needs of the communities involved. - The bank-
ing needs of the individuals and businesses located in the areas served 
by City Bank and Farmers Bank apparently are being adequately served by 
the substantial number of commercial banks competing in the areas. 
'Formation of the holding company will have little effect on the nature 
or scope of services rendered by City Bank, which, together with other 
local banks, is serving the convenience and needs of Columbus and 
Franklin County. The affiliation of City Bank and Farmers Bank through 
i 
the holding company should, however, enhance the services and efficiency 
of the latter bank. Increased consumer lending services, including 
a revolving credit plan and a credit card system, and expansion of 
agricultural, industrial and education loans, improved administration 
of trust accounts, investment research and portfolio management, and 
the availability of increased funds for mortgage lending and construc-
tion loans are among the benefits to Farmers Bank's customers foreseen 
by Applicant in the event of consummation of its proposal. Considera-
tions relating to this factor favor approval of the application. 
Summary and conclusion. - On the basis of all the relevant 
facts contained in the record, and in light of the factors set forth in 
section 3(c) of the Act, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
transaction would be in the public Interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
June 
5, 1968. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 
Item No. 10 
6/5/68 
BEFORE THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
In the Hatter of the Application of 
1 
THE MERRILL TRUST COMPANY 
1 
for approval of merger with 
1 
Hammond Street Trust Company 
1 
- - - - - - - 
J 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
— 
ORDER APPROVING MERGER OF BANKS 
There has come before the Board of Governors, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), an application by The Merrill Trust 
Company, Bangor, Maine, a State member bank of the Federal Reserve System, 
for the Board's prior approval of the merger of that bank and Hammond 
Street Trust Company, Bangor, Maine, under the charter and title of The 
Merrill Trust Company, Notice of the proposed merger, in form approved 
by the Board, has been published pursuant to said Act. 
Upon consideration of all relevant material in the light of 
the factors set forth in said Act, including reports furnished by the 
Comptroller of the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
and the Attorney General on the competitive factors involved in the 
proposed merger, 

- 2 -
IT IS HEREBY ORDERED, for the reasons set foYth in the 
Board's Statement of this date, that said application fre and hereby is 
approved, provided that said nerger shall hot be consummated (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the date of this Order or (b) late* 
than three months after the date of this Order. 
Dated at Washington, D, C., this 5th day of June, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
Voting for this action: Chairman llartin and Governors 
Robertson, Mitchell, Daane, and Sherrill. 
Absent and not voting: Governors Ilaisel and Brimmer. 
(signed) 
Robert P. Forrestal' 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, 
(SEAL) 
P 

m
w 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
APPLICATION BY THE MERRILL TRUST COMPANY 
FOR APPROVAL OF MERGER WITH 
HAMMOND STREET TRUST COMPANY 
STATEMENT 
s. 
The Merrill Trust Company, Bangor, Maine ("Merrill Trust"), 
1/ 
with total deposits of $72 million" , has applied, pursuant to the 
Bank Merger Act (12 U.S.C. 1828(c)), for the Board's prior approval of 
the merger of that bank with Hammond Street Trust Company, Bangor, 
Maine ("Hammond Trust"), which is a newly organized bank, not in 
operation* The banks would merge under the charter and name of Merrill 
Trust, which is a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
The proposed merger is one step in a plan of corporate 
reorganization whereby Merrill Bankshares Company, Bangor, Maine 
("Bankshares"), a newly organized Maine corporation, would become a 
one-bank bank holding company, owning all of the stock of Merrill Trust, 
All of the stock of Bankshares would be owned by present stockholders of 
Merrill Trust. Bankshares would subscribe to and own all of the stock 
of Hammond Trust, which would conduct no banking business.; following . 
the merger of Hammond Trust into Merrill Trust, stock of Bankshares .would 
be exchanged for the stock of Merrill Trust. 
1/ As of December 31, 1967. 
Item No. 11 
6/5/68 

-2-
2 0 6 8 
The major purpose for the use of a merger transaction in 
the plan to make Merrill Trust a subsidiary of Banlcshares is to assure 
that Bankshares will be able to acquire all of the outstanding stock 
of Merrill Trust. The reorganization is part of a plan whereby 
Banlcshares will eventually apply to the Board for approval to acquire 
control of an additional bank, or banks, and to become a registered 
bank holding company, pursuant to the Bank Holding Company Act, 
Statutory considerations. - The merger of Merrill Trust and 
Hammond Trust, the latter being a bank with no operating history, 
formed solely to facilitate the corporate reorganization plan described 
above, would have no effect on competition, no effect on the banking 
convenience and needs of the Bangor community, and would not alter the 
financial and managerial resources and prospects of Merrill Trust. 
Accordingly, the Board concludes that the application 
should be approved. 
June 5, 1968. 

20 69 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
item No. 12 
O F T H E 
6 / 5 / 6 8 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 5, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Hammond Street Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine. 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application made on behalf of Hammond Street Trust Company, Bangor, 
Maine, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
(1) Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the general character of its business or in the scope of 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
(2) The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall be 
adequate in relation to the character and condition of 
its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate powers. 
(3) That such bank shall merge with The Merrill Trust Company, 
Bangor, Maine, on the day it opens for business. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regula- -
tion H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the 
Federal Reserve System, with special reference to Section 208.7 thereof. 
A copy of the Regulation is enclosed. 
M
l 
r e s ? 

To: Board of Directors 
- 2 -
2070 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
Enclosure. 

2071 
B D A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 13 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1968. 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City, 
Federal Reserve Station, 
Kansas City, Missouri. 64198 
Dear Mr. Swords: 
This responds to your letters of March 26 and April 24, 
1968, regarding the proposal of Commerce Trust Company, Kansas City, 
Missouri, to offer the BankAmericard credit card plan in Kansas and 
Missouri. The plan enables card holders to purchase goods and 
services from participating merchants and to obtain cash advances 
from participating banks. On April 11, 1968, representatives of 
Commerce Trust met with members of the Board's staff to discuss the 
proposal, and a memorandum with respect to that meeting has been 
sent to you. Thereafter, Commerce Trust revised its proposal as 
set forth in its letter of April 19, which was enclosed with your 
letter of April 24. You ask (1) whether the Board concurs in your 
opinion that Commerce Trust's proposal will not violate the provi-
sions of section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C. 371c), 
and (2) whether any other aspects of this proposal should be 
mentioned in your reply to Commerce Trust. 
It is understood that the credit card plan, as revised, 
provides for the organization and acquisition of Mid-America Finance 
Corporation ("MAFC") by Commerce Bancshares, Inc., the parent corpo-
ration of Commerce Trust. MAFC would operate solely as a servicing 
organization. It would enlist the participation of various banks in 
Kansas and Missouri and assist their solicitation of merchants in 
areas where such participating banks are located. Representatives 
of MAFC would visit the participating banks regularly to discuss 
problems; to furnish sales promotion material, forms, and supplies; 
to assist participating banks in training their personnel and 
personnel of the participating merchants. MAFC will own the credit 
card imprinters furnished the participating banks and merchants. 
Commerce Trust will conduct all other functions such as the selection 
of credit card recipients, the billing and collection functions, and 
the operation of the BankAmericard authorization center. As described 

fJi! 
s /v 
Mr. Maurice J. Swords 
-2-
by Commerce Trust, the BankAmericard authorization center would 
have the responsibility of approving cash advances under the plan, 
and of determining whether Commerce Trust will purchase from par-
ticipating banks each note evidencing a cash advance by such banks 
to card holders. It is understood that MAFC and the BankAmericard 
Authorization Center are to operate from the premises of Commerce 
Trust. 
The receivables generated by the use of the credit card 
to purchase goods and services would be discounted by merchants 
with participating banks and sold by the banks to Commerce Trust. 
The participating banks would receive credit for the amounts they 
credited to the merchants and, periodically, Commerce Trust would 
remit to each participating bank its proportionate share of the 
aggregate discounts for the period. 
Cash advances would be available to card holders at 
participating banks. The note evidencing the advance could be 
retained by the participating bank for its own portfolio or, if 
approved by Commerce Trust's BankAmericard authorization center, 
could be sold without recourse to Commerce Trust. Participating 
banks that sell such notes to Commerce Trust would receive credit 
for the face amount of the advance plus one-half of an "add-on" 
closing fee. MAFC will not be a financial participant in the 
credit card operation. 
There is presently pending before the Board an application 
of Commerce Bancshares, Inc., to become a registered bank holding 
company. Should such application be approved and consummated, one 
of the banks that is expected to participate in the credit card pro-
gram would become an affiliate of Commerce Trust. The question 
therefore arises whether the limitations and requirements of sec-
tion 23A of the Federal Reserve Act regarding extensions of credit 
would apply to the operation of the above plan between Commerce 
Trust and such affiliate. 
Section 23A provides that the term extension of credit 
shall be deemed to include "the discount of promissory notes, bills 
of exchange, conditional sales contracts, or similar paper, whether 
with or without recourse, except that the acquisition of such paper 
by a member bank from another bank, without recourse, shall not be 
deemed to be a 'discount1 . . . ." Consequently, it is the opinion 
of the Board that the acquisition of promissory notes and other such 
paper by Commerce Trust from a bank affiliate, on a nonrecourse basis, 
would be exempt from the limitations and requirements of section 23A. 

Mr. Maurice J. Swords 
-3-
The proposal appears to raise no problem of branch 
banking. 
^ 
At the above-mentioned conference with members of the 
Board s staff, representatives of Commerce Trust requested that 
consideration of the status of MAFC, a nonbanking corporation, 
under section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act be postponed until 
such time as Commerce Bancshares 1 application to become a bank hold 
m g company has been approved by the Board. It is suggested that 
your reply to Commerce Trust indicate that the Board must consider 
all relevant facts in acting upon an application to become a bank 
holding company. However, the question whether Commerce Bancshares 
ownership of the shares of MAFC falls within one of the exemptions 
from the general prohibition against the retention of shares of a 
nonbanking company would not have to be resolved until after the 
application to become a bank holding company has been acted upon by 
the Board. 
7 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

•GOVt 
p r e s s 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
r e l e a s e 
Item No. 14 
6/5/68 
For immediate release. 
June 5, 1968. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, in 
an interpretation of its Regulation Q, said today that a member bank 
may pay interest on a multiple maturity time deposit at the maximum 
allowable rate — presently 5 per cent--only if the deposit is payable 
at intervals of at least 90 days. 
The interpretation was issued for clarification purposes 
following receipt of inquiries on the conditions under which banks 
may pay the maximum 5 per cent rate on time deposits having more than 
one maturity date. 
The text of the interpretation is attached. 

f j 075 
57, Multiple Maturity Time Deposits 
From time to time the Board of Governors receives inquiries 
relating to the payment of interest of 5 per cent per annum on "multiple 
maturity time deposits" as defined in § 217.1(g) of Regulation Q. In 
view of the variety of deposit contracts that hcve cone Intc use . 
in recent years, the Board considers it advisable tc clarify, for banks 
and their depositors, certain limitations on the authority of a mcr.;bei? bank 
to pay 5 per cent interest on funds deposited with it. The underlying 
principle is that a member bank may pay interest on a multiple maturity 
time deposit at the rate of 5 per cent only If the deposit Is payable at 
intervals of at least 90 days. 
90-day certificate of deposit. One major category of multiple 
maturity time deposits is certificates of deposit that (1) mature on a 
series of specified dates or (2) are automatically renewed at maturity 
without any action by the depositor. Certificates that mature at spec-
ified dates that are 90 days apart and certificates that mature 90 days 
after the date of Issuance and are automatically renewable for succes-
sive 90-day periods until the depositor withdraws his funds constitute 
multiple maturity time deposits in certificate form with the shortest 
intervals between payment dates that are permissible if interest thereon 
is to be paid at a rate of 5 per cent. 

2076 
-2-
90-day notice account. Another major category of multiple 
maturity time deposits is deposits that are payable only after written . not ice 
of withdrawal. Such deposits may be in the form of a passbook or other-
wise. Funds may be added to the account either at specified times or 
whenever the depositor wishes, depending on the terms of the contract. 
A member bank may pay interest at the rate of 5 per cent on 
funds in such an account, on two conditions. The first is that funds must 
not be withdrawable within 90 days of the date they are deposited. The 
second is that funds must not be withdrawable less than 90 days after 
the date of written notice of intention to withdraw. In other words, a 
member bank may pay 5 per cent only on deposits that are payable solely 
at intervals of at least 90 days. 
If a depositor gives 90-days' notice of intention to withdraw 
and then decides that he will not need the funds at the specified date, 
he may cancel his notice, either explicitly, or impliedly by a new 
90-day notice. He may not, however, retain his right to withdraw at the 
expiration of the first notice while giving a simultaneous or subsequent 
notice, unless the latter expires at a date at least 90 days after the 
expiration of the first. 
90-day notice account coupled with provision for automatic 
renewal. Recently, a few banks have offered a 5 per cent multiple matu-
rity time deposit contract that authorizes withdrawal by the depositor 
on more than one basis. For example, the contract may provide that funds 

received on or before January 1 may be withdrawn March 31 and, with 
respect to funds not withdrawn on that date, the deposit will be auto-
matically renewed until June 30, and so forth. The contract also 
provides that funds may be withdrawn on 90 days' notice in writing. In 
such event, to be consistent with the principle that the depositor may 
not have access to a 5 per cent multiple maturity deposit at intervals 
of less than 90 days, such a contract should inform the depositor that, 
when notice is given with respect to all or a portion of the funds on 
deposit, such notice automatically cancels any other provision for with-
drawal that is inconsistent with said principle. 
Consequently, if the depositor gives notice on March 1 of 
his intention to withdraw $1000 from his account on June 1, the contract 
should make clear that this automatically cancels his right to withdraw 
such amount on March 31, since such amount would otherwise be payable 
at intervals of less than 90 days. Also, his right under the specified 
maturity (or automatic-renewal maturity) provision to withdraw such 
amount on June 30 should be suspended, for the same reason. The latter 
right might be reinstated by the depositor revoking before April 1 his 
notice of intention to withdraw, since that would be at least 90 days 
before the specified June 30 maturity. However, the right to withdraw 
°n March 31 could not be reinstated. If it could, the depositor would 
in a position to acquire access to the amount involved at intervals 
of less than 90 days. 

:078 
-4-
As In a "straight" 90-day notice account, the depositor may 
supersede his notice of intention to withdraw by a subsequent 90-day 
notice. Again, such notice would have the effect of canceling any other 
right to withdraw that is inconsistent with the 90-day interval principle. 
Withdrawal "grace period". There is one exception to the rule 
that a member bank may not pay 5 per cent interest on multiple maturity 
deposits that are payable at intervals of less than 90 days, A bank may 
permit a depositor to withdraw his funds within ten days after a specified 
maturity, even if there is a provision for automatic renewal for 90 days 
if not withdrawn at said maturity. If he does so, no interest may be 
paid for the period from the maturity date to the date of withdrawal, for 
during that time the deposit is a "demand deposit", on which payment of 
interest is prohibited by law. If he does not so withdraw, the deposit 
remains a time deposit, with a term running from the maturity date until 
1/ 
a subsequent specified date or for a specified number of days, 
"Emergency" withdrawal. In accordance with section 217.4(d) of 
Regulation Q, a bank may pay a time deposit before maturity where that is 
"necessary to prevent great hardship to the depositor", but in that case 
the depositor forfeits accrued and unpaid (uncredited) interest. Occa-
sions for such withdrawals are exceptional. Unless the depositor is 
confronted with an actual emergency, a bank may not permit withdrawal of 
17 A single maturity time deposit also may be renewed by action of the 
depositor within 10 days after maturity. In such event, as in the case of 
the aaltiple maturity time deposit, a member bank may pay interest on the 
deposit between the maturity date and renewal thereof at the applicable 
maximum rate. 

2079 
-5-
funds before maturity of the deposit or termination of the specified 
period of notice. If the depositor simply has a need for funds, the bank 
may extend credit to him on the security of his time deposit, but the 
rate of interest on such loan must be at least 2 per cent per annum in 
excess of the rate of interest paid on the time deposit. 
Advertising time deposits. Some recent advertisements by 
member banks might be interpreted as offering withdrawal privileges from 
a 5 per cent multiple maturity time deposit at intervals of less than 
90 days. 
In December 1966, the Board was joined by the Comptroller of 
the Currency, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Federal 
Home Loan Bank Board in a statement of principles directed against mis-
leading advertising practices in the solicitation of deposits; The 
third principle states that "If an advertised rate is payable only on 
investments or deposits that meet fixed time or amount requirements, such 
requirements should be stated." An advertisement by a member bank that 
permits the reader to infer that the bank will pay interest at the rate 
of 5 per cent on funds that may be withdrawn at intervals of less than 
90 days is inconsistent with that principle and is regarded by the Board 
as misleading. 
The Board heretofore has refrained, in the definition of "time 
deposit" in Regulation Q, from prescribing permissible designations for 
such deposits, and has not objected to banks offering time deposit con-
tracts that are called "savings certificates" or "savings bonds". 
L 

2080 
-6-
However, use of such designations without explanation might have a mis-
leading tendency, because of the public's impression that "savings" in 
a bank will be paid at any time. Consequently, the greater the possibility 
that the name given to an account may mislead, the more imperative is the 
bank's obligation to direct the depositor's attention to the withdrawal 
restrictions that govern the particular account offered. 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
June 5, 1968. 

T E L E G R A M 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N 
June 5, 1968 
MAC LAURY - NEW YORK 
Board approves a 60-day extension of loans on gold up 
to a total of $13 million by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
to the Central Bank of the Philippines on the terms described in 
your wire of June 4 and subject to the conditions outlined. 
(Signed) Robert C. Holland 
HOLLAND 
Z i i & l 
Item No. 15 
6/5/68 

ZQ&2 
TITLE 12 - BANKS AND BANKING 
Item No. 16 
CHAPTER II - FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
6/5/68 
SUBCHAPTER A - BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 264 - EMPLOYEE RESPONSIBILITIES AND CONDUCT 
1. Effective immediately, Part 264 is revised to read as follows: 
Sec. 
264.735-1 Purpose. 
264.735-2 Definitions. 
264.735-3 Effective date, distribution, and counseling. 
264.735-4 Financial statements. 
264.735-5 Disciplinary or remedial action. 
264.735-6 Ethical and other conduct and responsibilities of employees. 
264.735-7 Ethical and other conduct and responsibilities of special 
employees. 
264.735-8 Statements of employment and financial interests. 
Authority: The provisions of Part 264 are issued under E.O. 11222 of 
May 8, 1965, 30 F.R. 6469, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 306; 5 CFR 735.104. 
§ 264.735-1 Purpose. 
The maintenance of unusually high standards of honesty, integrity, 
impartiality, and conduct by employees and special employees of the Board is 
essential to assure the proper performance of Board business and the main-
tenance of confidence by citizens in their Government. The avoidance of 
misconduct and conflicts of interest on the part of employees and special 
employees of the Board through use of informed judgment is indispensable 
to the maintenance of these standards. To accord with these concepts, this 
part prescribes standards of conduct and responsibilities, and governs 
statements reporting employment and financial interests of the Boardfs 
employees and special employees of the Board. 
§ 264.735-2 Definitions. 
For the purposes of this part, including all forms promulgated 
for use herewith, unless the context requires otherwise: 
(a) "Board" means Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 

£083 
, j 
(b) "Employee" means an officer or employee of the Board but does 
not include a special employee. 
(c) "Special Government employee" (herein referred to as special 
employee) means an officer or employee of the Board who is retained, desig-
nated, appointed, or employed to perform, with or without compensation, 
for not to exceed 130 days during any period of 365 consecutive days, 
temporary duties either on a full-time or intermittent basis. 
(d) "Conflict or apparent conflict of interest" means a conflict 
or the appearance of a conflict between the interests of an employee or 
special employee and the performance of his services for the Board. 
§ 264.735-3 Effective date, distribution, and counseling. 
(a) This part and any amendment thereto shall be effective upon 
publication in the Federal Register. 
(b) The Division of Personnel Administration shall distribute a 
comprehensive summary of this part to every employee and every special 
employee within 90 days after the effective date, and to each new employee 
and special employee at the time of entrance on duty, and distribute to 
every employee and every special employee each calendar year thereafter a 
reminder of the basic provisions of this part, A copy of this part shall 
be made available, upon request, to every employee and special employee 
by the Division of Personnel Administration, or by the Counselor or any 
Deputy Counselor. 
(c) A Counselor and Deputy Counselors, appointed by the Board, 
shall be available for counseling and guidance respecting statutes and 
regulations affecting employee responsibility and conduct, including inter-
pretations of the provisions of this part, and each employee and special 
employee shall be notified of this service by the Division of Personnel 
Administration at the time he receives a comprehensive summary of this part. 

§ 264.735-4 Financial statements. 
(a) Each employee required to do so by § 264.735-8(a) shall 
complete and file Form FR 264.A in accordance with § 264.735-8. Each 
special employee shall complete and file Form FR 264.B in accordance 
with § 264.735-8. 
(b) All Forms FR 264.A and FR 264.B shall be received and 
reviewed by the Director of the Division of Personnel Administration 
or his designated representative to determine whether there are any 
conflicts or apparent conflicts of interest or other violations of this 
part, law, or other regulations. The Director shall be responsible for 
maintaining, all completed forms in confidence pursuant to paragraph_(c) 
tr.*1!3 section and shall not allow access to. o^ allow information to 
disclosed fromT a form—except to carry out the purpose of this part. 
Information obtained from other sources shall be treated as if it was 
contained in the forms. 
(c) All reports, forms, papers, and the information contained 
therein, filed pursuant to this section shall be confidential, except as 
the Board or the Civil Service Commission may determine for good cause 
shown. 
§ 264.735-5 Disciplinary or remedial action. 
In addition to any action that may be taken, or penalty imposed, 
for violations of this part, as prescribed by law: 
(a) When conflicts or apparent conflicts of interest or other 
violations or apparent violations of this part cannot be resolved or 

20 85 
-4-
explained to the satisfaction of the Director of Personnel Administration, 
he shall report the matter to the Board through the Counselor. 
(b) The employee or special employee concerned shall be given 
an opportunity to explain such conflicts or apparent conflicts of interest 
before and after the matter is reported to the Board. 
(c) The Board, after consideration of the matter, and after an 
opportunity for the employee or special employee concerned to appear, 
shall decide what steps are to be taken to remedy the situation. Arr.ong 
other steps, the Board may: 
(1) Attempt to remove any conflict of interest by requiring a 
change in duties, disqualification for a particular assignment, or divest-
ment of the conflicting interest by the employee or special employee; 
(2) Take other corrective action; or 
(3) Where corrective actions are inadequate, impose disciplinary 
action. Remedial action, whether disciplinary or otherwise, shall be 
effected in accordance with any applicable laws, Executive orders, and 
regulations. 
5 264.735-6 Ethical and other conduct and responsibilities of employees. 
(a) ^n employee shall avoid aaction,, whether^ or not .specifically 
prohibined by this 5 264.735-6. which taight result in, or createJ-.he jippear-
a^y® of: 
(i) UsJLng.,pqjblic offic^ Jor^ private gain; 
(ii) Giving preferential treatment to any person; 
(iii) Impeding Board efficiegcv or ecqpomv; 

2 0 8 6 
-5-
UvJ Lib«»jjnifi comp 1 ete independence _or impartiality; 
(v) Waking a Board decision outside official channels; or 
(vi) Affecting adversely the confidence of the public in the 
integrity of the Board and the Government. 
(b) C'fts. entertainment, favors, and loans. (1) Except as 
provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, an employee shall not 
solicit or accept, directly or indirectly, any gift, gratuity, favor, 
entertainment, loan, or any other thing of monetary value, from a person 
who: 
(1) Has or is seeking to obtain contractual or other business 
or financial relations with the Board; 
(ii) Conducts operations or activities that are regulated by the 
Board; or 
(iii) Has interests that may be substantially affected by the 
performance or nonperformance of his official duty. 
(2) Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not apply to the 
following activities that are necessary to, or compatible with the duties 
and responsibilities of, the Board and its employees: 
(i) The acceptance of loans from, or other financial relations 
with, banks or other financial institutions, in the ordinary course of 
business of the bank or other financial institution and the employee, 
governed by terms no more favorable than would be available in like 
circumstances to persons who are not employees of the Board, except as 
provided by law or regulation; 
(ii) Obvious family or personal relationships (such as those 
between the parents, children, or spouse of the employee and the employee) 

2087 
-6-
when the circumstances make it clear that it is those relationships rather 
than the business of the persons concerned that are the motivating factors; 
(iii) The acceptance of food, refreshments, or accompanying enter-
tainment in the ordinary course of a luncheon or dinner meeting or other 
function or inspection tour where an employee is properly in attendance; 
(iv) The acceptance of lodging on unusual occasions if an employee 
is properly in attendance and the circumstances thereof are reported to the 
Board, or if covered by paragraph (c)(4) of this section; or 
(v) The acceptance of unsolicited advertising or promotional 
materials, such as pens, pencils, note pads, calendars, and other items 
of nominal intrinsic value. 
(3) An employee shall not solicit contributions from another 
m 
M 
• J ( '• i 
• 
(j 
-t 
>"•'• 
<" 
employee for a gift to an employee in a superior official position. An 
employee in a superior official position shall not accept a gift presented 
as a contribution from employees receiving less salary than himself. An 
employee shall not make a donation as a gift to an employee in a superior 
official position. Howevert this subparagraph does not prohibit a voluntary 
f ^ t ,.SiL n9P?.*n.g-l J&kjeL or donation in a nominal amount made on * special 
0£casior_such.j^_ marriage^ illness, or retirement. 
(4) An employee shall not accept a gift, present, decoration, 
or other thing from a foreign government unless authorized by Congress as 
provided by the Constitution and other law. 
(5) Neither yttils paragraph (b) nor paragraph (c) .of this_sjection 
precludes an employee from receipt of bona fide reimbursement, unless pro-
hibited by law, for actual expenses for travel and such other subsistence 

2088 
-7-
a s i s compatible with this part for which no Government payment or 
reimbursement is made. However, an employee may not be reimbursed, and 
payment may not be made on his behalf, for excessive personal living 
expenses or other personal benefits. 
(c) Outside employment and other activity. (1) An employee 
shall not engage in outside employment or other outside activity not 
compatible with the full and proper discharge of the duties and respon-
sibilities of his Eoard employment. Incompatible activities include but 
are not limited to: 
(1) Acceptance of a fee, compensation, gift, payment of ex-
pense, or any other thing of monetary value, in circumstances in which 
acceptance may result in, or create the appearance of, (a) conflicts of 
interest or (b) the use of nonpublic information gained through, or 
incidental to, his Board duties, except as provided in this part; 
(ii) Outside employment which tends to impair his mental or 
Physical capacity to perform his Board duties and responsibilities in 
' 
* u * 
an acceptable manner; or 
(iii) Outside business and teaching employment not approved by 
the Board and reported on Form FR 725. 
(2) An employee shall not receive any salary or anything of 
monetary value from a private source as compensation for his services 
to the Board. 
(3) Employees are encouraged to engage in teaching, lecturing, 
speaking, and writing relating to the Board's functions and responsi-
bilities that is not prohibited by law, Executive Order 11222, or this 

--8-
part. However, an employee shall not, either for or without compensation, 
engage in such activities including teaching, lecturing, or writing for the 
purpose of the special preparation of a person or class of persons for an 
examination of the Civil Service Commission or Board of Examiners for the 
Foreign Service, that are dependent on information obtained as a result of 
his Board employment, except when that information has been made available 
to the general public or will be made available on request, or when the 
Board gives written authorization for the use of nonpublic information on 
the basis that the use is in the public interest. In any case, before 
any employee engages in such activities, he shall consult his Division 
Head for the appropriate procedure to obtain official approval. 
(4) This paragraph (c) does not preclude an employee from: 
(i) Participation in the activities of national or State 
political parties not prohibited by law; or 
(ii) Participation in the affairs of, or acceptance of an award 
for a meritorious public contribution or achievement given by, a charitable, 
religious, professional, social, fraternal, nonprofit educational and 
recreational, public service, or civic organization. 
(d) Financial interest. (1) An employee shall not: 
(i) Have a direct or indirect financial interest that conflicts 
substantially, or appears to conflict substantially, with his duties and 
responsibilities with the Board; 
(ii) Engage in, directly or indirectly, a financial transaction 
as a result of, or primarily relying on, information obtained through his 
employment with the Board; 

£031 
-9-
(iii) Engage in speculative dealings (as distinguished from 
investments), whether on a margin or a cash basis, and whether in securi-
ties, commodities, real estate, exchange, or otherwise. Frequency of 
trading, the use of credit, and particularly transactions to take ad-
vantage of short-term price fluctuations, would be significant indications 
that dealings were speculative; or 
(iv) Purchase equity securities of a bank, an affiliate thereof, 
or a Government security dealer; and an employee holding or acquiring 
such securities shall dispose of them as promptly as is practicable with-
out causing undue hardship unless, after full disclosure in writing, the 
Board approves continued holVJ ^ o f such securities. 
(2) This section does not preclude an employee from having a 
financial interest or engaging in financial transactions to the same 
extent as a private citizen not employed by the Board so long as it is 
not prohibited by law, Executive Order 11222, applicable regulation, or 
this part, including indebtedness to banks or other financial institutions 
on the same terms and conditions available to the employee if he were not 
an employee of the Board. 
(e) Use of Board property. An employee shall not directly or 
indirectly use, or allow the use of, Board property of any kind, including 
property leased to the Board, for other than officially approved activities; 
an employee has a positive duty to protect and conserve Board property, 
including equipment, supplies, and other property entrusted or issued to 
him. 

£031 
-10-
(f) M,&8uge of information. For the purpose of furthering a 
private interest, an employee shall not, except as provided in para-
graph (c)(3) of this section, directly or indirectly use, or allow the 
use of, official information obtained through or in connection with his 
Board employment which has not been made available to the general public. 
(g) Disclosure of unpublished information. An employee of the 
Board shall not disclose to any person any unpublished information of 
the Board obtained in the course of his work except as authorized by 
the Board's Rules Regarding Information, Submittals, and Requests 
(S 261.2 of this chapter). 
(h) Indebtedness. An employee shall pay each just financial 
obligation in a proper and timely manner, especially one imposed by law 
such as Federal, State, or local taxes. For the purpose of this section, 
a "just financial obligation" means one acknowledged by the employee or 
reduced to judgment by a court, and "in a proper and timely manner" means 
in a manner which the Board determines does not, under the circumstances, 
reflect adversely on the Board as his employer. In the event of dispute 
between an employee and an alleged creditor, this section does not require 
the Board to determine the validity or amount of the disputed debt. 
(i) Gambling, betting, and lotteries. An employee shall not 
participate, while on Board-owned or leased property or while on duty 
for the Board, in any gambling activity including the operating of a 
gambling device, in conducting a lottery or pool, in a game for money 
or property, or in selling or purchasing a numbers slip or ticket. 

-11-
(j) General conduct prejudicial to the Government. An employee 
shall not engage in criminal, infamous, dishonest, immoral, or notoriously 
disgraceful conduct, or other conduct prejudicial to the Government or 
the Board. 
(k) Mis cellaneous statutory provisions. Each employee shall 
acquaint himself with each statute that relates to his ethical and other 
conduct while an employee of the Board. In particular, the following 
statutes shall be noted: 
(1) House Concurrent Resolution 175, 85th Congress, 2d Session, 
72 Stat. B12, the "Code of Ethics for Government Service". 
(2) Chapter 11 of Title 1C, United States Code, relating to 
bribery, graft, and conflicts of interest. (In particular, 18 U.S.C. 212 
and 213, prohibiting the offer to a bank examiner, or the acceptance by 
a bank examiner, of a gratuity or a loan from certain banks; $5,000 fine 
and/or one year in prison.) 
(3) The prohibition against lobbying with appropriated funds 
(18 U.S.C. 1913) ($500 fine and/or one year in prison and removal from 
employment). 
(4) The prohibitions against disloyalty and striking 
(5 U.S.C. 7311, 10 .U.S.0^1918) ($1,000 fine and/or one year and one 
day in prison). 
(5) The prohibition against the employment of a member of a 
Communist organization (50 U.S.C. 704). 
(6) The prohibition against (i) the disclosure of classified 
information (10 U.S.C. 790, 50 U.S.C. 783) ($10,000 fine and/or 10 years 
in prison); and (ii) the disclosure of confidential information 

2033 
-12-
(18 U.S.C. 1905) ($1,0C0 fine and/or one year in prison, and removal 
from employment) . 
(7) The provision relating to the habitual use of into::icants 
to excess (5 U.S.C. 7352) (ineligibility for employment in the com-
petitive service). 
(0) The prohibition against the misuse of a Government vehicle 
(31 U.G.C. 630a(c) (suspension from duty or removal from employment). 
(9) The prohibition against the misuse of the franking privilege 
(10 U.S.C. 1719) ($300 fine). 
(10) The prohibition against the use of deceit in an examination 
or personnel action in connection with Government employment (18 U.S.C. 1917) 
($1,000 fine and/or one year in prison). 
(11) The prohibition against fraud or false statements in a 
Government matter (10 U.S.C. 1001) ($10,000 fine and/or five years in 
prison). 
(12) The prohibition against mutilating or destroying a public 
record (18 U.S.C, 2071) ($2,000 fine and/or three years in prison). 
(13) The-prohibition against counterfeiting and forging trans-
portation requests (1G U.S.C. 500) ($5,000 fine and/or 10 years in prison). 
(14) The prohibitions against (i) embezzlement of Government 
money or property (10 U.S.C. 641); (ii) failing to account for public 
money (18 U.S.C. 643); and (iii) embezzlement of the money or property 
of another person in the possession of an employee by reason of his 
employment (10 U.G.C. 654) (fines from $1,000 to $10,000 and/or one 
to 10 years in prison). 

2094 
-13-
(15) The prohibition against unauthorized use of documents 
relating to claims from or by the Government (10 U.S.C. 205) ($5,000 
fine and/or five years in prison). 
(16) The prohibition against proscribed political activities— 
the Hatch Act (5 U.S.C. 7321-7327) (possible removal from employment) 
and 10 U.S.C. 602, 603, 607, and 600 (fines of $5,000 and/or five years 
in prison). 
(17) The prohibition against disclosure of certain information 
by a bank examiner (10 U.S.C. 1906) ($5,000 fine and/or one year in 
prison). 
(10) The orohibition against an employee actine as the agent of 
a foreign principal registered under the Foreign A^e-ts Registration Act 
(18 U.S.C. 219) 
10j000 fine and/or two^ears in orison). 
§ 264.735-7 Ethical and other conduct and responsibilities of special 
employees. 
(a) Use of Board employment. A special employee shall not use 
his Board employment for a purpose that is, or gives the appearance of 
being, motivated by the desire for private gain for himself or another 
person, particularly one with whom he has family, business, or financial 
ties. 
(b) Use of inside information. A special employee shall not 
u se inside information obtained as a result of his Board employment for 
private gain for himself or another person either by direct action on his 
part or by counsel, recommendation, or suggestion to another person, par-
ticularly one with whom he has family, business, or financial ties. For 

2 0 3 5 
-14-
1 
the purpose of this paragraph, "inside information" meaiis information 
obtained under Board authority which has not become part of the body of 
public information. However, a special employee may teach, lecture, or 
write in a manner not inconsistent with the appropriate provisions of 
S 264.735-6(c) in regard to employees. 
(c) Coercion. A special employee shall not use his Board 
employment to coerce, or give the appearance of coercing, a person to 
provide financial benefit to himself or another person, particularly 
one with whom he has family, business, or financial ties. 
(d) Gifts, entertainment, and favors. (1) Except as provided 
in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, a special employee, while so em-
ployed or in connection with his employment, shall not receive or solicit 
from a person having business with the Board anything of value as a gift, 
gratuity, loan, entertainment, or favor for himself or another person, 
particularly one with whom he has family, business, or financial ties. 
(2) Subparagraph (1) of this paragraph shall not apply to the 
activities referred to in 5 264.735-6(b)(2) which are necessary to, and 
compatible with the duties and responsibilities of, the Board and its 
special employees. 
(e) Miscellaneous statutory provisions. Each special employee 
shall acquaint himself with each statute that relates to his ethical and 
other conduct while a special employee. In particular, the statutes 
listed in § 264.735-6(k) shall be noted. 
(f) Other provisions applicable to special employees. Para-
graphs (e), (g), (h), and (j) of § 264.735-6 shall be applicable to 
special employees. 

§ 264.735-8 Statements of employment and financial interests. 
(a) Employees required to submit statements. Except as pro-
vided in paragraph (b) of this section, statements of employment and 
financial interests on Form FR 264.A shall be filed by each employee 
at GS-13 and above, or equivalent who is a Head, Associate Head, or 
Assistant Head of a Division or an Office of the Board (regardless of 
his specific title), an Adviser, or Assistant to the Board, the Board's 
Legislative Counsel, and the Chief Federal Reserve Examiner. 
(b) Employees not required to submit statements. Neither 
Form FR 264.A nor Form FR 264.B is required by this section from a 
member of the Board of Governors. Board members are subject to separate 
reporting requirements under section 401 of Executive Order 11222. 
(c) Time and place for submission of employees' statements. 
An employee required to submit a Form FR 264.A under this part shall 
submit that form to the Director of the Division of Personnel Administra-
tion or his designated representative not later than: 
(1) Ninety days after the effective date of this part if em-
Ployed on or before the effective date; or 
(2) Thirty days after his entrance on duty. However, this 
subparagraph does not require a submission earlier than 90 days after 
the effective date of this part. 
(d) Supplementary statements. Changes in, or additions to, 
i 
•>'• 
I » 
k 
— > / 
* A. t 
'A 
- 
• .-» 1 
the information contained in an employee's Form FR 264.A shall be reported 
a supplementary statement as of June 30. 

2037 
-1C-
If ito changes or additions occur, a negative report is required. 
Notwithstanding the filing of an annual report require^ by this section, 
each employee shall at all times avoid acquiring a financial interest that 
could result, or talciar an action that would result, in a violation of the 
conflict-of-interest provisions of 1G U.S.C. 20Z or 5 
2.4.735-0 of this 
part. Supplementary reports shall be filed on For^ FR 2^4.A, indicating 
the year for which the report is filed in Part I of the Form. 
(e) Interests of employees' relatives. The interest of a spouse, 
minor child, or other member of an employee's immediate household is con-
sidered to be an interest of the employee. For the purpose of this section, 
ii 
member of an employee's immediate household" means those blood relations 
whc are residents of the employee's household. 
(f) Information not known by employees. If any information 
required to be included on a statement of employment an^ financial in-
terests or supplementary statement, including holdings placed in trust, 
l s not known to the employee but is known to another person, the employee 
shall req-iest that person to submit information in his behalf. 
(c) Information prohibited. This section does not require an 
®UlPloyee to submit a statement of employment and financial interests or 
•supplementary statement of any information relating to the employee's 
connection with, or interest in, a professional society or a charitable, 
Teligious, social, fraternal, recreational, public service, civic, or 
"P°Htical organization or similar organization not conducted as a business 
^terprise. For the purpose of this paragraph, educational and other 

2088 
-17-
institutions doing research and development or related work involving 
grants of money from or contracts with the Board are deemed "business 
enterprises" and are required to be included in an employee's statement 
of employment and financial interests. 
(h) Effect of employees1 statements on other requirements. 
The statements of employment and financial interests and supplementary 
statements required of employees are in addition to, and not in sub-
stitution for, or in derogation of, any similar requirement imposed by 
hia 
ji 
. 
; 
law, order, or regulation. The submission of a statement or supplementary 
statement by an employee does not permit him or any other person to par-
i i .
: 
; 
• 
» 
i . 
. i • • •' , • , . .. 
. 
.. . 
ticipate in a matter in which his or the other person's participation 
is prohibited by law, order, or regulation. 
(i) Employee's complaint on filing requirement. An emplovee 
mfiy complain through the Board's grievance procedure „thar bis position 
has been, improperly included in thisjgartjas one reouiring the,submission 
°f a Form FR 264.A. 
(j) Specific provisions of Board regulations for special employees. 
(1) Except as provided in subparagraph (2) of this paragraph, each special 
employee shall submit on Form FR 264.B a statement of employment and fi-
nancial interests which reports: 
(i) All other employment; and 
(ii) The financial interests of the special employee which the 
Board^determines are.relevant in^he..light.oj^the. 
es he U 
perform. 

2039 
-18-
(2) The Board may waive the requirement in subparagraph (1) of 
this paragraph for the submission of a statement of employment and financial 
interests in the case of a special employee who is not a consultant or an 
expert when the Board finds that the duties of the position held by that 
special employee are of a nature and at such a level of responsibility that 
the submission of the statement by the incumbent is not necessary to pro-
tect the integrity of the Board and the Government. For the purpose of 
this paragraph, "consultant" and "expert" have the meanings given those 
terms by Chapter 304 of the Federal Personnel Manual, but do not include 
a physician, dentist, or allied medical specialist whose services are 
procured to provide care and service to patients. 
(3) The statement of employment and financial interests required 
to be submitted under this paragraph shall be submitted in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) of this § 264.735-G (however, 
supplemental information shall be filed on Form FPv 264.B). The provisions 
o f Paragraphs (e), (f), (g), and (h) of this 5 264.735-8 shall apply to 
statements of employment and financial interests of special employees 
where appropriate. 

. 2 1 C 0 
-19-
2a. This part is revised pursuant to and in accordance with 
sections 201 through 209 of Title 18 of the United States Code, Executive 
Order 11222 of May 8, 1965 (30 F.R. 6469, 3 CFR, 1964-1965 Comp., p. 306), 
and Title 5, Chapter I, Part 735 of the Code of Federal Regulations. The 
amendments reflected in the revision were approved by the Civil Service 
Commission on May 31, 1968, and are effective upon publication in the 
Federal Register. 
b. The provisions of section 553 of Title 5, United States 
Code, relating to notice and public participation and to deferred effec-
tive dates, were not followed In connection with this revision, because 
the rules contained therein reflect agency procedure and practice and 
accordingly do not constitute substantive rules subject to the require-
ments of such section. 
Dated at Washington, D. C., this 5th day of June, 1968. 
By order of the Board of Governors. 
-v 
(signed) 
Rotor* 
pr 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

C O P Y 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K O F D A L L A S 
D A L L A S , T E X A S 
7 5 2 2 2 
2101 
Item No. 17 
6/5/68 
May 30, 1968 
Mr. M. £. Peeploc 
Assistant Vice President ond Controller 
fctercantile Rational Bank at Dallas 
P. 0. Box 5^15 
Dallas, Texas 75222 
Dear Mr. Peeple^: 
This refers to the request in your letter of May 30, 
1^68, for an extension of ten days for filing the Annual Report 
of the Mercantile National Bank at Dallas, Dallas, Texas, as a 
bank holding company. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, this Bank has approved your request for 
an extension of time for filing the report. The Mercantile 
National Bank at Dallas, Dallas, Texas, will be ulloved until 
June 10, 1968, \rithin vhich to file its Annual Report as a bank 
holding company (Form F.R. Y-6) with the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System pursuant to the Bank Holding Connany 
Act of 1956, as amended, and Regulation Y. 
Sincerely, 
Thomas R. Sullivan 
Vice President 
fcee: Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 20551 

B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 18 
• F THE 
6/5/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
D FFI C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 3, 1968 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the requests contained in 
Mr. Heck's letters of May 24, 1968, the Acting Director 
of the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the appointments 
°f Carroll Tanner and Miss Christina Mary Tomczak as assis-
tant examiners for the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Please 
advise if the appointments are not made effective on June 10, 
> a n d July 1, 1968, respectively, as planned. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2103 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 19 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 3, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Community Bank and Trust Company, 
Paoli, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
The Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, 
approves the establishment of a branch by Community Bank and 
Trust Company, Paoli, Pennsylvania, in a shopping center on the 
south side of First Avenue, west of Church Street, Parkesburg, 
Pennsylvania, provided the branch is established within one year 
from the date of this letter. 
In considering this application, it has been determined 
that your bank's capital is adequate, that the proposed branch 
will serve the convenience and needs of the community, and that 
establishment of the branch will not tend to create an undesirable 
competitive situation. It is understood that Vice President Campbell 
of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia has discussed with 
President Miller the desirability of providing for management 
succession. This matter deserves your close attention. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

£210 
Item No. 20 
n 
Kl 
v / 
6/5/68 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K OF N E W 
Y O R K 
f 
N E W Y O R K , N . Y . 
1 0 0 4 5 
A R E A 
C O O E 
2 1 2 
7 3 2 - 5 7 0 0 
May 31, 1968 
Mr. Richard N. Darpino 
Assistant Vice President 
The Industrial Bank of Binghamton 
Binghamton, New York 
13902 
Dear Mr. Darpino: 
We refer to a copy of your letter dated May 28, 
1 9 6 8 , 
"the original of which was sent to Mr. Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, requesting an extension of the time within which your 
b a n k may complete membership in the Federal Reserve System as 
aPproved "by the Board of Governors on May 9, 1968. 
On "behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, acting 
Under delegated authority, has approved your request and 
e*tends to August 9, 1 9 6 8 , the time within which your "bank may 
complete membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Kindly acknowledge receipt by signing and returning 
the enclosed copy of this letter to Mr. Ben Stackhouse, Manager, 
Bank Examinations Department. 
Sincerely yours, 
Thomas M. Timlen, Jr. 
Vice President 
^ c l o s u r e 

2105 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 21 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 4, 1968 
Mr. R. M. Stephenson, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, 
Atlanta, Georgia. 
30303 
Dear Mr. Stephenson: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
the copy of Mr. Heck's letter of April 30, 1968, the 
Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, on 
behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated 
authority, approves the appointment of Harold Boyd 
Betty, Jr., as an assistant examiner for the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Please advise if the appoint-
ment of Mr. Betty is not made effective on June 10, 1968, 
as planned. 
A search of the Board's records failed to 
reveal receipt of Mr. Heck's original letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2106 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 22 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 4, 1968 
Mr. Leland M. Ross, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, 
Chicago, Illinois. 
60690 
Dear Mr. Ross: 
In accordance with the request contained in your 
letter of May 29, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division 
of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of Governors under 
delegated authority, approves the appointment of James F. 
Whitmer, at present an assistant examiner, as an examiner for 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago, effective July 8, 1968. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2107 
B D A R D D F G D V E R N • R S 
Item No. 23 
OF THE 
6/5/68 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
June 4, 1968 
Board of Directors, 
Marine National Bank of Jacksonville, 
Jacksonville, Florida. 
Gentlemen: 
With reference to your request submitted through the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the Director of the Division 
of Bank Operations of the Board of Governors, acting under 
delegated authority, grants permission pursuant to provisions 
of Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to the Marine National 
Bank of Jacksonville to maintain the same reserves against 
deposits as are required to be maintained by banks not in reserve 
cities, effective as of May 27, 1968, the date it opened for 
business. 
Your attention is called to the fact that such 
permission is subject to revocation by the Board of Governors. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
'•f^LRE^V 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

£88 
C 0 P Y 
Item No. 24 
6/5/68 
JUNE 4, 1968 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS 
THE BANK OF ATCHISON COUNTY 
ROCK PORT, MISSOURI 
GENTLEMEN: 
THIS HAS REFERENCE TO YOUR LETTER DATED MAY 29, 1968, SIGNED 
BY MR. J. R. BAILEY, PRESIDENT, TOGETHER WITH THE ACCOMPANYING 
RESOLUTION DATED MAY 17, 1968, SIGNIFYING YOUR INTENTION TO WITH-
DRAW THE BANK OF ATCHISON COUNTY, ROCK PORT, MISSOURI, FROM MEMBER-
SHIP IN THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM AND REQUESTING WAIVER OF SIX 
MONTHS' NOTICE OF SUCH WITHDRAWAL. 
ON BEHALF OF THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS ACTING UNDER DELEGATED 
AUTHORITY, THIS BANK HEREBY WAIVES THE REQUIREMENTS OF SIX MONTHS' 
NOTICE OF WITHDRAWAL UNDER THE PROVISION OF SECTION 208.10(c) OF 
THE BOARD'S REGULATION H. YOUR INSTITUTION MAY ACCOMPLISH TERMI-
NATION OF ITS MEMBERSHIP AT ANY TIME WITHIN SIX MONTHS FROM THE 
DATE THAT NOTICE OF INTENTION TO WITHDRAW FROM MEMBERSHIP WAS 
GIVEN. UPON SURRENDER OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE STOCK ISSUED TO 
YOUR INSTITUTION, SUCH STOCK WILL BE CANCELLED AND AN APPROPRI-
ATE REFUND WILL BE MADE THEREON. 
IT IS REQUESTED THAT THE CERTIFICATE OF MEMBERSHIP BE RE-
TURNED TO THIS BANK WHEN YOU HAVE RECEIVED PERMISSION TO OPERATE 
AS AN INSURED NONMEMBER BANK. 
VERY TRULY YOURS, 
M. J. SWORDS 
VICE PRESIDENT 
cc - ME JOHN STATHOS, 
SUPERVISING EXAMINER 
FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORPORATION 

2I0S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E B A N K OP S A N 
F R A N C I S C O 
S A N F R A N C I S C O . C A I J F O R N I A 
04190 
Item No. 25 
6/5/68 
June 4, 1968 
Mr. Robert H. Steele, 
Assistant Vice President, 
Wells Fargo Bank, 
464 California Street, 
San Francisco, California 94120. 
Dear Mr. Steele: 
This will refer to your lettej^eted February-
1968, in which application was made^tfrperhiission to 
establish a branch office in the^dxinity of\the inter-
section of Van Nuys Boulevard and Roscoe Boulevard, in the 
Panorama City district of the C£ty of Los ^rtgeles, Los 
Angeles County, California. 
On the/basis of 
general knowledge of your ba 
capitalization Ls adecuite, m 
that the proposlad branch will 
neads"oF~the community, and 
create an undesirable 
x field \ investigation and our 
, we believe that the bank's 
|nagementx is satisfactory, 
serve the convenience and 
at the branch will not tend 
•etitive situation. 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, 
^this Bank app/oves the establishment by Wells Fargo Bank, 
Francisco, California, of a branch to be located at 
8 m Van Nuys Boulevard, Panorama City district, City of 
Los Angeles, California, provided the branch is estab-
lished within one year from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Irwin L. Jennings -
Irwin L. Jennings, 
Vice President. 
• 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 26 
6/5/68 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1968 
Mr. Fred W. Piderit, Jr., Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, 
New York, New York. 
10045 
Dear Mr. Piderit: 
In accordance with the request contained in your letter 
of May 31, 1968, the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations, 
on behalf of the Board of Governors under delegated authority, ap-
proves the appointments of William M. Rossi, Henry E. Johannensen, 
and Robert J. Branch as assistant examiners for the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York/ Please advise the effective date of the appoint-
ments . 
It is noted that Mr. Branch and his wife own 25 shares of 
stock of the Madison National Bank, Madison, New Jersey, and that 
the stock is in the process of being sold. Accordingly, the ap-
proval of the appointment of Mr. Branch is given on the condition 
that he will dispose of the stock prior to the effective date of 
his appointment. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2111 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
O F 
T H E 
Item No. 27 
6/5/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 29, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Oklahoma State Bank, Buffalo, Oklahoma, 
for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from member-
ship in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged upon 
the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Acting Director would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in 
the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 

2112 
B D A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F THE 
Item No. 28 
6/5/68 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
June 6, 1968 
Mr. Edward H. DeHority, Chief, 
Division of Examination, 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, 
Washington, D. C. 20429 
Dear Mr. DeHority: 
Reference is made to your letter of May 29, 1968, con-
cerning the application of Citizens State Bank of Dalhart, Dalhart, 
Texas, for continuance of deposit insurance after withdrawal from 
membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
Under delegated authority, the Acting Director of the 
Division of Examinations has stated, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors, that there have been no corrective programs urged upon 
the bank, or agreed to by it, which have not been fully consummated, 
and there are no programs that the Acting Director would advise be 
incorporated as conditions of admitting the bank to membership in 
the Corporation as a nonmember of the Federal Reserve System. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Robert P. Forrestal 
Robert P. Forrestal, 
Assistant Secretary. 
