... . 
, 
May 31, 1967 
Minutes for 
3 
' 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: Office of the Secretary 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

2144 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 31, 1967. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Sherrill 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bakke, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Farrell, Director, Division of Bank 
Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Examinations 
Mr. Johnson, Director, Division of Personnel 
Administration 
Mr. Shay, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Daniels, Assistant Director, Division of 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Smith, Assistant Director, Division of 
Examinations 
Mr. Walcutt, Assistant Chief Federal Reserve 
Examiner 
Mr. Ring, Senior Technical Assistant, Division 
of Bank Operations 
Mr. Wood, Personnel Specialist, Division of 
Personnel Administration 
Supplemental order for Federal Reserve notes (Item No. 1). 
There had been circulated a memorandum from the Division of Bank Opera-
tions dated May 22, 1967, indicating that the Assistant Federal Reserve 
Agent at the Boston Reserve Bank had requested a supplemental printing 
of one-dollar Federal Reserve notes of that Bank for fiscal year 1967, 

2145 
5/31/67 
-2-
iri order to avoid possible exhaustion of the reserve supply before the 
end of that period. Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter 
to the Comptroller of the Currency amending the Board's initial print-
ing order of June 29, 1966, to request the printing of an additional 
9.6 million notes of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston in the one-
dollar denomination. 
The letter was approved unanimously for transmittal to the 
Comptroller; a copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
NASSB Convention (Item No. 2). There had been distributed a 
memorandum from the Division of Examinations dated May 26, 1967, point-
ing out that the 1967 Annual Convention of the National Association of 
Supervisors of State Banks would be held in Louisville, Kentucky, from 
August 14 through August 18, and that in the past all vice presidents 
of examinations and certain other officials of the Reserve Banks had 
attended along with two or three officials of the Board's Division of 
Examinations. It was also pointed out that for several years a meeting 
of System examining personnel had been held during the convention, and 
such a meeting was proposed for August 15. 
1 
The memorandum requested approval of: (l) attendance at the 
convention by Mr. Solomon and two other officials of the Division; (2) 
payment of the $40 registration fee for each Board representative; and 
(3) a letter to the Federal Reserve Banks advising them of the meeting 
on August 15 and soliciting topics to be included on the agenda. 

214B 
5/31/67 
-3-
The foregoing requests were approved unanimously. A copy of 
the letter as transmitted is attached as Item No. 2. 
Loans to executive officers (Item No. 3). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from Mr. Cardon dated May 26, 1967, stating that 
the House Banking and Currency Committee had reported a considerably 
amended version of H.R. 9682, a bill to liberalize the restrictions in 
section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act on loans by member banks to 
their executive officers, and that the Committee's Staff Director had 
requested a letter from the Board to the effect that the provisions of 
the bill would not be costly to administer. 
The memorandum pointed out that the bill included a provision 
(not in the Senate-passed bill) requiring each member bank to file a 
report on loans made under the legislation with the Comptroller of the 
Currency or the Board at the same time as reports of condition were 
made. The bill contained nothing to indicate what the reports should 
reflect, but it authorized the Board to prescribe rules and regulations 
"to effectuate the purposes" of the legislation and presumably this 
would mean the Board could decide how simple or elaborate these reports 
must be. The Committee report also said the Committee "expects that 
the Federal Reserve Board will carefully review these reports to make 
certain that member bank officers are not receiving loans on terms more 
favorable than those granted to other bank borrowers," and called for 
"a complete analysis of loans obtained under this legislation, includ-
ing the number of loans, also the total amount and the interest rate 
charged on these loans" as a part of the Board's Annual Report. 

215 
5/31/67 
-4-
Mr. Cardon had told the Committee's Staff Director that he felt 
the preparation and analysis of reports elaborate enough to carry out 
the apparent intent of the Committee would be unreasonably expensive, 
and that the prohibitions against favoritism should be enforced through 
examinations rather than through reporting requirements. 
The memorandum concluded by stating that after some discussion 
of the foregoing considerations the Committee's Staff Director had 
indicated that a compromise report on the bill would be acceptable, 
wherein it would be stated that the cost of administration would be 
negligible if each member bank were to report an aggregate total of 
the number and amount of loans made under the legislation together with 
the range of interest rates involved, and the Board, in turn, were to 
report to the Congress only the aggregate total number, total amount, 
and range of interest rates of such loans made by all member banks. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Chairman of the 
House Banking and Currency Committee. 
Governor Mitchell commented that while he thought it would be 
preferable to supervise compliance with the requirements of the proposed 
legislation through the examination process, as was being done with 
respect to the restrictions embodied in the present statute, if the 
procedure outlined in the draft letter was what the Banking and Currency 
Committee wanted he would have no particular objection. 
Governor Maisel observed that in his view the major area of 
concern with respect to member bank lending involving its executive 

2148 
5/31/67 
-5-
officers was not that of direct loans to such officials but rather 
loans to interests with which such individuals were associated in some 
manner. Thus, the reporting requirements of the proposed amendment to 
section 22(g) of the Federal Reserve Act dealt with only a small part 
of the over-all problem and might, in fact, be more of a red herring 
than an affirmative measure of control. 
Mr. Cardon replied that the reporting requirements had been 
added to the bill at the request of the Committee Chairman. The bill, 
which most of the Committee members apparently regarded originally as 
relatively inconsequential, had encountered difficulties, and the 
obvious desire of the Committee staff was to work out some formula that 
would enable the bill to be passed without further controversy. 
Governor Robertson noted that it would clearly be desirable to 
have in the record a statement, along the lines of the draft letter, 
of the Board's understanding of the administrative procedures that 
would be satisfactory. 
The letter was then approved unanimously for transmittal to 
the Chairman of the Committee; a copy is attached to these minutes as 
Item No. 3. 
Study of vault space needs (Item No. 4). There had been dis-
tributed a memorandum from the Division of Bank Operations dated May 23, 
1967, submitting the results of a study authorized by the Board in March 
1966 to determine the possibility of developing broad criteria for 

2149 
5/31/67 
-6-
appraisal of proposals by Reserve Banks to construct additional vaults. 
The report concluded that--
(1) Population, currency and coin activities, and other 
such broad indicators provide a very rough measure 
of vault space requirements, but such indicators 
would seem to have severe limitations in appraising 
the need for vault space at individual Federal 
Reserve offices. 
(2) A surprising amount of vault space at all offices 
is now devoted to aisles, working areas, and space 
not otherwise available for actual storage purposes. 
(3) The extent of vault space unavailable for actual 
storage purposes, coupled with wide variations in 
vault equipment and procedures, would seem to sug-
gest that the System could profit by a comprehen-
sive study of the possibilities for more effective 
use of existing vault space. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Reserve 
Banks requesting the views of the Presidents concerning a comprehensive 
System study of the possibilities for more effective utilization of 
vault space. 
In commenting on the proposal, Mr. Farrell noted that due to a 
variety of factors bearing on vault design and use, actual utilization 
of vault space throughout the System averaged only a fraction of total 
capacity. This fact was of considerable concern to a number of Reserve 
Bank officials with whom he had talked, and question had been raised 
whether use of new equipment and design modifications could not improve 
the situation. 
Mr. Farrell added that he felt the matter deserved study on a 
System-wide basis, including solicitation of fresh ideas from design 

2150 
5/31/67 
-7-
engineers arid consultants, and that the draft letter was calculated to 
bring about a coordinated approach to such a study. 
Governor Daane inquired about the procedure normally followed 
in raising a question for consideration by the Conference of Presidents. 
Mr. Sherman replied that the usual approach was to communicate 
suggestions to the Chairman of the Conference. However, when there was 
background material to be distributed and the proximity of a scheduled 
meeting of the Conference made time a significant factor, there was 
sometimes direct communication with the Presidents concerning the matter 
in question, concurrent with a request to the Chairman of the Conference 
that the subject be discussed at the forthcoming meeting. 
Transmittal of a letter to the Chairman of the Conference 
requesting consideration of the vault space study proposal at the June 
meeting of the Conference was then approved unanimously, with the under-
standing that copies of the letter, together with pertinent background 
material, would be sent to the Presidents of all Federal Reserve Banks. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Chairman of the Conference of Presi-
dents is attached to these minutes as Item No. 4. 
Proposed sale of Minneapolis building (Item No. 5). There had 
been circulated a memorandum dated May 18, 1967, from the Division of 
Bank Operations concerning a request from the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis that the Bank be authorized to negotiate for the sale of 
the present head office building to a local commercial bank, incident 
to plans for construction of a new Reserve Bank building. 

2151 
5/31/67 
-8-
In commenting on the request, Mr. Farrell observed that the 
existing facilities of the commercial bank interested in buying the 
Reserve Bank building were unsuitable for its purposes over the longer 
run. A real estate firm consulted by the Reserve Bank felt that a 
price of between $4 and $5 million would be realistic, and indications 
were that the prospective buyer was amenable to a figure in that range 
if possession could be assured not much beyond three years hence. How-
ever, the Reserve Bank could not negotiate for sale of its present 
building without having a commitment for a new site. It was believed 
that a suitable location could be obtained in a redevelopment area of 
downtown Minneapolis at a cost of $12 to $15 per square foot. The 
inadequacy of the security court and vault arrangements in the present 
Reserve Bank building argued in favor of constructing a new facility. 
In response to a question from Governor Robertson, Governor 
Daane said it was his recollection that somewhere between $6 and $8 
million had been spent several years ago on improvements to the present 
structure. Mr. Farrell noted that those improvements had improved some-
what the salability of the building. However, the lower floors would 
be of little use to any organization other than a bank. Governor Daane 
observed that, in view of the location of the building, the price being 
considered did not appear too high. 
Governor Maisel noted that unless the prospective purchaser 
felt that a good bargain was being made, the construction of a new 

2152 
5/31/67 
-9-
building probably would be preferred by that bank. The basic question 
seemed to be whether the Reserve Bank had good reason to move its 
operations. 
Governor Mitchell stated that he had discussed with President 
Galusha the possibility of establishing a satellite operation of the 
Res erve Bank to accommodate certain needs, but that the latter was 
opposed to any arrangement for decentralization of the Bank's functions. 
Mr. Galusha's judgment was that the present building should be sold, 
de spite the extensive improvements made rather recently, and the Bank's 
directors apparently supported that view. 
Asked whether it was clear that the Reserve Bank could not con-
tinue to operate effectively at its present location, Governor Mitchell 
replied that continued occupancy would be feasible for a time if the 
safekeeping function was automated and a satellite office for handling 
coin were to be established. But even that would perhaps be only a 
temporary solution. 
Governor Daane commented that President Galusha, an energetic 
and able person, was aggressively seeking to improve the image of 
the Minneapolis Reserve Bank in every fashion. He (Governor Daane) 
was sympathetic to the proposal under discussion if a fair price could 
be obtained for the present building and an attractive location found 
for a new one, assuming acceptance of President Galusha's judgment that 
the present building was inappropriate to the Reserve Bank's future 

2153 
5/31/67 
-10-
needs and assuming that President Galusha's judgment was supported by 
his directors. 
Governor Robertson noted that the only authority being requested 
by the Reserve Bank at this time was to negotiate with the prospective 
purchaser of the building concerning terms of sale and to find a suit-
able site for a new building. Mr. Farrell added that only preliminary 
bargaining would be involved, and the matter would be referred back to 
the Board f<pr approval before any firm commitments were undertaken. 
Governor Robertson stated that he would not like to see the 
Board placed in the position, by reason of approving the pending 
request, of being forced to approve whatever firm proposal might subse-
quently be submitted by the Reserve Bank. 
Governor Mitchell commented that the basic points really at 
issue were the price to be obtained for the old building and the cost 
of a new one. If the figures submitted were reasonable, he felt the 
Board would almost be obliged to approve them. 
Governor Robertson questioned whether it could reasonably be 
expected that construction of a new building would be completed within 
three years in order to meet the prospective purchaser's requirement 
for occupancy of the old building. Mr. Farrell stated that the time 
required within the System for construction of new buildings had aver-
aged from three to three and one-half years, and Governor Mitchell 
indicated that President Galusha was confident the requisite schedule 

215 
5/31/67 
-11-
could be met in this case. Mr. Farrell added that since the Reserve 
Bank already had alternative sites in mind for the new building, if 
the Board were to authorize the Reserve Bank to engage in negotiations, 
it appeared that preparation of site plans and specifications could be 
commenced promptly. 
Governor Mitchell observed that a System review of building 
requirements, including vault design, was now in progress. This pre-
sented a potential element of delay if the results were awaited before 
authorization to proceed with plans for a new building was given. 
Governor Maisel inquired whether the results of the study might 
not conceivably indicate ways of accomplishing substantial savings in 
future operating costs. If so, the question was whether the advantage 
of waiting until the study was completed would be outweighed by the 
possibility of not being able to realize as much from sale of the old 
building as the present prospect was willing to pay. 
Mr. Farrell described the main points being covered by the 
current study and outlined some of the tentative conclusions. In his 
view, the critical elements would be covered if plans for new buildings 
were drawn so as to permit installation of modern vault equipment to 
satisfy predictable requirements for about ten years, with a design 
allowing for subsequent lateral expansion and flexible use of office 
space above. Temporarily unneeded office space could be rented to 
other parties. It was his opinion that the vault space study would 

2155 
5/31/67 
-12-
probably not point the way to such substantial innovations that delay 
in the planning of a new building, as at Minneapolis, would result in 
a saving. 
The requested authorization was thereupon approved unanimously, 
as set forth in the letter to President Galusha attached to these 
minutes as Item No. 5. 
Magnetic ink encoding of checks (Item No. 6). There had been 
distributed copies of a proposed letter to the Presidents of all 
Federal Reserve Banks, drafted by Mr. Hackley under date of May 29, 
1967, concerning complaints received in the light of System notices 
that, effective September 1, 1967, checks without magnetic ink encoding 
would no longer be handled as cash items by the Reserve Banks. 
In commenting on the purpose of the letter, Mr. Hackley recalled 
that in August 1966, following discussion with the Reserve Banks, the 
Board had issued a press release announcing that effective September 1, 
1967, unencoded checks would not be processed as cash items. Recently 
the Reserve Banks, and apparently a number of clearinghouse associa-
tions, had been sending out circulars and issuing explanatory placards 
and brochures in an effort to prepare the public for the transition. 
Some of these materials had, unfortunately, either explicitly or implic-
itly conveyed the impression that unencoded checks would not be handled 
at all, thus generating a number of letters to the Board complaining 
that the System was seeking to dictate the type of ink, paper, or format 

2156 
5/31/67 
-13-
that must be used in order for a check to be a valid negotiable instru-
ment . 
Mr. Hackley observed that some of the materials distributed 
appeared inconsistent both with the Board's press release of August 
1966 and with the statutory requirement that obliges the Reserve Banks 
to process checks presented by member banks for collection. The pro-
posed letter was calculated to apprise the Reserve Banks of the problem 
that had arisen and to seek their cooperation in avoiding adverse pub-
lic reaction by careful handling of inquiries or complaints received. 
It was a matter of judgment, however, whether such a letter was needed. 
Governor Daane inquired whether it was felt that a more affirma-
tive action than was proposed in the draft letter should be taken, per-
haps by issuing a clarifying press release. If there was sufficient 
public misunderstanding to warrant a cautionary letter to the Reserve 
Banks, that indicated that some positive step might be called for. 
Governor Mitchell expressed the view that there was no signifi-
cant degree of misunderstanding and that a letter was not needed. A 
survey made by the Reserve Banks in January 1967 showed that some 3 per 
cent of transit items handled were nonmachinable, but the most recent 
sampling indicated this volume was down to 0.6 per cent or less in some 
districts. He was apprehensive about emphasizing noncash treatment of 
nonconforming items, because that could interfere with further progress. 
Mr. Farrell expressed the view that the proposed letter might 
be misunderstood by the Reserve Banks. He knew of no instances where 

215 
5/31/67 
-14-
information put out by Reserve Banks had been technically incorrect, 
although the impression may have been given that the Reserve Banks 
were not going to handle unencoded checks. 
Messrs. Hackley and Sherman cited certain notices that they 
felt could have led to a misunderstanding on the part of the public. 
There followed discussion of the extent to which the use of 
unencoded checks were likely to continue, with factors mentioned that 
might prolong or, on the other hand, discourage their further use. 
Mr. Sherman said that some of the Presidents were already 
familiar with the type of reply that was being sent to complaints 
received at the Board's offices. One purpose in sending out a letter 
of the type proposed would be to put all of the Presidents on notice. 
He added that several of the Presidents appeared to feel that there was 
a problem. However, it might be that no letter was necessary. 
Governor Mitchell mentioned that at the forthcoming meeting of 
the Conference the Presidents were going to consider the question of 
instituting a charge for the collection of nonmachinable checks, and 
Mr. Farrell said he understood that the Subcommittee on Collections 
was recommending against imposing such a charge. 
Governor Daane then suggested that a letter be sent asking the 
Chairman of the Conference to put the subject of public misunderstand-
ing on the agenda, with a paragraph of explanation as to why that 
request was being made. This would flag the problem for all of the 
Presidents and provide an opportunity for discussion. 

2158 
5/31/67 
-15-
Governor Robertson commented that the Federal Reserve should 
never issue a notice that was inconsistent with the requirements of 
the statute, no matter what the goals were. It appeared to him that 
if an appropriate letter to the Conference Chairman requesting discus-
sion at the next meeting of the Conference would result in avoiding 
embarrassment due to differences between letters going out of the 
Board's offices and positions taken by Reserve Banks, everything neces-
sary would be achieved. 
Governor Robertson then proposed that a letter be sent to the 
Conference Chairman requesting consideration of the matter at the next 
meeting of the Conference, with adequate explanation of the reason, 
and it was agreed that that should be done. Attached as Item No. 6 is 
a copy of the letter subsequently sent to Chairman Swan. 
Either at this point or earlier, several of the staff members 
not concerned with the following topic withdrew from the meeting. 
St. Louis salary structure. There had been distributed a memo-
randum from the Division of Personnel Administration dated May 26, 1967, 
regarding a request from the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis for 
approval of proposed increases in the employee salary structures for 
all four offices in that District effective July 1, 1967. The Division 
recommended favorably. 
In reviewing the matter Mr. Johnson brought out that the perti-
nent local wage surveys had been conducted in February 1967. The 

2159 
5/31/67 
-16-
proposed changes in the salary structures would bring the mid-points 
about 2 per cent, on average, above the February market level in the 
middle and higher grades, which covered the majority of the employees. 
This was because the Reserve Bank had provided "head room" of 2 per 
cent to allow for the five-month lag between survey date and effective 
date. If the Board agreed that such a lag factor should properly be 
included, the Personnel Division contemplated advising other Reserve 
Banks that were now preparing proposed salary structure revisions. It 
was the Division's recommendation that the lag factor be included. 
Governor Maisel recalled that for a year or more he had been 
urging that the whole salary administration plan be re-examined. 
Whereas the policy had been to lag the market a little, now it was 
being recommended that the Reserve Banks lead the market. In his 
opinion, that would be an improper posture for a central bank. The 
net effect would be to add 2 per cent above what would have been 
allowed under previous policy. 
Governor Daane said he saw the proposal as simply an attempt 
to recognize the lag between survey date and implementation of the 
survey results. If the lag factor was not recognized, the Reserve 
Banks would be losing ground. 
Mr. Johnson commented that the purpose of updating the salary 
structures was to enable the Reserve Banks to pay what the community 
market required in order to attract and retain personnel. If the lag 

2160 
5/31/67 
-17-
factor was not recognized, the effective date of the revised salary-
structure would find the Reserve Banks below the market. 
Governor Maisel, however, expressed the view that acceptance 
of the St. Louis proposal would involve a major policy change. It was 
not an incidental matter, although it may have been presented as such. 
The Personnel Division had not presented to the Board the basic ques-
tion of what constituted a proper posture in regard to Reserve Bank 
salaries. For the past several years a certain policy had been fol-
lowed, and now a policy was being recommended that would in effect 
authorize a further 2 per cent increase in Reserve Bank salaries. He 
understood fully the reasons why Reserve Banks would seek to include a 
"head room" allowance, but a major question of policy was involved. 
Mr. Johnson observed that in periods when salaries appeared to 
be levelling off generally, such an allowance might not be necessary. 
The situation had not become acute until about the past year or so. 
Now, however, the fact of generally rising salaries must be recognized, 
and it seemed appropriate to make allowance for it. 
Governor Maisel reiterated that the Board was being asked to 
act on what amounted to a major change in policy. He felt that the 
Board, if it acquiesced, would be endorsing an inflationary wage 
system, which would be a serious charge against a central bank. He 
repeated that he had urged for a year or more that the Board look into 
the whole salary administration program. 

2161 
5/31/67 
-18-
Asked what action he would recommend on the St. Louis proposal, 
Governor Maisel said that he would reject the inflationary factor 
embodied in it. Then he would raise the whole question of what consti-
tuted a logical salary administration policy for the central banking 
system. If the Reserve Banks lagged the market, that admittedly 
created certain problems, but the existence of a situation in which 
no firm was willing to lag the market was one of the major causes of 
inflation. 
Governor Daane commented on the disadvantage at which the 
Reserve Banks would be placed if their salary structures lagged the 
community markets. He deplored any inflationary aspect, but he doubted 
whether the Federal Reserve could reasonably do much more, while attempt-
ing to maintain appropriate personnel standards, than try to keep abreast 
of the local markets. 
Governor Maisel repeated that he considered the whole problem 
of wage policy a major question that should be re-examined. 
Governor Mitchell noted that in the past the Reserve Banks had 
conducted wage surveys and used the results as a means of keeping on a 
comparable basis with community salaries. Now an additional factor was 
being injected. He indicated that he was inclined to agree with Gover-
nor Maisel's position. 
Governor Daane said that he might be willing to go along if 
wage surveys were made more frequently, and Governor Mitchell commented 

2182 
5/31/67 
-19-
that separation rates were a significant indicator. He had not seen 
evidence of any great change in the past couple of years. 
Governor Robertson said he understood, then, that Governors 
Mitchell and Maisel would accept the February survey of the St. Louis 
Bank as the basis for establishment of revised salary structures at 
the head office and branches, without any allowance for the lag between 
survey date and effective date. 
Governor Maisel commented that this would be his suggestion for 
handling the specific case, but that he would urge a re-examination of 
the whole question of salary administration philosophy. He would not 
change policy at this particular point. 
Governor Daane said that he would accept the inclusion of the 
lag factor because he felt that otherwise the Reserve Banks would be 
placed at a further disadvantage in terms of attracting competent 
personnel. 
Governor Sherrill stated that he was not in favor of making 
allowance for the "head room," and Governor Robertson said that he 
was not either. 
Governor Robertson then said he understood the consensus to be 
that the St. Louis proposal should be revised to establish the salary 
structures on the basis of the February survey, without inclusion of 
the lag factor. 
Mr. Johnson noted that that would mean sending the recommended 
salary structures back to the St. Louis Bank with a request that the 

2163 
5/31/67 
-20-
directors of the Bank be asked to submit for approval revised structures 
that would average 2 per cent less than those currently recommended. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether the St. Louis Bank had 
initiated the suggestion that the 2 per cent Irhead room" be added. 
Mr. Johnson said the Personnel Division had not solicited it. 
However, the Reserve Banks were becoming anxious, and he concurred in 
their opinion that it was necessary to keep the structures on the 
market. He went on to say that the salary administration program, when 
instituted, was premised on the theory that the Reserve Bank salary 
structures should be somewhat above those of progressive employers in 
the local markets. In recent years, when it appeared that salaries 
were levelling off generally, the Reserve Banks had been asked to stay 
just about on the market. Now the Reserve Banks wanted at least to 
take account of the lag factor in view of rising salaries in their 
respective areas. 
Governor Robertson inquired whether data on turnover rates at 
the Reserve Banks were available. When Mr. Johnson stated that the 
turnover rate of the St. Louis Bank had been higher recently than that 
of any other Reserve Bank except Dallas, at least in terms of head 
offices, Governor Mitchell replied that such information should be made 
available by offices and by grades, for it might be found that the 
problem was concentrated in particular localities or grades. 
Governor Daane commented that the basic question involved was 
the ability to attract and retain competent personnel throughout the 

21.61 
5/31/67 
-21-
System. He felt that the question of the validity of Governor Maisel's 
philosophy should be deferred for consideration by a full Board if 
possible. Among other things, consideration should be given to more 
frequent wage surveys. He still believed firmly that the System was 
not keeping even with the market. 
Governor Maisel said that, since a change in policy was being 
suggested, it was his view that discussion of it should be based on 
facts related to the various local markets, with appropriate tests 
made along the lines Governor Mitchell had indicated. 
Governor Sherrill also said that he would like to see such a 
study. The reason he did not favor the allowance of "head room," he 
explained, was that it seemed to imply two different standards of 
salary administration. He doubted whether it was a sound principle to 
take a national factor and inject it into the establishment of struc-
tures based essentially on local market comparisons. 
Governor Robertson observed, with respect to the St. Louis 
situation, that the Board might be doing the Bank a disservice by forc-
ing the Bank to conform to the February survey if it developed that the 
Bank had the highest rate of turnover in the System. He suggested that 
the Personnel Division develop information on turnover in recent years 
by grade and by office in order that the whole problem might be reviewed 
at an early date. This meant that a decision on the St. Louis matter 
would be deferred until after the Board had made such a review. 

21 
5/31/67 
-22-
There was general agreement with this suggestion. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's notes: Attached as Item No. 7 
is a copy of a letter sent today to Chairman 
Sparkman of the Senate Banking and Currency 
Committee in reply to his request for a report 
on S. 1659, a bill to amend the Investment Com-
pany Act of 1940, as amended, and the Investment 
Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to define the 
equitable standards governing relationships be-
tween investment companies and their investment 
advisers and principal underwriters, and for 
other purposes. The letter was similar to the 
letter sent by the Board to Chairman Staggers 
of the House Interstate and Foreign Commerce 
Committee on May 26, 1967, with respect to 
H.R. 9510. 
Attached as Item No. 8 is a copy of a letter 
sent today, with the approval of Governor 
Robertson, to Harbeson Hough Livingston & 
Larson authorizing their entering into a con-
tract with Mueser, Rutledge, Wentworth & 
Johnston, New York, New York, to provide ser-
vices as soil consultants in connection with 
the annex building project at an estimated 
cost of $17,300. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board memoranda recommending the fol-
lowing actions relating to the Board's staff: 
Appointments 
Mary Eileen Moyer as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 
Bruce Donaldson Randolph as Stenographer, Division of Personnel 
Administration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,936, effec-
tive the date of entrance upon duty. 
Dianne Robertson as Stenographer, Division of Personnel Adminis-
tration, with basic annual salary at the rate of $4,269, effective the 
date of entrance upon duty. 

2166 
5/31/67 
-23-
Transfer 
Ann Roane Clary, from the position of Assistant Chief Librarian 
to the position of Chief Librarian, Division of Research and Statistics, 
with an increase in basic annual salary from $9,536 to $10,927, effec-
tive June 1, 1967. 
Maternity leave 
Landonia Ann Jones, Stenographer, Division of Examinations, begin-
ning the close of business June 16, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Denise Blackburn, Statistical Assistant, Division of International 
Finance, effective the close of business June 16, 1967. 
John C. Chisolm, Cafeteria Laborer, Division of Administrative 
Services, effective the close of business May 26, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today noted on behalf 
of the Board a memorandum advising that 
Robert H. Craft, Senior Computer Opera-
tor, Division of Data Processing, had 
filed application for retirement effec-
tive June 3, 1967. 

2167 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
5/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P Q N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B Q A R O 
May 31, 1967 
The Honorable William B. Camp, 
The Comptroller of the Currency, 
Treasury Department, 
Washington, D. C. 20220 
Dear Mr. Camp: 
It is respectfully requested that you place an 
order with the Bureau of Engraving and Printing for printing 
9,600,000 Federal Reserve notes (single units) of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston in the $1 denomination during 
the fiscal year ending June 30, 1967. This is a supplemental 
printing and would amend the quantities requested in the 
Board's letter of June 29, 1966. 
Respectfully, 
, /.-:.;ill''/ 
CIU" 
C.'-.-ii V.w 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

2168 
BDARD • F GOVERNORS 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C n R R C B P D N D L N t J E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
Nay 31, 1967 
Dear Sir: 
As you know, it is customary to hold a conference of 
Reserve Bank officials of bank examination departments in con-
junction with the Annual Convention of the National Association 
of Supervisors of State Banks (NASSB). The 1967 Convention is 
scheduled to be held in Louisville, Kentucky, from August 14 to 
Aurust 18 1967. A meeting of bank examination personnel is being 
scheduled'from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on August 15 at the Brown Hotel. 
The vice presidents in charge of examinations are being 
requested to submit topics to be included on the agenda for the 
meeting, When this agenda has been completed, a copy together 
with a°list of those attending the convention, will be forwarded 
to you. 
Very truly yours, 
CA^-V V v C.^i^/") 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
TO THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS. 

52169 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
5 Y 5 T E M 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C. 
c ? 0 5 5 l 
O F T H E 
O F F I C E 
OF T H E V I C E 
C H A I R M A N 
Item No. 3 
5/31/67 
June 1, 1967 
The Honorable Wright Patman, Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
House of Representatives, 
Washington, D. C. 
20515 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
enactment, of H.R. 9682 as reported by your Committee would result 
in additional administrative expenses. The first section of the 
bill would revise provisions of existing law governing .the 
conditions under which banks that are members of the Federal 
Reserve System may make loans to their executive officers. The 
only provision in this section that could have any appreciable 
impact on administrative expenses, in our judgment, is paragraph 
(9) on page 4, which requires each member bank to file a report 
of all such loans with the appropriate Federal supervisory agency. 
The committee report on the bill states that the Board of Governors 
is to include in its annual report to the Congress an analysis of 
these reports received from member banks, including the number of 
loans, total amount, and the interest rate charged on the loans. 
The committee report also states that the Board will 
be expected to review these reports to make certain that the 
loans involved are on terms not more favorable than those granted 
to other borrowers. We do not see how this could be done without 
requiring reports so elaborate that the expense of preparing and 
analyzing the reports would be prohibitive. We believe that the 
effective and economical way to enforce the prohibition against 
a bank's making more favorable loans to its own officers is 
through the examination process, rather than through reports to 
be filed with the Board. 
On" the basis of conversations in which the Board's staff 
has explored these questions with your committee's staff, we now 
understand that the reporting requirements will be satisfied if 
each member bank simply reports the total number and total amount 
You have asked for the Board's views as to whether 

The Honorable Wright Patnian 
- 2 -
2170 
of loans it makes under the legislation and the range of interest 
rates involved, and the Board reports to the Congress the total 
number and total amount of loans made by all member banks under 
the legislation and the range of interest rates involved in the 
total. We assume that that is your intent and we accordingly 
advise that expenses of administering the bill would be negligible 
Our comments are limited to the first section of the 
bill because section 2, relating to Federal credit unions, is 
outside the area of the Board's responsibility. 
Sincerely, 
(Signed) J. L. Robertson 
J. L. Robertson 

cot 
BOARD OK G O V E R N O R S 
A R 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
2171 
Item No. 1 
5/31/67 
A D O N E S i S 
C i r r i C I A L 
C C l ^ R E B P C N O C N C E 
T U 
T H E 
B O A R D 
AL Rt 
June 2, 1967. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
c/o Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board's letter of April 26, 1967, mentioned the need for 
studies of vault planning and other related matters for the purpose 
of developing improved guidelines for planning new buildings. 
Enclosed are three copies of a report of a study by the 
Division of Bank Operations of existing vault space at each Federal 
Reserve Bank and Branch. This report notes that, a surprising amount 
of vault space at all offices is now devoted to aisles, working 
areas, and space not otherwise available for actual storage purposes, 
and the conclusion is reached that the System could profit by a 
comprehensive study of the possibilities for more effective use of 
vault space. 
The Board feels that such a study would be consistent with, 
and could be part of, the broad program outlined in its letter of 
April 26, 1967. Accordingly, it would appreciate your having this 
topic placed on the agenda for the forthcoming meeting of the Conference 
of Presidents, with a view to obtaining the views of the Conference 
regarding this suggestion and, specifically, how such a study might be 
under taken. 
Copies of this letter and of the report of the study by the 
Division of Bank Operations arc being seiu directly to each President, 
partly because of the bulk of the contents and partly to permit each 
of the Reserve. Banks additional time, with which to review the results 
of the study. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enc1osure 

V'V ,v 
fS 
o ? >70 
.JL. ' 
• / v i j s ^ v . 
• //V,. • 
' -o ' 
\ 
- . 
m 
w f i i t ^ -
BOARD D F GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
5/31/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
May 31, 1967. 
Mr. Hugh D. Galusha, Jr., President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota. 55440 
Dear Mr. Galusha: 
• • 
This refers to your letters of March 30 and 
May 3, 1967, concerning building problems, possible sale 
of the present bank premises of the Minneapolis Reserve 
Bank, and acquisition of property for a new building. 
In view of the circumstances, the Board will 
interpose no objection to the sale of the Bank's property 
as outlined in your May 3 letter. Also, the Board is 
prepared to give prompt consideration to the acquisition 
of property to be used as a site for a new building, 
whenever the Minneapolis Bank cares to submit a specific 
recommendation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

173 
OGARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 6 
5/31/67 
f l i P 
A D O R E 3 S 
O F f l C I A L 
C O H R E S P D N D f 
N C E 
TO T H E 
K O A R U 
June 2, 1967. 
Mr. Eliot J. Swan, Chairman, 
Conference of Presidents, 
/o Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California. 94120 
Dear Mr. Swan: 
The Board has received a number of letters, including 
some from members of Congress, complaining about notices to the 
effect that, effective September 1, 1967, the Reserve Banks will 
not handle checks that do not bear the magnetic ink characters 
prescribed by the American Bankers Association. 
Several of the 
letters have interpreted such notices as meaning that the System 
is attempting to dictate the type of ink that must be used on 
checks and as having a bearing upon the legal validity of checks. 
The Board's replies have sought to explain that the System's 
action does not in any sense affect the validity of checks or 
require that any type of ink be used. They have also indicated 
that non-qualified checks will continue to be processed by the 
Reserve Banks, but that such items will require special, handling 
that will involve considerable delay in collection and which may 
result in special changes. Copies of the Board's press statement 
of August 5, 1966, have also been furnished as part of the 
explanation of the reasons for the System's action, 
A copy of a recent reply from the Board to one of these 
inquiries is enclosed for your information. The Board assumes 
that the Reserve Banks will wish to respond to similar inquiries 
that: they may receive in a manner consistent with the responses 
being made by the Board. Since there no doubt will be some 
discussion at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents on 
June 19 of recent developments in this area, the Board would be 
glad to have the benefit of any comments or suggestions that the 
Presidents may care to make regarding the progress of the program 
outlined in the Board's letter of March 8, 1967, and of the 
reaction of commercial banks and the general public thereto. 
Sincerely yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Mcrritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclosure 

9-4 
s > 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , • . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
Item No. 1 
5/31/67 
'cv- • 
L 
• • 
O F F I C E 
O F T H E VICE". C H A 
R M A N 
May 31, 1967 
The Honorable John Sparkman, 
Chairman, 
Committee on Banking and Currency, 
United States Senate, 
Washington, D. C. 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
This is in reply to your request for a report on S. 1659, 
a bill to amend the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended, and 
the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended, to define the 
equitable standards governing relationships between.investment 
companies and their investment advisers and principal underwriters, 
and for other purposes. 
While the chief thrust of the bill is outside the area of 
the Board's responsibility, the Board is concerned with promoting 
the kinds of savings flows required for economic growth. Findings 
of a survey of mutual fund investors prepared for the Securities 
and Exchange Commission at the Wharton School of the University of 
Pennsylvania suggest that current selling practices can result 
in mutual funds being sold to some persons for whom they are not 
an appropriate savings or investment medium and may lead to 
instability of savings. To the extent that the present bill 
would tend to correct this situation and shift the relative 
emphasis to areas where mutual funds can contribute most effectively 
in mobilizing savings to meet expanding needs for capital, the 
Board believes the proposals merit careful consideration. 
Sincerely, 

2175 
BDARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F THE: 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 8 
5/31/67 
<<v , 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R f i E S P O N D E N 
1 D T i l E BOA 1? D 
May 31, 1967. 
Mr. William H. Livingston, Jr., 
Harbeson Hough Livingston & Larson, 
Architects Building, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 19103 
Dear Mr. Livingston: 
On the basis of your progress report dated May 19, 
1967, listing proposals of selected Soil Consultants and your 
letter of May 25, 1967, recommending that the firm of Meuser-
Rutledge-Wentworth and Johnson be engaged to provide this 
service at their estimated cost of $17,300, compared with your 
estimate of $18,000 for this item in your analysis of costs 
dated December 9, 1966, you are hereby authorized to enter 
into an agreement with said firm on the basis outlined in 
their letter to you dated May 4, 1967. 
With reference to Paragraph 2 of their letter, it 
is our understanding that you prefer, and we concur, that 
they contract directly with the boring contractor. 
It is further understood that statements subject 
to your receipt and approval will be forwarded to the Board 
for payment. 
Very truly 
erman, 
Secretary. 
