Minutes for August 16, 1967 
To: 
Members of the Board 
From: 
Office of the Secretary 
•:..'. s
1 
Attached is a copy of the minutes of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System on 
the above date. 
It is not proposed to include a statement 
with respect to any of the entries in this set of 
minutes in the record of policy actions required to 
be maintained pursuant to section 10 of the Federal 
Reserve Act. 
Should you have any question with regard 
to the minutes, it will be appreciated if you will 
advise the Secretary's Office. Otherwise, please 
initial below. If you were present at the meeting, 
your initials will indicate approval of the minutes. 
If you were not present, your initials will indicate 
only that you have seen the minutes. 
Chairman Martin 
Governor Robertson 
Governor Mitchell 
Governor Daane 
Governor Maisel 
Governor Brimmer 
Governor Sherrill 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, August 16, 1967. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Maisel 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sherrill 
. 
Mr. Sherman, Secretary 
Mr. Kenyon, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Brill, Senior Adviser to the Board and 
Director, Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Molony, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Legislative Counsel 
Mr. Fauver, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Hackley, General Counsel 
Mr. Byrne, Director, Division of Data Processing 
Mr. Hexter, Associate General Counsel 
Messrs. O'Connell and Hooff, Assistant General 
Counsel 
Mr. Partee, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Messrs. Egertson and Sidman, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Examinations 
Messrs. Langham and Rhinehart, Assistant Directors, 
Division of Data Processing 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Messrs. Kulig and Sanders of the Legal Division 
Messrs. Ettin, Golden, Kichline, Sarfati, Shull, 
and Wiles of the Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Miss McShane and Messrs. Burton, Hill, Lyon, and 
Maguire of the Division of Examinations 
Investment in bank premises (Item No. 1). Unanimous approval 
W a s given to a letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
aPproving an investment in bank premises and noting the bank's plan to 
increase its capital funds. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 

3218 
8/16/67 
-2-
Call report questions. There had been distributed a memorandum 
dated August 11, 1967, from the Division of Research and Statistics rec-
ommending the addition of special questions on the fall call report to 
obtain information on bank credit card and check credit operations. 
Collection of this information seemed desirable because of the consid-
erable interest in the spread of credit card banking on the part of 
members of Congress as well as within the Federal banking agencies. 
The information also would contribute significantly to the study of 
bank credit cards being conducted by the System's task group. 
The proposed questions, which were set forth in an attachment 
to the memorandum, had been developed by the task group and accepted by 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Comptroller of the 
Currency for inclusion in their fall call reports. Important additional 
information available from the proposed questions would include: 
sep-
arate data for credit cards and check credit plans, a distinction between 
a bank's own plans and franchise or license arrangements, the extent to 
which banks were operating as agents without retaining any credit bal-
ances, and the extent to which banks had more than one plan in operation. 
Governor Brimmer commented that he had urged adding the ques-
tions to the call report, principally because it appeared that informa-
tion expected to be obtained from the current reporting series the task 
group was hopeful of instituting might not be available before December, 
Perhaps January. In the meantime, the task group needed much more 

8/16/67 
-3-
information than was currently available if it was to prepare a compre-
hensive report. 
The addition of the proposed questions to the call report was 
) i ' . . • . 
; 
approved unanimously. 
Interest rate data. Governor Robertson spoke of the need for 
up-to-date interest rate information in connection with forthcoming 
hearings in regard to the proposed extension of the temporary interest 
rate ceiling legislation (Public Law 89-597), which would expire Sep-
tember 21, 1967. He inquired about the prospect for having such infor-
mation available. 
The staff described the schedule according to which it had been 
contemplated that the time and savings deposit survey being made as of 
July 31, 1967, would be processed, along with possibilities for expedit 
ing that work. It appeared that data from the survey could be made 
available if testimony were given during the week of September 11, but 
that the data could not be provided much earlier. 
Suggestions were made with regard to the possibility of obtain-
ing partial data by means of a spot check should hearings be scheduled 
a t an earlier date than anticipated. However, it was agreed that it 
would be preferable if the results of the July survey could be processe 
in time for the hearings. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the 
staff would take whatever steps seemed most appropriate to insure the 

3220 
8/16/67 
-4-
availability of current data when the testimony was required to be 
given. 
Secretary's Note: After staff discussion 
following the meeting, a wire was sent to 
the Federal Reserve Banks containing in-
structions for expediting the processing 
of the July survey. 
Messrs. Byrne, Langham, Rhinehart, Ettin, and Sarfati then 
withdrew from the meeting. 
Branch application (Item No. 2). There had been distributed 
memoranda dated August 11 and 14, 1967, respectively, from the Legal 
Division and the Division of Examinations regarding the application of 
Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Winston-Salem, North Carolina, to 
establish a branch in Graham. The bank's similar application to the 
State Banking Commission had been approved despite the opposition of 
three banks, including First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina, 
Jacksonville, and North State Bank of Burlington. An appeal by the 
latter bank from the Banking Commission's decision, now pending in the 
Superior Court of Wake County, involved questions bearing upon the 
legality of the Commission's action. There was pending in the United 
States District Court in North Carolina a petition by First National 
Bank of Eastern North Carolina for modification of a decree by that 
Court enjoining the Comptroller of the Currency from authorizing First 
National to establish a branch in Graham. 

8/16/67 
-5-
Both North State Bank and First National Bank had filed protest 
against Wachovia's application to the Board, and First National Bank 
had presented its arguments in an informal hearing at the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond. Both protests asserted that it would be pre-
mature for the Board to act at this time on the application. The pro-
test of North State Bank, in particular, requested that the Board defer 
action until both of the pending court actions were decided. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, on the basis of a compre-
hensive analysis, recommended that the Board defer action pending deter 
mination of the legality of State approval of the Wachovia application, 
but expressed the belief that there was no necessity for the Board to 
await the outcome of the litigation involving First National Bank's 
application to establish a branch in Graham. 
The Legal Division and the Division of Examinations agreed with 
the Reserve Bank. The Legal Division believed that a delay pending the 
outcome of the litigation in the State courts would be a natural cor-
relative to the Board's usual requirement that a branch application be 
passed upon by State authorities prior to consideration by the Board. 
If it was appropriate for the Board to await State action (and the 
Propriety of that delay had never been seriously questioned), it was 
equally appropriate to await the outcome of a contest to determine the 
validity of State action. Moreover, the appeal had raised serious and 
Previously undecided questions about the procedure employed by the 

' ? o o o 
8/16/67 
-6-
Commission in reaching its decision. Therefore, it seemed possible 
that the Court would determine that there had been no valid State 
approval of Wachovia's application. Under these circumstances, even 
if there had been no protest, consideration of the application by the 
Board would appear premature. 
As to the request for delay of Board action pending the outcome 
of the other litigation, the Legal Division noted that neither Wachovia, 
the State Commission, nor the Board were parties to that action, and 
therefore they could not be bound by the Court's determination. A 
number of other considerations were presented in the Legal Division's 
memorandum in support of the view that the Board need not defer its 
decision on that account. 
Attached to the memorandum was a draft of letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Governor Mitchell inquired whether, since it was understood that 
both the Board's staff and the 
Reserve Bank would recommend approval of 
the Wachovia branch application on its merits, there was any reason why 
the Board should not approve at this time subject to sustainment of the 
State Banking Commission's action. 
Mr. O'Connell replied that even if the condition were attached, 
the course suggested would constitute action on the branch application. 
Under the Public Information Act, the public could obtain knowledge 
that the Board had acted prior to determination of the court case. 

3223 
8/16/67 
-8-
Governor Brimmer observed that the fact of approval by the 
Board, if it became known to the applicant, might be used in an effort 
to strengthen the case for finding the State Banking Commission's action 
valid. Therefore, a posture of neutrality seemed to him preferable. 
Further discussion developed a consensus in favor of the staff 
recommendation, but there was agreement with a change suggested by 
Governor Robertson in the language of the draft letter. 
The letter was then approved unanimously in the form attached 
as Item No. 2. 
Application of Detroit Bank and Trust Company. Governor 
Mitchell referred to the discussion at the meeting on July 27, 1967, 
when, since the six members of the Board then present (all except 
Governor Daane) appeared to be evenly divided in their views, it was 
agreed to defer a decision regarding the application of The Detroit 
Bank and Trust Company, Detroit, Michigan, to merge Commercial State 
Bank of Roseville, Roseville, Michigan. The understanding had been 
that the case would be given further consideration and a vote taken 
when all seven members of the Board could be present. However, the 
availability of a full Board was not in prospect for some time. 
After discussion of possibilities for expediting the matter, 
Governor Robertson suggested that the staff be asked to draft two state-
ments, one supporting approval and the other denial. According to the 
expressions at the July 27 meeting, it would apparently be necessary 

3224 
8/16/67 
-9-
in any event to prepare two statements. Then when all members were 
available, the vote on the case could be taken. 
It was understood that the course suggested by Governor 
Robertson would be followed. 
Messrs. Hooff and Hill then withdrew from the meeting. 
Application of Southeast Bancorporation. On August 14, 1967, 
the Board gave preliminary consideration to the application of Southeast 
Bancorporation, Inc., Miami, Florida, to become a bank holding company 
through acquisition of substantially all of the voting shares of The 
First National Bank of Miami, Coral Way National Bank, Miami, and Curtis 
National Bank of Miami Springs. Action was deferred pending exploration 
by the staff of various questions raised by members of the Board, and 
it was understood that the staff would explore the possibility of arrang 
ing meetings of the Board with the Comptroller of the Currency as well a 
representatives of First National Bank. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated August 15, 
1967, from the Division of Examinations submitting further information 
in response to questions that had been raised, principally by Governor 
Maisel. on the premium proposed to be paid for the stock of Curtiss 
National Bank and on merger and holding company cases previously con-
sidered by the Board in which the premium had been high. 
Governor Robertson stated that after the August 14 meeting a 
Member of the staff had talked with the Comptroller of the Currency 

••tfi:}*'- ' 
8/16/67 
-10-
3226 
Governor Robertson responded that when it developed that a meet-
ing would not be held with the Comptroller, the staff reported to him 
before proceeding further. If the Board was prepared to approve the 
„ 
, 
application, a meeting with First National Bank representatives appar-
ently would serve no purpose; if the Board was inclined to disapprove, 
r r 
j 
the bank could be given an opportunity to appear. Therefore, it had 
seemed desirable to bring the matter back to the Board at this stage. 
Governor Brimmer observed that the factors of concentration and 
competition admittedly would be inconsistent with approval. 
Therefore, 
if the application was approved, such action would have to be taken on 
the basis of the banking factors. The Board's statement would have to 
Board's statement dealing with Curtiss National Bank's condition could 
best be developed. Much of the pertinent information presumably would 
have to come from reports of examination, thus raising the question of 
recognize the anticompetit ive aspects but state that they were regarded 
as outweighed by other factors. He inquired how the portion of the 
the extent to which it would be possible to substantiate the statement 
Mr. O'Connell responded that the Board was entitled to rely 
heavily on the primary supervisor's opinion regarding the condition of 
the bank. The Board of course had access to examination reports and 
could reach an independent judgment. Basically, however, if any liti-
gation should result from approval of the application, the courts could 
by the Comptroller that an emergency situation existed. 

3 2 2 7 
8/16/67 
-11-
be expected to uphold the Board's reliance on the judgment of the Comp-
troller. 
Governor Maisel observed that in 1962 an application by a group 
of banks in Florida, including First National Bank of Miami, to form a 
bank holding company had been denied by the Board, primarily on the 
grounds of concentration and adverse competitive effects. He inquired 
about the relevance of that decision to the present case. 
In response, the staff brought out that the earlier application 
involved four large banks, thus emphasizing the factor of concentration. 
If the Board were to approve the present application, the factor of 
concentration could be explicitly recognized in the Board's statement, 
but the banking factors could be cited as overriding. 
Mr. Hackley expressed the view that the Board was not obliged 
to go so far as to base approval on the probability of failure of 
Curt iss National Bank. Approval could be given, despite even a sub-
stantial lessening of competition, if that circumstance was clearly 
outweighed by other considerations, and he believed a statement in sup-
Port of approval could be developed satisfactorily in those terms. He 
a l s o noted that the bank holding company application form puts appli-
cants on notice that although the confidentiality of material submitted 
a s such will normally be respected, when an action by the Board makes 
it necessary to use confidential information in the Board's statement, 
the Board may do so without notice to the applicant. Of course, 

3228 
8/16/67 
-12-
statements based on such information would be cast in as restrained 
terms as possible consistent with the need to support the action. 
The members of the Board then stated their views, beginning 
with Governor Mitchell, who said that the present proposal was not a 
pleasant alternative. However, he did not think there was any choice 
but to accept the judgment of the Comptroller and the staff recommenda-
tion. He did not believe the anticompetitive effects were as serious 
as they appeared on the surface. A substantial proportion of the 
deposits of First National Bank of Miami consisted of interbank depos-
its, a situation reflecting the fact that over the years the bank had 
been rendering what was essentially a Federal Reserve function in the 
Miami area. 
Governor Daane said that, since he saw no alternative, he would 
accept the staff recommendation. 
Governor Maisel stated that he also would follow the recommenda-
tion. However, he would want to see the anticompetitive effects stressed 
in the Board's statement along with the premium being offered for the 
stock of Curtiss National Bank, which afforded a clear indication of the 
value attached to a monopolistic situation. He would also like to see 
the statement recognize whatever anticompetitive dangers might be seen 
as holding over from the earlier application that the Board had denied. 
The statement could then indicate that only because of the emergency 
situation involving Curtiss National Bank did the Board conclude that 

22B 
8/16/67 
-13-
th e anticompetitive considerations were outweighed in the public 
interest. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would approve. He would 
stress in the Board's statement that the competitive factor was adverse 
but was outweighed by the prospect of failure of Curtiss National Bank, 
with citation not only of the Comptroller's view but information drawn 
from other sources as necessary. He believed it should be made clear 
also that the Board realized the implications of the high premium being 
paid, but nevertheless had approved the application because the public 
interest would be served by allowing Curtiss National Bank to continue 
in operation. 
Governor Sherrill expressed the view that the proposed trans-
action would be in the public interest because it would eliminate a 
serious weakness of long standing in the Miami banking structure. 
Governor Robertson said that he would vote not to approve. The 
Proposed transaction would provide a short-run solution to a banking 
Problem, but it contained long-range disadvantages. 
In response to a question by Governor Daane whether he saw any 
other possible solution, Governor Robertson commented that before he 
could vote for approval he would want to be satisfied that there was no 
°ther solution. He could not believe that none existed. Curtiss National 
Bank was located in an area where the potential for profitable operations 
was great. First National Bank of Miami had lent a substantial amount 

3 2 3 . H 
8/16/67 
-14-
of money to the majority stockholder of Curtiss National, and in order 
to protect its interests had had its own management in the bank for 
several months. Therefore, he was not completely persuaded by the 
claim that an emergency situation existed at the present time and hasty 
action was required. He could not believe there were not other parties 
who would be glad to invest money in the bank. 
In response to an inquiry, Governor Robertson confirmed that 
his vote "not to approve" meant that he would be recorded as voting 
against the application in the Board's order. However, his statement 
in support of his vote would be cast in terms of "not approving" the 
application rather than denial. 
The application of Southeast Bancorporation was thereupon 
approved. Governor Robertson dissenting. It was understood that an 
order and statement reflecting this action would be drafted for the 
Board's consideration, and that a statement by Governor Robertson also 
would be prepared. 
Messrs. O'Connell, Burton, Lyon, Maguire, Golden, and Shull 
then withdrew, as did Miss McShane. 
Revenue bond underwriting. 
In March 1967 Chairman Sparkman of 
the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency requested the Board's views 
0ri S. 1306, a bill that would provide limited authority for commercial 
hanks to underwrite and deal in revenue bonds. Response to that request 
W a s held in abeyance pending completion of a study, undertaken at the 

V 
* 4 
8/16/67 
-15-
request of Chairman Proxmire of the Committee's Subcommittee on Finan-
cial Institutions, of the savings, if any, that might be realized by 
State and local governments if revenue bonds could be underwritten by 
commercial banks. 
(The study was transmitted to Chairman Proxmire with 
a letter of July 24, 1967, pursuant to Board action on July 14.) 
Since 
then the Board had heard presentations by proponents and opponents of 
the legislative proposal on July 26 and August 1, 1967, respectively. 
There had now been distributed a memorandum dated August 14, 
1967, from the Legal Division describing the effect of passage of 
S. 1306, outlining arguments for and against the bill (largely on the 
basis of a staff memorandum of July 24, 1967), and submitting alterna-
tive draft reports in an effort to facilitate development of the Board's 
Position on the bill. 
After some preliminary discussion of procedure, Governor 
Robertson inquired whether the members of the Board were prepared at 
this time to indicate whether they favored or did not favor the pro-
Posed legislation. 
All of the members of the Board except Governor Daane stated 
that they were favorable to the legislation. Governor Daane indicated 
cnat he 
was disposed not to favor it, but that he would reserve final 
judgment until he had had an opportunity to review the transcripts of 
the presentations that had been made to the Board by the commercial 
bankers and investment bankers. 

8/16/67 
-16-
Governor Robertson then stated that in the circumstances he 
would like to present for the Board's consideration the kind of state-
ment that he felt might be appropriate in testifying on S. 1306, which 
testimony was scheduled for Monday, August 28. The testimony, he noted, 
would be in lieu of a letter report on S. 1306. He proceeded to review 
a draft of testimony, after which he inquired whether the members of 
the Board felt that it was in the right tone, subject, of course, to 
more detailed review upon distribution of the draft. 
Members of the Board who had indicated that they favored the 
Proposed legislation expressed themselves as concurring generally with 
the tone of the draft testimony outlined by Governor Robertson. Their 
immediate suggestions were principally of an editorial nature. 
Governor Robertson then stated that he had in mind that Governor 
Mitchell would represent the Board before the Subcommittee on Financial 
Institutions. He said that the draft statement would be distributed to 
each Board member, in order that all suggestions could be taken into 
account. 
Governor Robertson also referred to a discussion of the revenue 
bond question that had been held by the Board during a meeting in execu-
tive session prior to Chairman Martin's departure on his current trip 
abroad. He summarized his recollection of the views that had been 
e*pressed by the Chairman during the executive session. 

8/16/67 
-17-
Governor Daane commented that in his view the draft testimony 
outlined by Governor Robertson was appropriate from the standpoint of 
those who favored the proposed legislation. He said that he could come 
close to subscribing to such a statement, but repeated that he would 
like to reserve final judgment. He inquired how dissenting views within 
the Board had been dealt with in the past when testimony, then negative 
in tone, was presented on proposals for commercial bank underwriting of 
revenue bonds, and Governor Robertson said he did not recall that the 
question of dissenting views had been raised on those occasions. 
Further reference was made to the understanding of members of 
the Board as to the Chairman's position, Governor Daane stating that he 
understood the Chairman was still opposed basically to expansion of the 
commercial bank underwriting function, while other members expressed 
their understanding that the Chairman might not be strongly opposed to 
a statement supporting the currently proposed legislation if it was made 
clear that the position taken was not an indication of support for an 
e*tension of commercial bank underwriting into the corporate field. 
Governor Daane inquired of Mr. Cardon as to the prospect for 
Passage of the legislation if the Board presented a statement of the 
kind contemplated, and Mr. Cardon expressed the view that, while the 
Senate might pass the bill, the prospect of action in the House was less 
favorable. 

8/16/67 
-18-
It was understood that the proposed testimony would be consid-
ered further by the Board at its meeting this Friday after the members 
of the Board had had an opportunity to review the draft statement and 
Governor Daane had completed his study of the available documentation. 
Holding company matter. Governor Robertson called the atten-
tion of the Board to the fact that there were being distributed, as a 
matter of information, papers relating to the question whether direct 
or indirect ownership by certain corporations of the stock of four 
Chicago banks (known as the Muscat group of banks) caused the provi-
sions of the Bank Holding Company Act to be applicable. He noted that 
at the 
request of the Department of Justice, and with his approval, memo-
randa submitted to the Board's staff by counsel for the parties concerned 
had been transmitted to the Department. 
Mr. Hackley added that counsel for the parties at interest had 
advised the Board's staff that the parties were anxious to take correc-
tive action if it appeared that violations of the Bank Holding Company 
Act were involved. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary's Notes: Letters were sent today 
to First National City Bank, New York, New 
York, acknowledging receipt of notice of its 
intent to establish four additional branches 
in Argentina, two to be located in Cordoba 
and two in Rosario; an additional branch in 
Panama, to be located in La Chorrera; and an 
additional branch in Malaysia, to be located 
in Butterworth. 

«.f •%.•« 
8/16/67 
-19-
Attached as Item No. 3 is a copy of a letter 
sent today, with the approval of Governor 
Robertson, to the Presidents of all Federal 
Reserve Banks relating to reports of changes 
in control of State member banks under Public 
Law 88-593. 
On August 15, 1967, Governor Robertson approved 
on behalf of the Board memoranda recommending 
the following actions relating to the Board's 
staff: 
Salary increases 
Karen Y. Hodges, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and Statistics 
from $4,557 to $4,936 per annum, effective August 27, 1967. 
Christine A . Klaput, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and Statis 
tics, from $4,269 to $4,776 per annum, effective August 27, 1967. 
Margaret I. Ratcliffe, Clerk-Typist, Division of Research and Sta-
tistics, from $4,557 to $4,936 per annum, effective August 27, 1967. 
Acceptance of resignations 
Edward L. Jewell, Messenger, Division of Administrative Services, 
effective the close of business August 18, 1967. 
Larry Jay Promisel, Summer Research Assistant, Division of Inter-
national Finance, effective the close of business August 25, 1967. 
Governor Robertson today approved on behalf 
of the Board the recommendation in a memo-
randum from the Division of Research and 
Statistics dated August 10, 1967, that a 
position of economist in the Flow of Funds 
and Savings Section that was recently abol-
ished be reestablished. 
On August 15, 1967, action was taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated author-
ity as indicated by the following letter, 
a copy of which is attached under the item 
number indicated: 

32«C 
8/16/67 
-20-
By the Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
4 
approving the reappointment of R. Bruce Valley 
as assistant examiner. 
On August 15, 1967, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Atlanta, acting on behalf of the 
Board under delegated authority, granted 
an extension of time for The First National 
Bank of Miami, Miami, Florida, to invest in 
stock of First Foreign Investment Corpora-
tion, Miami, ana for the latter (an agree-
ment corporation) to acquire stock of Miami 
Holdings Limited, a Bahamian corporation. 
The national bank and the agreement corpo-
ration were advised of this action by tele-
gram on August 15; a copy of the Reserve 
Bank's letter of confirmation is attached 
as Item No. 5. 
On August 16, 1967, actions were taken on 
behalf of the Board under delegated author-
ity as indicated by the following letters, 
copies of which are attached under the 
respective item numbers indicated: 
B y t h e Acting Director of the Division of Examinations 
Item No. 
Letter to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas 
6 
approving the designation of Jerry A. Silvey 
as special assistant examiner. 
SiL _the Federal Reserve Bank of New York 
Letter to Bankers Trust Company, New York, 
7 
New York, approving the establishment of a 
branch at 51st Street and Lexington Avenue, 
Borough of Manhattan. 
j^L-the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Letter to The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, 
8 
Pennsylvania, granting an extension of time 
within which to establish a branch in Rosemont. 

\f>v 
lt!S 
8/16/67 
-21-
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Letter to The Union Commerce Bank, Cleveland, 
Ohio, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish two branches (one a drive-
in facility) in Richmond Heights. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Letter to Rapides Bank & Trust Company in 
Alexandria, Alexandria, Louisiana, approving 
an investment in bank premises. 
By the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
— 
Letter to United California Bank, Los Angeles, 
California, granting an extension of time within 
which to establish a branch in San Diego. 
o r 
vi' <C« > 
Item No. 
10 
11 
•U •.'.-:• 

v S 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y 5 T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 1 
8/16/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1967. 
Board of Directors, 
The Fidelity Bank, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to the provisions of Section 24A of the 
Federal Reserve Act, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System approves an investment in bank premises of 
$200,000 by The Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
to purchase land and to erect a branch office building at the 
northwest corner of 11th and Walnut Streets, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania. This is in addition to the $50,000 which was 
approved in the Board's letter of January 18, 1967. 
The Board is pleased to note that the capital funds 
of your bank are being increased through the sale of $25 
million of capital debentures. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 2 
8/16/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D S 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 17, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 23213 
D e a r Mr. Nosker: 
# 
This is in regard to the Petition of North State Bank, 
U rlington, North Carolina, requesting that the Board defer action 
the pending application of Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, 
inston-Salem, North Carolina, for permission to establish a branch 
n Graham, North Carolina, and to the protest of First National Bank 
^ Eastern North Carolina, in the course of which it also urges that 
oard action at this time on Wachovia Bank's application would be 
Premature. 
on u
 
N o r t h State Bank requests that the Board withhold action 
the application pending: 
a 
action by the Superior Court of Wake County on the 
^ppeal of North State Bank from the ruling of the North Carolina 
a ^ T ? banking Commission, on March 22, 1967, approving Wachovia
1s 
aPPUcation, and 
M i d d
 
2-
 
a ruling by the United States District Court for the 
b y th
 
D i s t r i c t 
o f North Carolina on a petition filed with the Court 
mod'f
6 F i r s t 
N a t i o n a l Bank of Eastern North Carolina, requesting a 
Bank 
°
n °
f a n 
o r d e r 
e ntered by the Court on August 18, 1966, in 
l-gjLHaw River v . Saxon, 257 F . Supp. 74 (M.D.N.C. 1966). 
the
 
U p°
n c o n s i d e r a t i o n of North State Bank's petition, and of 
C P - t e s t filed on behalf of First National Bank of Eastern North 
aPPli
 n a *
 
U r g i n g 
a l s o 
t h a t 
t h e 
B o a r d defer action on Wachovia's branch 
(jGc. R a t i o n , the Board has determined to defer its action pending a 
bef
1 S i°? b y 
t h e 
S uP
e rior Court of Wake County in the case now pending 
a c t ?
r e 
i t : challenging the validity of the State Banking Commission's 
°n approving Wachovia's branch application. The Board's decision 

Mr. John L. Nosker 
-2- 
' ' - 2 4 0 
to await said Court action is consistent with the Board
fs established 
Practice, with regard to an application by a State bank to establish 
a branch office, of deferring its action until final action by the 
appropriate State banking authority. 
Regarding the protest of First National Bank of Eastern North 
Carolina, in view of the significantly different circumstances in which 
that bank
1s protest has been lodged, the Board does not believe that it 
would be similarly justified in deferring its ruling on Wachovia's branch 
applicat ion pending the outcome of litigation in the Federal District 
ourt that involves a different application than that now pending before 
Board and a different applicant. Accordingly, the Board's action 
r egarding the application now pending before it will be deferred pending 
a court determination as to the validity of the North Carolina Banking 
Commission
1s action on Wachovia Bank's branch application. 
You are requested to inform the Applicant, North State Bank, 
a n d First National Bank of Eastern North Carolina of the Board's decision 
and to request the Applicant to provide prompt notice of any determination 
nich may be made by the Superior Court of Wake County. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Merritt Sherman 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 

sO/V" * 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
8/16/67 
S-2028 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1967. 
Dear Sir: 
The Board's letter of September 25, 1964 (S-1931), requested 
the Reserve Banks to forward to the Division of Examinations a copy of 
all reports of changes in control of banks received pursuant to the 
Provisions of Public Law 08-593. Under the Public Information Act, 
which became effective July 4, 1967, the Board has received requests 
for information obtained by it under Public Law 88-593, and it is 
likely that additional requests will be received. While the Board 
feels that portions of the information received in the reports of 
changes in control can be disclosed, certain facts reported are priv-
ileged and confidential and cannot be divulged. 
In order to segregate and make available for inspection and 
copying the information in these reports that the Board feels can be 
disclosed, the attached fotm (FR 174) has been devised. It is requested 
that the form be completed in the future for each report of a change in 
control of a State member bank and forwarded to the Division of Examina-
tions v;ith the copy of the report. A supply of FR 174 is enclosed and 
additional copies may be obtained upon request. 
Very truly yours, 
Merritt Sherman, 
Secretary. 
Enclo sure 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

• y .y--' 
• 
PR 11/ 
3242 
S-2028-a 
CHANGES IN CONTROL OF 107, Oft 
MORE,OF THE STOCK OF A STATE 
MEMBER BANK UNDER PUBLIC LAW 88-593 
(If additional space is needed, use reverse side tumble style) 
and address of bank: 
Date of transaction (if not available show date reported): 
Total 
Total 
Names 
number of shares of voting stock of the bank outstanding: 
number of shares involved in transaction: 
of sellers (list only those selling 10% or more of outstanding stock; 
aggregate others): 
of purchasers: 

3 2 4 f ? 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
8/16/67 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N D C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1967 
Mr. John L. Nosker, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
Richmond, Virginia. 
23213 
Dear Mr. Nosker: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 11, 1967, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the 
reappointment of R. Bruce Valley as an assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, effective today. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

nigiift •. 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
OF A T L A N T A 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
August 10, 1967 
Item No. 5 
8/16/67 
C 
Mr. Carl H. Br una 
President 
The Fir at National Bank of Miami 
100 South Biscayne Boulevard 
Miami, Florida 33131 
Dear Mr. Bruns: 
This io to confirm that I dispatched the following tele-
gxam from this bank to your bank and First Foreign Investment 
C ompany ye o te rd ay: 
Acting under delegated authority in behalf of the 
Board of Governors, the Federal Reserve Bank 
cf Atlanta hereby extends the time in which your 
bank may invest $300, 009 in First Foreign Invest-
ment Company, and in which the "Agreement" 
corporation may acquire $300, 003 of i/cock in 
Miami Holdings, Ltd., from Au^ict 15, 1967, 
to August 15, 1968. 
The period of time referred to v/as originally prescribed in the 
Beard's letter of August 15, 1966. 
This extension was granted for the reasons stated in your 
letter of August 3, 1967, to the Board of Governors, namely, to 
defer making th3 full investment authorized until the Bahamian 
government has revised the statutes relating to housing and mort-
gage insurance. 
Please advise us when you have made the remain-
ing authorized investment. 
Yours very truly, 
J.' Lyle Hardin 
Assistant Chief Examiner 
cc: 
Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Washington, D. C. 
20551 
Secretary's Delegation, Docket Copy 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
I t e m 
N o - 
6 
or THE 
8/16/67 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
S * 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N O E N C I 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
August 16, 1967 
Mr., Thomas R. Sullivan, Vice President, 
Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas, 
Dallas, Texas. 
75222 
Dear Mr. Sullivan: 
In accordance with the request contained in 
your letter of August 14, 1967, the Acting Director of 
the Division of Examinations, on behalf of the Board of 
Governors under delegated authority, approves the desig-
nation of Jerry A. Silvey as a special assistant examiner 
for the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary. 

• i : , * 
""•'•IU, 
• 
3246 
Item No. 7 
8/16/67 
F E D E R A L RESERVE B A N K OF N E W 
Y O R K 
N E W 
Y O R K , 
N E W 
Y O R K 
1 0 0 4 3 
1 G 1367 
Mr* Joseph C . Cnntvell 
V i c e 
President, 
Bankers Trust Conpany 
16 Vail Street 
Bev York, lev York 
10015 
Dear Mr* Cantvell: 
On behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
eserve Syoteia, the Federal Reserve Bank of Bev York, 
etlng under delegated authority, approves the establishment 
by Bankers Trust Conpany, Bev York, Bev York of a braneh at 
the northvest corner of §lat Street and Lexington Avenue, 
Borough of Manhattan. City of Bev York, In a proposed build-
ing to be knovn as 3*5 Park Avenue, Bev York, Bev York, 
Provided the branch Is established by January 1, 19&9* 
Ve shall appreciate your advising us vhen the 
branch Is actually established 
and opened for business, 
giving the effective date of opening, the nase, If any, by 
.vhleh It vlll be knovn, and the official postal address, 
laeludlng the zip code nuaber* 
Please acknovledge receipt by signing and returning 
to us the enclosed copy of this letter* 
Very truly yours, 
Thoaas M* Tlalen, Jr. 
Vice President 
Khelosure 
BOtsg 
.! A .'V. 

3 2 1 7 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
8/16/67 
O F 
P H I L A D E L P H I A 
P O S T A L Z O N K 
1 
August 16, 1967 
0 
Mr. Howard C. Petersen 
Chairman of the Board 
The Fidelity Bank 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
Daar Mr. Petersen: 
Under date of June 7, 1965, 
the Federal Reserve System appor 
bank of a branch office at 
Lower Merlon Township, Mon _ 
the branch was established within 
date. 
Under date of 
of the Federal Rese 
your bank might es 
Hovember 14, 
Reserve System grant 
••tablishment of the 
of Governors of 
ishment by your 
e, Rosemont, 
sylvania, provided 
of the aforesaid 
1965>Nthe
Nfioard of Governors 
ed the^^ne within which 
branch to December 7, 1966. 
mors of the Federal 
ion of time for the 
Jt 1967. 
sistajit\Vice Prel^ent/Aaronson of your bank, by letter 
967, has adVlsed that the office is now under 
opening date of Hovemb^r 1, 1967; has 
her states that construction has been 
ike but that it is felt that the 
opened before the ecu: of 1967. Since 
open the branch by September 7, 1967* 
a further extension of time. 
"roof* 
completed. 
vO 
feted 
dated 
*oof and th*t a ten 
established. 
<*«laysd\jue 
branch wi 
*t will not 
Aaronson tia^ re 
This is to advise you that on behalf of the Board of Oovernorc 
the Federal Reserve System, acting under delegated authority, the 
j^deral Reserve Bank of Philadelphia extends for six months from 
September 
J, 1967, the time within which The Fidelity Bank may 
*®tablish a branch at 1212 Lancaster Avenue, Rosemont, Lower Merlon 
Town8hip, Montgomery County, Pennsylvania. 
Sincerely yours, 
J. I. Oast 
Joseph M. Case 
Assistant Vice President 

• • • . 1 AX)'. 
: rw 
3248 
COPY 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND 
Item No. 9 
8/16/67 
August 16, 
1967 
vJ'-C 
X. 
rr-i 
M r - William D. Deedrick 
President 
Union Commerce Bank 
C l«veland, 
Ohio 
Mr. 
Deedrick: 
'.Wm.'rtCt} 
Ou U'v?.'
1; U '» j' :>? 
On behalf of the Board of Governor• of the Federal Reserve System. 
acting under delegated authority, the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland has 
aPproved your request for an extension of time within which your bank may 
a branch and a drive-in branch at the northeast corner of the inter-
action of Wilson Mills and Richmond Poads, Richmond Heights. 
Cuyahoga 
°vinty, Ohio. 
These extensions expire en February 24. 
1968. 
On the day operations are started, will you please write us that 
* branches have been formally opet ed for business. 
Very truly yours, 
•A 
... 
. 
y ^ ^ t o u , 
0 
1 
W. H. MacDonald 
First Vice President 
v ^st^.kit a 
- • 
- * 
"11 
L'-Uf-t^-S S: if j. 

F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
B A N K 
Item No. 10 
O F A T L A N T A 
8 / 1 6 / 6 7 
A T L A N T A , G E O R G I A 
3 0 3 0 3 
August 16, 1967 
®°*rd of Directors 
®PUtt Bank & Trust Connany 
Alexandria 
l t * * n d r U , Louisiana 71301 
^ • • e n r 
^ 
Pursuant to the provisions of Saction 4A oi the Federal 
Act, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
^ *
t*
Qj» acting under delegated authority, this Bank approves an ad-
Itv 
investment in bank premises by Rapides Bank & Trust Company 
£*
t**ndria, Alexandria, Louisiana, for $1,760,000 in connection 
t h construction at the following offices: 
Main Office 
Bolton Avenue Branch 
Lee 6 Texas Branch 
Pineville Branch 
Temporary Computer Center 
Planned Jackson & MacArthur Branth. 
'Ml:) 
Very truly yo 
Harold T. Patterson 
President 
°°ard of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System 
Ashing ton, D. C. 
J**- A . Clayton James 
t ate Bank Commissioner 
B aton Louge, Louisiana 
70804 
1 'v " • 
n 
g£gretary's Delegation Docket Copy 

o 
f * 
FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF S A N FRANCISCO 
S A N F R A N C I S C O , C A L I F O R N I A 
0 4 1 2 0 
Item No 
August 16, 1967 
8/16/67 
Mr. Hal Mendv>n, 
Senior Executive Vice President 
United California Bank, 
600 South Spring Street, 
Los Angeles, California 90054. 
Dear Mr. Mend >n: 
On behalf of the Board 
Reserve System, acting under dele 
has approved an extension t-j Septei 
within which Unite$K6alifoihij.a Bank 
office in the vig 
and Genesee Avei 
Srn Diego, San 
.nity of 
of the Federal 
i:y, jhis Bank 
1968, of the time 
\:\y establish a branch 
the\ intersection >f 3albo£ Avenue 
in the ClaYremont JXiscrict, City of 
!go County, California. 
This extension is p a n t e d in connection with the 
•uesi; contained i K V
; l u r Jitter dated August 10, 1967. 
Very truly yours, 
(SIGNED) LLIOI 1 
' 
Eliot J 
Swan, 
President. 
