MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 11, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Amendment to Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits. 

3 5 * 2 3 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, September 11, 19 73. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
o f Philadelphia National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to 
transfer to itself and to retain shares of Congress Factors Corporation, 
a i S o of Philadelph ia. These shares presently are owned by the applicant's 
Y"T"—i— 
—' Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

o r '>A 
9/11/73 
-2-
wholly-owned subsidiary, The Philadelphia National Bank, also of 
Philadelphia. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Corporation. In a memorandum of August 21, 
1973, the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of 
Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the application of 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares 
°f Gateway Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. 
The Board unanimously approved the application and, with certain 
changes in wording, authorized issuance of an order reflecting this 
decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
Bankers Trust Company. In connection with four applications by 
Rankers Trust Company, New York, New York, Mr. Leavitt presented an 
analysis of the applicant's program for improvement of its capital 
Position. In expanding upon his memorandum of August 21, 1973, in which 
he recommended approval of the applications, Mr. Leavitt emphasized that, 
in his opinion, the capital program was satisfactory and capable of 
achievement. In this regard, he noted that the program could be 
continually monitored to assess the progress being made, and the 
aPplicant could be advised if it developed that the program was inadequate. 
The applications now before the Board requested permission for 
^ankers Trust Company to establish: (1) a branch in Milan, Italy; (2) a 

3531 
9/11/73 
-3-
branch in Singapore; (3) a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Islands, British West Indies; and (4) three Edge corporations to be 
located in Miami, Florida; Chicago, Illinois; and Houston, Texas. 
The Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of 
these applications in two memoranda of July 26, 1973, and in memoranda 
of August 15 and August 7, 1973, respectively. 
Although some members of the Board expressed a somewhat 
cautious view of the applicant's capital improvement program, the 
B°ard unanimously approved the four applications. Copies of the letters 
s°nt to the applicant are attached as Items 3 through 8. The three 
Otters concerning the Edge corporations transmitted preliminary permits. 
Congressional testimony. Chairman Burns was scheduled to 
appear on September 12, 1973, before the House Banking and Currency 
Committee in connection with the Committee's series of hearings on the 
^tion's current credit situation. A draft statement on the subject of 
housing had been distributed. Discussion included a number of suggestions 
r°garding approach and emphasis. At the conclusion of the discussion, it 
W a s understood that the statement would be revised in the light of comments 
ade and would be presented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. 
CoPy of the statement as presented before the Committee has been placed 
Ia the Board's files. 
NOW accounts. After brief discussion, the Board deferred until 
later this week further consideration of its position on the regulation 
°f th< 
allow time for further staff analysis of the matter. 
use of NOW accounts by member banks in Massachusetts and New Hampshire 
to 

3532 
9/11/73 
-4-
Regulation Q amendment. In a memorandum of September 6, 1973, 
the Legal Division, in the light of comments received, recommended modifi-
cation of the proposed amendment to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits, 
which was published for comment on July 26, 1973, relating to the 
disclosure of interest rate penalties applicable in the event a time 
deposit is paid before maturity. In addition to recommending a number 
°f clarifying changes, the Legal Division recommended elimination of 
the proposal to require banks to provide customers with arithmetic 
examples of the penalties for early withdrawal of time deposits. 
In today's discussion, opinion was divided on whether to 
eliminate the requirement of arithmetic examples. Some Board members 
felt that such examples could create confusion for bank customers whereas 
others thought that they would promote better understanding. Discussion 
developed agreement to adopt the recommendations of the Legal Division, 
with certain changes in wording of the proposed amendment. On this 
basis, the Board unanimously approved the amendment, effective September 18, 
1973. A copy of the amendment is attached under Item No. 9, along with 
the related press release. It was understood that the Board's staff would 
give further consideration, in consultation with the staff of the Federal 
deposit Insurance Corporation, to the desirability of requiring banks to 
Provide arithmetic examples to their customers. 
Proposed notification re interest on CD's after maturity. In a 
Memorandum of September 7, 1973, the Legal Division submitted for Board 
aPproval a draft letter to Representative Patman, Chairman of the 

3533 
9/11/73 
-5-
House Banking and Currency Committee, regarding his suggestion that 
banks be required to notify their customers of the fact that no interest 
will be paid on certificates of deposit for any period after their 
maturity. 
Although it was felt that it would be impractical to require 
that each customer be notified upon maturity of his certificate, the 
Board found Chairman Patman's alternative suggestion that the Board 
require that all certificates of deposit clearly indicate that no 
interest would accrue following maturity to be reasonable and appropriate. 
The Board therefore approved in principle adoption of that suggestion, 
xt being understood that Governor Mitchell would present the matter to 
the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regulation for consideration, 
after which Chairman Patman would be informed of the Board's decision. 
It was further understood that the staff would prepare implementing 
documentation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3534 
Item No. 1 
9/11/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PHILADELPHIA NATIONAL CORPORATION (formerly PNB CORPORATION) 
Order Approving Retention of Congress Factors Corporation 
Philadelphia National Corporation (formerly PNE Corporation), 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, a bank holding company within the meaning 
the Bamc Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval, 
under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
^gulation Y, to retain 80 per cent of the common stock of Congress 
Factors Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Factors"), a 
c°fcpany that engages directly in the activities of purchasing of 
^counts receivable, principally on a non-recourse basis ("factoring"),and 
making loans to commercial customers, secured by accounts receivable, 
inventory, equipment, and/or real estate ("commercial lending"). 
G°ngress Financial Corporation ("Financial") and Congress Credit 
C°rPoration ("Credit"), both of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, are wholly-owned 
s(ibsidiaries of Factors and engage solely in commercial lending. Such 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). The shares of Factors are presently held 
b y the Philadelphia National Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania ("Bank"), 
a ^holly-owned (except for directors' qualifying shares) subsidiary of 
applicant. Applicant, besides seeking approval of its retention of these 
Sharcs, seeks approval to transfer those shares from Bank to itself. 

3535 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views on the public 
interest factors, has been duly published (33 Federal Register 18495). 
^he time for filing comments and views has expired, and none has been 
received. 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in Pennsylvania, 
c°ntrols one bank with total domestic deposits of $2.0 billion, 
representing 5.6 per cent of the total domestic deposits in commercial 
banks in Pennsylvania."" Applicant's direct nonbanking subsidiaries 
delude a commercial finance company, a consumer finance holding 
company, a residential mortgage origination company, and an internal 
financing company. 
2/ 
Factors is engaged in both maturity and discount factoring, 
a s well a s commercial lending. Factors, Financial, and Credit conduct 
^siness from their principal operating office in New York, New York, 
a•'•though headquartered in Philadelphia. Financial also operates a sales 
referral office in Miami, Florida, and Credit principally operates from 
atl office in Hato Rey, Puerto Rico. Factors engages in factoring primarily 
a the Hew York area. During 1972, it had annual factoring volume of 
^ 
Banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 
J 
maturity factoring, payment to the seller of the accounts 
^eceivable is not made until the receivables are expected to have been 
°Hected by Factors. In discount factoring, funds are advanced to the 
prior to the collection of the receivables. 

3536 
~3~ 
$210 million, representing 1.5 per cent of total commercial factored 
accounts held by the 25 largest factoring firms. It is estimated 
that Factors is thereby the 22nd largest of such firms. 
Neither Applicant nor any of its subsidiaries (other than 
Factors) are presently, nor have ever been, engaged in factoring other 
than to a limited degree. Accordingly, no significant existing competition 
in that line of commerce would be eliminated upon consummation of the 
Proposed transaction nor was any significant existing competition 
eliminated by Bank's acquisition of shares of Factors in 1967. Therein 
a 
considerable number of potential entrants into that line of commerce, 
and Applicant is not considered one of the most likely such entrants. 
Accordingly, no future competition would be foreclosed in that line of 
commerce upon approval of this application. 
Applicant's commercial finance subsidiary, PNB Commercial Finance 
Corporation ("CFC") held loans of approximately $2 million outstanding 
a t year-end 1972 and primarily serves the Philadelphia metropolitan area. 
pactorat Financial, and Credit, holding aggregate commercial loans amounting 
t o $28.5 million outstanding at year-end 1972, engage in the same line 
o f commerce as does CFC. However, they primarily serve borrowers in 
York, New Jersey, Florida, and Puerto Rico, and do not significantly 
compete in the Philadelphia area. As of December 31, 1972, Financial had 
°utstanding commercial loans of $0.8 million derived from the 
Philadelphia area. Credit and Factors had none. Bank itself neither 

3537 
-4-
eRgages in a factoring business nor in making the type of high-risk 
commercial loans made by Financial and Credit. Further, Applicant's 
retention and intra-corporate transfer of the Congress companies are 
n o t expected to adversely affect the availability of credit to 
competitors of those companies. In fact, Bank has increased its 
lin 
of credit to those competitors since the acquisition of Factors 
n 1967, The Board concludes that the retention and intra-corporate 
transfer of Congress and its subsidiaries would have no significant 
Averse effect on existing or future competition. 
There is no evidence in the record to indicate that the 
pr°posed retention would lead to an undue concentration of resources, 
C0l*flicts of interests, or unsound banking practices. Applicant's 
detention and intra-corporate transfer of Factors should result in 
enefits to the public by indirectly increasing the amount of 
fin 
ar*cial resources available to Factors and its subsidiaries. Since 
ts acquisition by Bank in 1967, Factors has experienced significant 
growth and has enhanced its competitive strength, partially as a 
esult of its ability, as a subsidiary of a bank holding company, to 
e funds through the commercial paper market at a lower cost than 
uSh bank financing, and thereby to maintain aggressive competitive 
Prici ng. 

3538 
-5-
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. The 
intra-corporate transfer shall not be consummated later than three 
m°nths after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
e*tended for cood c a u s e by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Pursuant to authority delegated hereby. This determination is subject 
to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 
4.1 
e Board's authority to require such modification or termination 
o f the activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries 
a s the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions 
arui Purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued 
Greunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 11, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
"3/"—" 
^ch° t i n g f° r t h l S a c t i o n : Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Sheehan, 
Gove
er a n d H o l l a n d* 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
rnors Daane and Brimmer. 

_ 3539 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/11/73 
FIRST NATIONAL CITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Gateway Life Insurance Company 
First National City Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y to acquire all of the voting 
shares of Gateway Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Gateway"), 
a company that would engage in the activity of underwriting, as reinsurer, 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance sold by Applicant's 
consumer finance subsidiary, Nationwide Financial Services Corporation 
('Nationwide")Such activities have been determined by the Board 
t 0 be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
h a s been duly published (37 Federal Register 25966). The time for filing 
cominents and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant, the largest banking organization and bank holding 
company i n New York, controls seven banks with aggregate domestic 
^Posits of $15.5 billion, representing 14.3 per cent of total deposits in 
CclRntercial banks in the State. 2/ Applicant also controls nonbankirg 
P ^ ^ h e application relates to a matter on which the Board reserved 
Jcision in its Order of December 14, 1972, approving Applicant's acquisi-
of Nationwide. (See Federal Reserve Bulletin, Januaiy 1973, p. 27, 
specially footnote 1.) 
* 
• 
^ talcing data-are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
QrPany formations and acquisitions approved through July 31, 1973. 

; 3510 
- 2 -
subsidiaires engaged principally in mortgage banking, leasing, conditional 
Sales financing, and consumer financing. 
Gateway, with toi:al assets of $1.25 million, would underwrite, 
as Reinsurer, credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
Tnac^e available by an unrelated direct underwriter in connection with 
^tensions of consumer credit by Nationwide. Nationwide operates 85 
Sniall loan offices in 14 States throughout the South, the Mid-West, and 
*ar West. Gateway would reinsure credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance written in connection with Nationwide's loans in 
all 
the States in which Nationwide conducts business, with the 
exception of Florida. 
Applicant is not engaged in reinsurance of credit life and 
^ealth and accident policies sold in connection with consumer credit. 
PPlicant is engaged, indirectly through Lakeland Assurance Company, 
°enix, Arizona, in reinsuring mortgage life and accident and health 
" U r a n c e sold in connection with mortgages serviced by Applicant's 
°-tgage banking subsidiary.3/ However, Lakeland does not engage in nor 
experience in underwriting credit life and accident and health 
have 
^eincj, 
trance. Accordingly, it does not appear that Applicant's acquisition 
°f g ateway would result in any significant adverse effects on existing 
Of 
P°tential competition. 
pr^ ^akeland Assurance Company was indirectly acquired by Applicant 
§ . r t o December 31, 1970, and has 10-year grandfather privileges under 
mo 
^ 
t h e A c t« 
The Board has not yet determined whether reinsuring 
fcSage redemption and accident and health insurance related thereto 
ar* activity closely related to banking. 

3541 
- 3 -
As in past cases where credit life and credit accident and 
health insurance underwriting activities were acquired, the Board must 
b e satisfied that the public interest is met. Applicant has committed 
that within 90 days from approval of the proposal, Gateway and its 
direct underwriter will reduce the rates charged on credit life insurance 
Policies by amounts varying from 3 to 15 per cent in the various States 
in which Nationwide operates. Further, Applicant states that within 
9 0 days from approval of the proposal, Gateway will reduce the rates 
c^arged on credit accident and health insurance policies by 5 per cent 
0 r increase policy benefits by at least 5 per cent. It is the Board's 
jndgment that these benefits to the public are consistent with approval 
o f the application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
^terest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(3) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
E l a t i o n Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
°r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
^sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
tlle Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
°rders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 

3542 
-4-
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three 
months after the effective date of this Crder, unless such period is 
^tended for gocd cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York. 
By order of the Board of Governors,hJ effective September 11, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
for this action: Vice Chs>rman Mitchell and Governors Sheehan, 
q Cler> and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Overnors Daane and Brimmer. 

B D A R D • F G D V E R N D R S 
r. , ^ 
• >SoVcoW* • 
• F T H E 
_ . 
Vjw^&T* 
Item No. 3 
I
P
' 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/11/73 
WwM 
WASH)NGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1.973 
Bankers Trust Company 
0. Box 318 
Church Street Station 
Ngv/ York, New York 10015 
Gentl emen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Slants its permission to Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 arid 25 of the Federal Reserve 
ct> to establish a branch in Milan, Italy, and to operate and maintain 
such branch subject to the provisions of such Sections and of Regula-
tion M. The foregoing permission is granted subject to any necessary 
approval of the New York State Banking Department. 
- 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
°r business on or before August 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
all be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
Wanted will automatically terminate on that date. 
^ 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
sserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
vanishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
°ard should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
l 0 u of the branch in Milan, Italy. 
^ 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, 
Uri<ls provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 
^Pital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
V3.S0tR *-or purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
. 
the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
o ^stments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
the condition that in the conduct of the branch's operations 

3544 
Bankers Trust Company 
- 2 -
®aximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside 
the United States. Furthermore, it is understood that the invest-
^ n t required will be made in conformity with the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

OiJ'iO 
V i W v.- 
• . \ 'n • 
I P & l i 
V 
• t: 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2C551 
Item No. 4 
9/11/73 
A D D R E S S 
Clf l'ICIAL 
C D S R E S P U N C E N C E 
to the: guard 
September 11, 1973 
jankers Trust Company 
0. Box 318 
^nurch Street Station 
G w York, New York 10015 
Gc;ntlcmo.n: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
f ^ t s its permission to your bank, pursuant to the provisions 
^ 
uections 9 and 25 of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a 
. c,ncn in Singapore, and to operate and maintain such branch sub-
to the orovisiois of such Sections and of Regulation M. The 
forf 
0J: the 
-f",oing permission "is grantsubject to any necessary approval 
New York State Banking Denartnent. 
^ 
> 
The Board has noted that your letter of July 5, 19/3, 
boated that adequate information covering your branch's opera-
^ ° U s in Singapore will be maintained at your head office and will 
available to Lite Board and bank supervisory authorities. 
* 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened 
h>. llslnoss on or before August 1, 1974, all rights granted 
h°u-by shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority 
• f % granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
^ 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
f u«*ve Bank of Mew York, when the branch is opened for business', 
r,,, Wishing information as Co the exact location of the branch, 
iiif, p 
° 
, • rjoard should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
ution of the branch in Singapore. 
v 
j 
With respect to-the establishment of foreign branches, 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated 

3546 
Bankers Trust Company 
- 2 -
capital, advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign 
assets for purposes of the foreign credit restraint effort. In 
yiew of the Board's concern with minimizing the impact of foreign 
investments on the balance of payments, the above consent is given 
°n the condition that in the conduct of the branch's operations 
Maximum reliance will be placed on resources obtained outside the 
United States. Furthermore, it is understood that the investment 
required will be made in conformity with the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply t;o your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Beard 

3547 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
9/11/73 
A D D R E S S 
Q F T I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P C N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1973 
bankers Trust Company 
280 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
Slants its permission to Bankers Trust Company, New York, New York, 
Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal 
reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject 
t° the provisions of such Sections and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and 
n°t as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the 
United States. It is also understood that there is to be no con-
tact with the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, 
staff, and bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under 
c°ntract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review 
these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn 
modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
e-posits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
Gnefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of Section 213.7(b), 
and (3) tjie further condition that adequate information covering the 
ranch's operations will be maintained at your head office and will be 
Mailable 
to the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board 
1Quld be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
^othods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
Services are supplied to the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
subject to the condition that Bankers Trust Company shall liquidate 
ts Nassau branch within six months of the opening of the Georgetown 
branch. 

3548 
Bankers Trust Company 
- 2 -
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before September 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
Payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the State: 
the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
imitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and in 
#emulation Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally sub-
ject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose 
these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States 
anks to compete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, 
^t has long been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve 
ystem to discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign 
ranches of United States banks unless such deposits have been placed 
. serve a definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or 
nternational transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
Poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's 
c°ncern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
^ n c e °f payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in 
lG conduct; of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed 
° n resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, It is 
Understood that any investment required will be made within the 
reign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 5 1 9 
B D A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R 5 
D F T H E 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
9/11/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1973 
Bankers Trust Company 
Box 318 
^urch Street Station 
^ew York, New York 10015 
Gentlemen: 
. 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
^ssociation and the Organization Certificate, dated July 2, 1973, 
G ^ankers Trust International (Miami) Corporation, and there is 
G
 cj-°sed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to 
^ ercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
e r al Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
rSanization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
b
 
CorPoration may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
^ 
action 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the 
pr
ar<? 
issue its final permit to commence business, the 
0£ *Sj-dGnt, treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three 
of 11 
d i r e c t o r s » m ust certify (1) that each director is a citizen 
he United States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital 
a n d o w n c d by citizens of the United States, by 
citP°rations the controlling interest in which is owned by 
Unit?enS 
U n l L c d States, chartered under the laws of the 
c 0 m
 P d States or of a State of the United States or by firms or 
of j.fnies the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens 
spec t U n i t e d States; and (3) that: of the authorized capital stock 
b e c n
 
i n 1:110 Articles of Association at least 25 per cent has 
Paid 
i n i n c a s h a n d t h a t e a c h shareholder has individually 
The
 
X n i n cash at least 25 per cent of his stock subscription, 
of ti a 
' 
treasurer or secretary shall certify to the payment 
apo 
G remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, in 
c°rdance with law. 

3550 
Bankers Trust Company 
- 2 -
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bankers 
Trust International (Miami) Corporation will have no separate 
ase under the foreign credit restraint effort and that any 
foreign loans and investments will need to be made under the 
filing of Bankers Trust Company ("ETC"), New York, New York, 
ccordingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
"hat any foreign loans and investment of the Corporation will be 
Inado within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply 
to BTC and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^ c l o s u r e 

_ 3551 
BOARD • F GOVERNORS 
• 
F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , D. C. aCJSSI 
September 11, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
t^e Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it 
by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this 
day approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 2, 1973, of BANKERS TRUST INTERNATIONAL (MIAMI) CORPORATION, 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that BANKERS TRUST 
INTERNATIONAL (MIAMI) CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such 
o f the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final 
pe*mit generally to commence business in accordance with the provisions 
o f said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of the Board of 
G°vernors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3552 
«fc 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 4 
9/11/73 
a d d r e s s arriciAL. c o r r e s p o n d e n c e 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1973 
jankers Trust Company 
' 
Box 318 
Jhurch Street Station 
G w York, New Yoric 10015 
G e nUemen: 
at. 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Associ-
j °n and the Organization Certificate, dated July 2, 1973, of Bankers 
p ^ international (Chicago) Corporation, and there is enclosed a 
Po l m i n a r y permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of the 
in •rS c°nferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are 
°ntal and preliminary to its organization. 
the r 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
by g orP°ration may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
iss °r. inS it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
sGc^e its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
(1) Gtary> together with at least three of the directors, must certify 
mai . a t eacl1 director is a citizen of the United States; (2) that a 
the 
of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by citizens of 
IVji:ed States, by corporations the controlling interest in which is 
by citizens of the United States, chartered under the laws of the 
the 
States or of a State of the United States or by firms or companies 
and ?°ntr°iling interest in which is owned by citizens of the United States 
of As 
t-^t of the authorized capital stock specified in the Articles 
shav«k f0ciation at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that 
St0cl^l<ler has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent of his 
t0
 
sukscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary shall certify 
in 
e Payment of the remaining instalments as and when each is paid in, 
Ccordance with law. 
W e 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bankers Trust 
fpte-nati°nal (Chicago) Corporation will have no separate base under the 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments 
need to be made under the ceiling of Bankers Trust Company ("BTC"). 
or 

Bankers Trust Company 
- 
2 
-
that 
n g l y> t h e foregoing approval is given with the understanding 
mad ^ 
f o r e i s n l o a n s a n d investment of the Corporation will be 
G within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
a F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , O . C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
September 11, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
th 
G Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
S 
Gction 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
Pproved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
d d t e d July 2, 1973, of BANKERS TRUST INTERNATIONAL (CHICAGO) CORPORATION 
d U l y filed with said Board of Governors, and that BANKERS TRUST INTER-
NAtIONAL (CHICAGO) CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the 
conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
eliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board of 
vernors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
n c e business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
and t] 
*e rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
-rve Sy stem issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3c t" tr 
B D A R D DF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D, 
C. 20551 
Item No 
9/11/73 
A D D R E S S 
a r r i C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 11, 1973 
jokers Trust Company 
• 
Box 318 
Jjhu*ch Street Station 
°'w York, New York :!0015 
C l e m e n : 
a, . 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Associ-
° n and the Organization Certificate, dated July 2, 1973, of Bankers 
p^®^ international (Houston) Corporation, and there is enclosed a 
Pow,lnilnary P e r mit authorizing that Corporation to exercise such of tin 
iticj ^S C o n f e r r G d by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act as are 
Cental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section'211.3 (a) of Regulation IC, 
by g °rPoration may not exercise any of the other powers conferred 
aut^°ction 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
iss 
it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
s° 
permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
(i) G
1
CrGtary> together with at least three of the directors, must certify 
ni£H . 
eacl1 director is a citizen of the United States; (2) that a 
the 
of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by citizens of 
—
~ 
— ^ 
—
r 
• — - 
- w 
— - - 
— . . — 
- — 
- — 
- j 
- - 
* — 
~ 
0 W n
 
nited States, by corporations the controlling interest in which is 
the n b y °iti zens of the United States, chartered under the laws of 
Coin^ni.ted States or of a State of the United States or by firms or 
the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the 
the A 
S t a t 
es; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
^Ucl t-i 
i G S 
Association at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash 
Per 
a t Ga°h shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 
shaj^Gnt of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary 
is p .c°rtify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when each 
in, in accordance with law. 
tnter 
Your attention is directed to the fact that Bankers Trust 
the f
nati°nal (Houston) Corporation will have no separate base under 
i%esi-r0^®n c r c dit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and 
niGnts will need to be made under the ceiling of Bankers Trust 

3556 
Bankers Trust: Company 
- 2 -
°mpany ("BTC"). Accordingly, the foregoing approval is given with 
J^e understanding that any foreign loans and investment of the 
Orporation will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
a s they apply to BTC and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^ c l o s u r e 

3557 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, O. C. 2 D 5 B I 
September 11, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
aPproved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated July 2, 1973, of BANKERS TRUST INTERNATIONAL (HOUSTON) CORPORATION 
duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that BANKERS TRUST INTER-
NATI0NAL (HOUSTON) CORPORATION is authorized to exercise such of the 
Powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are incidental and 
preliminary to its organization pending the issuance by the Board of 
G°Vernors of the Federal Reserve System of a final permit generally to 
commence business in accordance with the provisions of said Section 25(a) 
a n d the rules and regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
^°serve System issued pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
gy (Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

f : 
tfOlitJiv.-. 
3558 ! 
Item No. 9 
9/11/73 
For 
» * 
' 
imGdlate release 
September 12, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
tod 
Pto 
ay 
vis 
the 
V p 
ait amendment to its Regulation Q relating to disclosure of the penalty 
ion for early withdrawal of time deposits. Regulation Q deals with 
^M'^cnt of interest on deposits at Federal Reserve member banks. 
The amendment, which goes into effect on September 18, will 
e member banks to: 
1* Disclose in advertising of interest paid on time deposits 
f'Gdov.- 1 l 
law and regulation prohibit the payment of a time deposit 
s 
t o Maturity unless substantial interest is forfeited. The following 
UQSc is suggested for this statement: 
Federal law and regulation prohibit the payment of a 
time deposit prior to maturity unless three months of 
the interest thereon is forfeited and interest on the 
amount withdrawn is reduced to the passbook rate." 
••p 
1 0r radio or television commercials, the following language is 
ted: 
Substantial interest penalty is required for early withdrawal." 
Give to each bank customer who enters into a time deposit 
act a written statement specifying that the customer has contracted 
kc 
^ 
funds 
« 
on deposit for a fixed period of time, and describing how the 
"^thdrawal penalty applies to time deposits, in the event the bank 
before maturity. 

3559 
- 2 * 
The early withdrawal penalty subject to the disclosure provision 
is •? n two parts --,(a) a reduction of the rate of interest paid to the 
Minium permissible passbook rate for the period the deposit is held, and 
(b) a , 
ioss of three months interest. 
The amendment is substantially the same as that proposed for 
Publi r comraent on July 26. Some technical changes have been made in 
Ugh*. 
comment received, 
A copy of the Board's order relating to this matter is attached. 

35G0 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Req. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Protection of Depositors 
On July 26, 1973, the Board of Governors invited public comments 
to bo . 
submitted by August 27, 1973, on a proposed amendment to its Regula-
tion Q . 
to provide that (1) any advertisement, announcement, or solicitation 
at:i-ng to interest paid on time deposits by member banks include clear 
^d c 
n°picuous notice that Federal law and regulation prohibit the bank 
*'c a time deposit before maturity unless certain interest is 
and (2) the bank customer shall be given, at the time that a 
dGPoait is made, a disclosure statement which makes it clear that the 
L 
contracted to leave his funds on deposit for the stated 
, y and which describes how the early withdrawal penalty applies to 
tirne 
^Posits in the bank, in the event the bank, notwithstanding the 
C°atrac<-
Provisions, permits payment before maturity. (38 Federal Register 
Thio amendment to Regulation Q was proposed to be madcMpuraucnt 
l)G board's authority under section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act to 
e rules governing the payment and advertisement of interest on 
S o s i t p 4 
u in member banks. 
f 

3561 
- 2 -
After consideration of all comments received, the Board has 
^-cidcd to adopt the proposal in substantially the same form as proposed 
011 July 26, 1973. 
Effective September 18, 1973, Regulation Q (12 CFR Part 217) 
Is tended in the following respects: 
1. § 217.4 is amended by redesignating paragraph (e) as 
pai"agraph (f) and by adding a new paragraph (e) to read as follows: 
§ y t "j 
j^gyment of time deposits before maturity. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
* 
(e) DisclosureJ>ji_early^.J^jthjrawal penalty, At the time a 
^Posit-o, 
o r enters into a time deposit contract with a member bank, the 
bank si - • 
"ail provide a written statement of the effect of the penalty pre-
in paragraph (d) of this section," which shall (1) state clearly 
that ti 
customer has contracted to keep his funds on deposit for the 
C lnaturity, and (2) describe fully and clearly how such penalty 
p*ovlsln 
• 
apply to time, deposits in such bank, in the event the bank, 
notMt h 
standing the contract provisions, permits payment before maturity, 
statements shall be expressly called to the attention of the customer. 
2. § 217.6 is amended by redesignating paragraphs (e), (f), 
a s (f), (g), and (h) and by adding a new paragraph (e) to read 
t 0 U 0 W S : 

3562 
"3-
217.6 Advertising of interest on deposits* 
(e) Penalty for early withdrawals* Any advertisement, announce-
ment 
» °r solicitation relating to interest paid by a member bank on time 
shall include clear and conspicuous notice that Federal law and 
Yrs 
<"ition prohibit the bank from allowing payment of a time deposit before 
niaturi t 
ACy unless substantial interest is forfeited. Such notice may state 
that, 
"Federal law and regulation prohibit the 
payment of a time deposit prior to maturity unless 
three months of the interest thereon is forfeited 
and interest on the amount withdrawn is rcduc.ed to 
the passbook rate." 
th respect to any advertisement, announcement, or solicitation made.by tele-
fi^railio, the required notice of penalty may be stated in-a form such 
D!31antial interest penalty is required for early withdrawal." 
The effective date was deferred for less than the 30-day period 
rr^d to in Title 5, United States Code, section 553(d), because the 
°und that the public interest compelled it to make the action 
Effect- •(. 
tVc?- no later than the date adopted. See § 262.2(e) of the Board's 
°"s 
Procedure (12 CFR 262,2(e)). 
% order of the Board of Governors, September 12, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
SEAL] 
