MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 6, 1973 

I^t'fl ; 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, March 6, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Acting Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 
Mrs. Semia and Mrs. Scott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

t 
3/6/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. On December 12, 1972, the Board approved 
requests for hearings on protests against bank holding company proposals 
to engage in insurance agency activities. As recommended in a memo-
randum from the Legal Division dated March 1, 19 73, the Board today 
.authorized issuance of an order directing that the hearings be held. 
It was brought out by the staff that the list of specific cases in 
the draft order was subject to some revision. Copies of the order and 
related press release are attached under Item No. 1. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by Governor Robertson in a memo-
randum dated February 23, 19 73, the Board unanimously approved a request 
from the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis that a cease and desist 
order issued against Commerce Bank & Trust Company, Helena, Montana, 
be terminated, since its purpose had been achieved. A copy of the 
letter sent to the Minneapolis Bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on January 18, 1973, of the application of Ellis Banking Corporation, 
Bradenton, Florida, to acquire shares of First Security Bank, also of 
Bradenton, a proposed new bank. A copy of the order is attached as 
.Item No. 3. In a related action on January 18 the Board had approved 
the application of First Security Bank for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as 
Item No. 4. 

3/6/73 
-3-
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on November 28, 1972, of the application of Ellis Banking Corporation, 
Bradenton, Florida, to acquire shares of First National Bank of Hudson, 
Hudson, Florida, a proposed new bank. A copy of the order is attached 
a s Item No. 5, along with a copy of the dissenting statement by Governors 
Robertson and Brimmer. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting denial, 
on January 18, 1973, of the application of First at Orlando Corporation, 
Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of Citrus First National Bank of 
Leesburg, Leesburg, Florida. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of American 
Bancorporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The Continental 
Bank, Continental, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southwest 
Florida Banks, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida, to form a bank holding company 
through acquisition of the following five banks, all in Florida: First 
National Bank in Fort Myers; Beach First National Bank, Fort Myers Beach; 
East First National Bank, Fort Myers; National Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota; 
and National Bank Gulf Gate, Sarasota. Issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision was authorized. 
A copy of the order is attached as 

3/6/73 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northwest 
Iowa Bancorporation, Le Mars, Iowa, to form a bank holding company 
through acquisition of shares of The Lakes National Bank, Arnolds Park, 
Iowa, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Ellis Banking 
Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, to acquire shares of First Park Bank, 
Pinellas Park, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 10. The 
Board conditioned its approval on the immediate elimination of three 
interlocking director relationships existing between First Park Bank 
and several banks within its relevant banking market. A copy of the 
letter informing the applicant of this condition is attached as Item No. 11. 
Pursuant to a recommendation by the Secretary of the Board in 
a memorandum dated March 5, 19 73, the Board unanimously approved the 
appointment of Chester B. Feldberg, Assistant Counsel of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, who had been on loan to the Office of the 
Secretary since mid-January of this year, as an Assistant Secretary of 
the Board, effective immediately and to continue for the remaining 
Period of Mr. Feldberg's service with the Board. Mr. Feldberg's salary 
would continue to be paid by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. A 
copy of the letter informing the Reserve Bank of this action is attached 
as Item No. 12. 

782 
3/6/73 
-5-
As recommended in a memorandum from the Office of Executive 
Director dated March 5, 1973, the Board designated Governor Bucher 
a member of the Federal Reserve Labor Relations Panel to replace 
Governor Mitchell. A copy of the press release announcing the change 
is attached as Item No. 13. 
The Board unanimously approved the establishment by Chairman 
Burns of a Board Committee on Federal Reserve Board officer salaries, 
comprised of Governor Robertson, as Chairman, and Governors Brimmer 
and Sheehan. This action was taken pursuant to a recommendation by 
the Office of the Executive Director in a memorandum of March 5, 1973, 
a copy of which is attached as Item No. 14, along with a memorandum 
from Chairman Burns describing the functions of the Committee. 
As recommended in a memorandum from Mr. Rippey dated March 2, 
1973, the Board approved the suggestion that no position should be 
taken at this time with respect to an amendment being offered by 
Senator Sparkman to a bill to give the Federal Trade Commission increased 
powers to regulate unfair trade practices. The amendment would provide 
that for depository financial institutions the Board and not the 
Commission would write regulations. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Congressional testimony. The Board discussed a draft of 
testimony to be given by Chairman Burns before the Subcommittee on 

4 CK5 
3/6/73 
-6-
International Finance of the House Banking and Currency Committee 
tomorrow. During the discussion several suggestions were made for 
minor changes. It was understood that the statement would be 
presented in a final form satisfactory to Chairman Burns. (A copy 
of the statement as presented has been placed in the Board's files.) 
Payments mechanism. Chairman Fernand J. St Germain of 
the Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance of the House 
Committee on Banking and Currency had written to the Board saying 
that he had been informed that savings and loan associations were 
being excluded from the program developed by the Special Committee 
on Paperless Entries (SCOPE) in California. He inquired whether 
that was true, and if so, whether the exclusion was fair or proper, 
and whether it might violate any State or Federal law. He also 
requested an evaluation of the effect of developing electronic transfer 
systems on the structure and regulation of financial institutions and 
the implementation of monetary policy. A draft reply to Mr. St Germain 
had been distributed. Background information regarding paperless entries 
vs. checks for savings institutions was set forth by the Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations in a memorandum of March 2. 
The subject was presented for consideration today along with 
a companion problem involving the payments system, namely, the recent 
Practice of savings banks in Massachusetts and New Hampshire to offer 
"NOW accounts," in which funds might be transferred from savings deposits 

3/6/73 
-8-
through the use of negotiable orders of withdrawal tantamount to 
checks. Two bills relating to the latter problem had been introduced; 
one sponsored by Mr. St Germain would prohibit such accounts, at least 
for the time being; one sponsored by Senator Mclntyre would legitimize 
them. In a memorandum of February 23, 1973, Mr. Melnicoff discussed 
the status of the controversy regarding NOW accounts and suggested a 
position the Board might take. 
After comments by Mr. Melnicoff on the points involved in 
the position he proposed, Governor Mitchell suggested that the 
discussion be directed to the less-far-reaching issues raised in the 
draft reply to Mr. St Germain. 
The discussion centered upon three principles stated in the 
draft letter: (1) that as a general proposition the Board believed 
that an integrated nationwide mechanism for money transfers was 
desirable; (2) that the Board believed that transfers of money from 
an account in one depository institution to an account in another 
should involve an interface with Federal Reserve facilities at some 
Point to insure that the transfers were handled on an equitable basis; 
and (3) that the costs of the transfer system and the benefits of 
Participating in it should be equitably distributed among all the 
institutions involved. Some rephrasing of these principles was agreed 
upon, the most substantive one being the specification in the first 
Principle of "a single, integrated nationwide mechanism." 

3/6/73 
-9-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was agreed that the 
draft letter, revised to reflect the views expressed, would be sent 
by telegram to the Federal Reserve Banks with a request for their 
comments as soon as possible. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

f.if^l --•>..i> o". \ 
H tr • 
immediate release 
Item No. 1 
3/6/73 
Kerch V, 1973 
•786 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System today 
Greeted that hearings be held on 2? applications by bank holding 
coirpanic;?. to engage in insurance agency activities. 
Requests for the hearings have been received front insurance 
and agencies, and iron organizations representing thein, v;ho 
that they would be Aversely affected by approval of each 
^i'Kcat icn. 
The hearings villi be held at Federal Reserve Bank offices, 
-r ratable locates, at tircea to be design,ted by Adifiin-
native Law Judge Paul Is. ? U i C U c vho has been designated as 
^earinr; officer by the U.S. Civil Service Commission> 
T'be Board directed that anyone desiring to \wU.cl?&Kc 
•in the bearing, including these who have already filed objections 
to nn application, should file a v-itten request vlth the Secretin7 
the Koaxd by March 30, 1073. 
Attache 5a a copy of r.na Board's order in this matter 
^ncludiug the list of ariO.icfcti.crs on ubicb bearing vili be 
:Chech/: 
. 
0-
A f; f 
- v-ac anient 

787 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Notice of Hearings or* Individual Applications to Engage in 
Insurance. Agency Activities 
Notice is hereby given that the Bofrd of Governors of 
tile Federal Reserve System has granted requests for hearings on 
aPPlicatlons, listed below, to engage in insurance agency activi-
tl°3 pursuant to § 4(c)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C, 
?-^v3(c>(10) and 
225.4(b)(1) and (2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
(1?- CPU 225.4(b) (1) and (2)).^ Objections to each of the appli-
'ation,« e.vO» requests for a hearing thereon have been received from 
nfHu;t'.rvce agents or agencies, who assert they would be adversely 
gi fr , 
. 
••^-•creo by approval of each application and from organizations 
G'och ager.Lo or &£cnclcd. Amen?, the objection?, are 
Alrfifl that the proposed activities are not closely related to 
within the terms of § 225.4(a)(9) of Regulation Y, which 
^°oignatea certain insurance agency activities as closely related 
t o banking (12 022. 225.4(a)(9)) and that in each instance approval 
C1 
• ttlc application to engage in insurance agency activities would 
110L 
in the public interest. 
The following arc the applications involved: 
I Jls 3vc_jUnik of. Boston 
•I' Worcester Bancorp., Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, to engage 
do novo in certain insurance agency activities at 34 locations 
Xj J.v;o oJ: the applications were originally filed pursuant to § 225.4(b)(3) 
"a>.ch was suspended prior to action on the applications. 

I: 
i 
"1 
.
.
. 
In Massachusetts at which Worcester Bancorp*, Inc., or its 
subsidiaries arc otherwise engaged j.n business, through a 
1 
:' 
subsidiary known as Womat Insurance Agency, Inc, 
•}2ejeral^j^ns ervc Bank of_ Ne-W^York 
? 
rn 
The Chase Manhattan Corporation, Hew York, New York, to 
engage de novo in. certain insurance agency activities at 
offices of Dovenmuehle lieu York, Inc., New York, New York, 
a subsidiary of Dovenmuehle, Inc., Nev? York, New York, 
which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of The Chase Manhattan 
Corporation, 
'H 
3 
i'he Chase Muubattau Corporation. Mew York, New York, to 
engage <]s novo in certain insurance, agency activities at 
seven offices in Florida at which its subsidiary, Housing 
Investment Corporation of Florida, Miami, Florida, engages 
in business, 
ojj a ^ 
eve land 
A 
Pittsonrgh National Corporation., Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, 
to engage de jvoyo in certain insurance agency activities 
at a location in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, through a sub-
sidiary known as Bankers Insurance Services, Inc. 
'••^Soral Reserve Bank of Richmond 
* 
--
ootYiinxon Bank shares Corporation, Roanoke. % Virginia, to engage 
in certain insurance agency activities through the acquisition 
of: Fit ton Insurance Agency, I tie,. AXe>:.4ndr.t-i, Virginia» 
(l\uii.u*»ion Bank-.hares Corporation has liled a companion 

application to acquire The Fit tori Company. Alexandria, 
Virginia, which, if denied or withdrawn, would moot the 
abov e ap p 1 i ca t io n c) 
J^d era 1 \XegetveJjank of Atlanta 
BarnetC Banks of Florida, inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to 
eng.-ifte de novo in certain insurance agency activities at 
of£icea in Florida at which Harnett Banks of Florida, Inc.,, 
or its subsidiaries are otherwise engaged in business, 
h 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc,, Jacksonville, Florida, to 
engage do now in certain insurance agency activities at six 
locations in Florida and one location in Texas through a 
subsidiary to by known as Birnc-tt Uinbton Insurance Agency, 
Inc, 
First National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, to engage 
de novo in certain insurance agency activities at two 
locations in Georgia through a subsidiary, Tharpe & Brooks 
Incorporated, Atlanta, Georgia, and its registered trade 
style, First South Insurance Agency, 
o 
Central and State national Corporation of. Alabama, Birmingham, 
Alabama, to engage dc novo In certain insurance agency activi-
ties at a location in Birmingham, Alabama, through a subsidiary 
known as CSN Underwriters, Inc. 
Th<> Alabama Financial Group, Inc., Birmingham, Alabama (for-
merly known as JVENB Coi.poratvion) „ to eiifcage de nova in cevfcnin 

790 
-3-
insnranee agency activities at a location in Birmingham, 
Alabama, through a subsidiary known as Alabama Financial 
Insurance Agency, Inc., 
— C i t i z e n s arid Southern Holding Company, Atlanta, Georgia, a 
subsidiary of Citizens and Southern National Bank, Atlanta, 
Georgia, to engage de novo in certain insurance agency 
activities at offices of The Citizens and Southern National 
'-•an I- or Citlr.enn and Southern Holding Company, and at the 
ofrices of subsidiaries thereof, through a subsidiary known 
as The Citizens and Southern Agency. (Applicant seeks to e*> 
P'-iio the activities of Ti e Citizens and Southern Agency x?hich 
approved prior to the 1S70 Amendments of the. Bank Huldirg 
Company Act, See 
rve Bulletin 673 (19C9)), 
12 
" 
0 Palroev Bank. Corporation, Sarasota, Florida, to engage de nc>vc 
c o r , : a i n insurance, agency activities at offices in Sarasota, 
fort Myers, and Naples, Florida, through a subsidiary known 
a u Coastal Mortgage Company. 
^ 
i-'an Anc-ricau Bancshares, Inc.., Miami, Florida, to engage in 
aortain insurance agency activities through the acquisition 
°f Atico Financial Corporation, Miami., Florida, 
PJL ttwsery9_ B'ujik o£ St ^ J.ou 1 s 
M 
r-na?>cia3 Development Cos.Pany, Southaven, Mississippi, to 
engage ac uovo ir» certain iunitranac agency activities in 
Southaven, MlnrJ.sstppi, through a subs id lory fovrou as FNR 
iu arico A gcncy« 

County National Bancorporation, Clayton, Missouri, to 
engage in certain insurance agency activities through 
the acquisition of General Mortgage Company of St. Louis, 
St. Ann, Missouri. (Applicant has requested separate 
Board consideration of the insurance agency activities. 
Withdrawal, or denial cf. the application to acquire the 
mortgage company would nont the insurance agency issues.) 
Affiliated Bunksharea of Colorado, Inc., Boulder, Colorado 
to continue to engage in certain insurance agency activi-
ties through the retention ol! Insurance Proitession&Js, Inc. 
Love land, Colorado. Applicant will engage in such activi-
ties at U offices of its hanking and nonhanking subsid-
iaries in Colorado, 
l ; m 
> Lincoln, Nebraskaj to engage de n o w in 
certain insurance agency activities at an office in 
Lincoln, Nebraska, through a subsidiary known as KBC 
Agency, Inc. 
The First National Bamiorpctation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
to engage de novo in certain Jnnmance agency activities 
at offices of The Firnt National incorporation, Inc., 
and its subsidiaries in Colorado, through a subaicUary 
to be known as First. Denver Assurors Company 

f V-.V'v, ' 
-6-
Bank of Snn yrrnciaco 
i^* Southern California First National Corporation, San Diego, 
California, to ensage da novo in certain insurance agency 
v IWwu WAtewW.tf* 
activities at an office in San Diego, California, through 
a subsidiary known as Stf C„ National Associates * 
liariue Bancorporation, Seattle3 Washington, to engage 
in certain insurance agency activities at two offices 
in Seattle of its whoX.Iy-owned subsidiary, Commerce Credit 
Goinpa!\yS eat tlu, \?a shington • 
Orbanco> Inet, Portland, Oregon, to engage in ccxtain insur-
ance agency activities through the acquisition of Far West 
Securities 
, Snotcnne, Washington, at offices ef Far We.it 
Securities Coe (Applicant has rec-aeste^ separate Boaro con-
cideration of the insurance agency activities from the mort-
gage company activities involved in the application,. With-
drawal or denial of the proposed mortgage company acquisition 
would 7.10oi: the insurance agency issues P) 
7') ~ 
.
.
. 
i at agon in Corporation, Tuscon, Arizona, to engage in cercain 
insurance agency activities through the acquisition of 
Western American Insurance Agency, Phoenix, Arizona 
1.4-Js hereby prder ed that, pursuanc to g 4(c)(8) of the L'snk 
loldiag Company Act, a hearing be held with respect to each applica*- . 
ycx lifted above* to be conduci ed In accordance with the 

Board's Rules of Practice for Formal Hearings (12 CFR 263). Admin-
istrative Law Judge Paul M. Pfeiffer has been designated as the 
hearing officer by the United States Civil Service Commission. Hear 
on the individual applications will be held at such Federal 
Reserve Bank offices and at such times as may be designated by the 
A<3ministrp.rive Law Judge. The right is reserved to the Board and 
the Administrative Law Judge to designate any other places for such 
nenringe or any part thereof that: may be determined to be necessary 
an-d appropriate. 
Section 263.6(d) of the Board's Rules of Practice, for 
Ueariags (32 CPU 263,6(d)) provider, in part "Onlcss other-
wise specifically provided by statute, or by rule of the Board, & 
hearing aha 11 ordinarily he. private and should be attended only 
'V the parties, their representatives or counsel, representatives 
Board, witnesses while testifying, and other persons having 
official interest in vhe proceedings: Provided t however ? that on 
Written request by a party or a representative of the Board, or 
° u 
Board's own motion, the. Board in its discretion and to the 
eXtent permitted by law may permit other persons to attend or may 
°rder the hearing to be public." 
Any person, including those who have already filed objec-
tion to en application, desiring to give testimony, present evidence 
f't otherwise participate In. these-, proceedin^a should file, with 

c a e Secretarys Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, 
^shington, D. C, 30551> on cr before March 30, 1973, a uritc.m 
quest containing a statement of the nature of the petitioner's 
"Merest in the proceedings, the extent of the participation 
dgn.;,, . 
a summary of the matters concerning which petitioner 
H's to give testimony or submit evidence and the names and 
A;°-'-txty of v?i.tn esses who propose to appear* All requests 
eceivedj together with the applications and the objections end 
tcpost& to intervene heretofore received, will be presented to 
Uf -i Administrative Law Judge, who will thereafter schedule such 
n fe^h Ci-n v % 
f 
ccnfetenecs as are necessary. 
The applications may be inspected at the respective 
^-eraX Reserve Bank of the applicants or at the Federal Reserve 
20th Street and Constitution Avenue, H.W., Washington, 
Gr, 
By order of the Board of Governors, March f>5 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSJvU.l 

io 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
, 
Item No. 
d f t h e 
3/6/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 2055J 
AOHRCRS Off i CIA L C3Rf)fS?OMOENCE 
TD THE UCIAPD 
March 6, 1973 
Mr. Joseph R. Vogel 
Chief Examiner 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 55480 
Dear Mr. Vogel: 
Pursuant to your letter of February 9. 1973, and the 
request of Commerce Bank & Trust Company, Helena, Montana, the 
vc] of Governors has directed that the Cease and Desist Order 
• ^suecl Upon Consent of Commerce Bank Uncler the Financial Institu 
.l'loxls Supervisory Act of 19G6 on September 14, 1972 , be, and 
hereby is, terminated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

7 9 r > 
Item No. 3 
3/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
| 
ELLIS BANKING- CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, a bank holding 
! 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of First Security Bank, Bradenton, Florida, a proposed new bank ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 16 banks with aggregate deposits of $447.3 
m i lUon, representing 2.6 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in 
Florida, and is the eighth largest banking organization in the State. (Bank 
dePosit data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved through December 31, 1972.) Applicant competes 
tn seven major banking markets in Florida and its respective position in 
th°se major markets are as follows: St. Petersburg, 3.4 per cent of deposits; 
Clearwater-Tarpon Springs, 10.7 per cent; Manatee County, 27.2 per cent; 
Sarasota, 34.2 per cent; Tampa, 2.0 per cent; New Port Richey, 80.9 per cent; 
atld East Pasco County, 20.9 per cent. 
Bank would be located in the Manatee County banking market in west 
e^tral Florida where Applicant, as indicated above, has 27.2 per cent of 

-2-
797 
total commercial bank deposits through control of the largest and the smallest 
in the market. These two banks are located 3.3 miles north and 4.9 
^iles southeast, respectively, from the proposed new bank site. Of the nine 
banks in the banking market, the second and third largest, controlling 24,1 
and 18.9 per cent, respectively, are members of the first and sixth largest 
bank holding companies in the State. All banks in the market have demonstrated 
abUity to secure shares of deposit growth and, accordingly, competition 
between them and Applicant should be enhanced. Inasmuch as Bank is a 
Proposed new bank, no existing competition would be eliminated between Bank 
and Applicant«s subsidiaries; future competition should be nominal due to 
Bank's proposed immediate service area (two-mile radius) coupled with the 
existe.nce of three banks in the areas between Applicant's present subsidiary 
banks and Bank. Further, it appears that consummation of the proposal would 
n 
1/ 
o t have an adverse effect on any competing bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant and its subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory. Future 
Pr°spects of Bank also appear favorable; its financial and managerial resources 
a r e dependent upon Applicant which, as noted above, are generally satisfactory. 
The banking needs of the relevant area are presently being served 
existing organizations. Approval of this application would provide a more 
b' It has been suggested by opponents to this acquisition that consummation 
£rrein w^uld result in enlarging Applicant's already dominant position in this 
,lo*ida uvirket. The facts of record reveal that Southeast Banking Corporation, 
thcough its subsidiary, Manatee National Bank, Bradenton, controls 
c<iI . o f t h e market deposits while First Financial Corporation, Tampa, 
^ough its subsidiary, Intercity National Bank, Bradenton, controls 18.9 
cent. (Intercity National Bank and Bayshore State Bank, Bradenton, have 
f l o c k i n g officers and directors; Bayshore has an additional 4.1 per cent 
the market deposits.) These figures when compared to Applicant's 27.2 
cent control of deposits indicate that Applicant does not now have a 
^0lnlnant position in the market and formation of the proposed new bank 
°ul<i not immediately increase this percentage. 

22 
-3-
convenient source of banking services to area residents and business establish-
ments. Further, approval would insure adequate future banking services in light 
of the substantial growth experienced in Manatee County and the future 
2j 
Projections of a continued rapid rate of expansion. 
Therefore, considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the area to be served are consistent 
with approval herein. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application should be 
aPproved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
bQfore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
0r (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) First Security Bank, 
bradenton, Florida, shall be opened for business not later than six months 
after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described in 
"p From the facts of record, the Board finds that Applicant is not attempting 
Pre-empt a bank site before a need exists. The Comptroller of the 
hUrrency denied an application by the Manatee National Bank of Bradenton on 
-arch 15, 1971 f o r a national bank to be located in the same service area as 
r*at of Bank. Since that time, however, the Florida State Commissioner of 
joking granted initial approval in July and August, 1972 of two applications 
°r new bank charters in Manatee County (including that of Applicant). The 
^missioner's approval of the aforementioned applications is consistent with 
Board's finding that the subject area is now experiencing rapid commercial 
nd residential growth with a developing need for additional banking facilities. 

-2-
and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
*^rve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors," effective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ESEAL] 
3/ ~ "—-—-
^ 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell, 
ane> Brimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. 

800 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 4 
3/6/73 
• F T H EI 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
ADORESn O r r I C ! A U COf KCEfONDENCc 
1 Cl THE C Q Ao 
March 7, 1973 
Board of Directors 
I'irst Security Bank 
Bradenton, Florida 
Centiemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of. First Security Bank, Bradenton, 
Florida, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
hereinafter set forth; 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause or permit-
any change to be made in the general character of 
its business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net: capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $600,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$400,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particu1ar attencion is ca1led to chc provis1ons-of 11ie Eoard's 
'Regulation H, regarding membership of Z\.l-.':c banking institutions in 
the. Federal Reserve System, with especial reference, to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

First Security Bank 
- 2 -
i 
If at: any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise, the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents! involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained 
in this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the 
board of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization 
to commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together^ 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Arrange-
ments will thereupon be made to accept; payment for an appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the 
required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve. System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is 
advised the t all of the requirements have been complied wi c.h and that 
the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a forma 1 certificate 
r-»f membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time re discuss with representatives of your 
Km!c means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

Item No. 
3/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8 0 2 
ELLIS BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) 
of First National Bank of Hudson, Hudson, Florida, a proposed new bank 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 30>) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
arid the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 16 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$447-3 million,"'' representing 2.6 per cent of the total commercial bank 
deP0sits in Florida, and Is the eighth largest banking organization in 
the State. Inasmuch as Bank is a proposed new bank, no existing 
C0TnPetition would be eliminated nor would the concentration level of 
resources be immediately increased in any relevant area. 
Bank would be competing in the New Port Richey banking market 
an estimated 65,000 people located in the western portion of Pasco 
C°unty on Florida's west coast. Applicant is the largest banking 
Bank 
deposit data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company 
Nations and acquisitions approved through December 31, 1972. 

-2-
803 
°rganization in the relevant market and controls, through two subsidiary 
banks (located 6-1/2 and 7 miles south, respectively, from the proposed 
bank site), 80.9 per cent of total deposits as of June 30, 1972. Several 
factors have caused Applicant's dominance in the market area to be reduced 
in recent years. The establishment of two new banks since 1970 reduced 
Applicant's share of total deposits from 100 per cent to 80.9 per cent as of 
June 30, 1972. 
Even this percentage is somewhat overstated because, since 
that date, two additional banks have been opened. Population in the market 
area increased 266.4 per cent from 1960 to 1970, and total deposits expanded 
313.7 per cent from 1967 to 1971. Much of this growth in population and 
total deposits was due to the immigration of retirees into Pasco County 
UhiCh has the highest per cent of persons over 65 years old in Florida—31 
P e r cent. In view of the expected large population increases and accompanying 
growth in deposits, it appears that the market will continue to remain attrac-
t s f o r de novo entry as evidenced by the new banks which recently opened 
ln the area. Accordingly, it appears that consummation of the proposal herein 
Vould not adversely alter the competitive situation nor the concentration of 
Sources in the market, nor is there any evidence that Applicant is attempting 
tn Pre-empt a site before there is a need for a bank. 
The unincorporated community of Hudson with a currently estimated 
PoPulation of 2,800 has no commercial banking facility at the present time, 
approval of this application would provide a more convenient source of 
banking services to its residents. Therefore, considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the area to be served lend support to 
aPproval of the application. 

804 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
subsidiary banks are generally Satisfactory; Bank, as a proposed new bank, 
tas no operating history but its projected earnings and growth under 
2/ 
applicant's control appear favorable. 
Banking factors are consistent 
with approval of this application. It is the Board's judgment that the 
Proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the application 
shouid be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) First National 
Ba^k of Hudson, Hudson, Florida, shall be opened for business not later than 
s t x months after the effective date of this Order. Each of the periods 
Ascribed in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
$3 
has projected, and not unreasonably, that Bank will grow to 
million in total deposits during the first three years of operation, 
iid 
n g f o r t h i s a c t i o n ! 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, 
^ 
®ucher. Dissenting from this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
Sent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

29 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We dissent from the majority's action today in approving the 
acquisition of a de novo bank by an Applicant having 80.9 per cent con-
trol of commercial deposits in the relevant market area. 
Prior to May, 1970, Applicant controlled 100 per cent of total 
commercial bank deposits in the market; thereafter, its share dropped to 
85-5 per cent at year end 1971 and to 80.9 per cent by June 30, 1972. A 
rare competitive situation exists in that all four of the banks that com-
P^te with Applicant's two subsidiaries in the market have been in existence 
less than two years and ten months. (Three of those four banks opened for 
business during 1972—one in March, another in July, and the third in 
October.) Approval of this application will reverse, or at least retard, 
trend of deconcentration which began in 1970. 
The Courts have recognized that de novo activity by the dominant 
Or8anization in the market may be a device for "excluding" competitors from 
that market. In United States v. Alcoa, 148 F. 2d 416 (2d Cir. 1945), 
Ju<i8e Learned Hand wrote: 
It was not inevitable that it should always antici-
pate increases in the demand for ingot and be prepared 
to supply them. Nothing compelled it to keep doubling 
and redoubling its capacity before others entered the 
field. It insists that it never excluded competitors; but 
we can think of no more effective exclusion than progressively 
to embrace each new opportunity as it opened, and to face 
every newcomer with new capacity already geared into a great 
organization, having the advantage of experience, trade 
connections and the elite of personnel. Only in case we 
interpret "exclusion" as limited to maneuvers not honestly 
industrial, but actuated solely by a desire to prevent 
competition, can such a course, indefatigably pursued, 
be deemed not "exclusionary." So to limit it would in 
our judgment emasculate the Act: would permit just such 
consolidations as it was designed to prevent. 148 F. 2d 
at 431. 

-2-
806 
This doctrine has also been recognized by the Board in 
decisions under the Bank Holding Company Act. In its denial of an appli-
Cation of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, 
to acquire a proposed new bank, the Board stated: 
In the present case, consummation of the proposal would 
result in expansion of the dominant banking organization in 
Milwaukee County and would tend to preclude entry which could 
lessen the extent of Applicant's dominance in the county, and 
provide competition to offices of Applicant's present sub-
sidiaries which serve the immediate area. 1968 F.R. Bulletin 
at 1026. 
In addition, the three newly-formed banks in the market will be 
Placed at a disadvantage in attempting to compete with the established 
applicant banks; these new banks should be permitted an opportunity to 
commence business and become viable without having the market's dominant 
0r8anization "embrace each new [market] opportunity" as it arises. 
In our opinion, considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served—upon which the majority relies—are 
n°t being viewed in the proper perspective. It is not disputed that the 
West coast of Florida and particularly the New Port Richey banking market 
are experiencing a significant increase in population which will at some 
P°int necessitate additional banking facilities. In fact, the population 
of this banking market is projected to increase by 80 per cent from 1970-
l975 and by 42 per cent from 1975 to 1980.~ 
Yet, after the introduction 
of Bank, the population per banking office will be 9,286, and total deposits 
Per office will be $15.6 million, compared to State averages of 13,579 and 
^ 
Soi^c~e: The"Pasco County Parks and Open Space Advisory Committee, 
February 18, 1972. 

807 
-3-
$27.9 million, respectively. Further, focusing upon the unincorporated 
community of Hudson, the site of the proposed new bank, we find 2,800 
Residents adequately served by other banks in this area, the closest being 
3/4 of a mile outside the town limits. Accordingly, convenience and needs 
considerations, while entitled to some weight, do not outweigh the signifi-
cant anticompetitive effects resulting from this acquisition. 
On the basis of the record, it is our judgment that the proposed 
acquisition would not be in the public interest and therefore the applica-
tion should be denied. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST AT ORLANDO CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 10 
3/6/73 
First at Orlando Corporation, Orlando, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, has applied for the Boardfs approval under § 3(a)(3) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting 
shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of Citrus First 
National Bank of Leesburg, Leesburg, Florida, a proposed new 
bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
irit* 
terested persons to submit comments and views, has been 
Siven in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for 
fi-ling comments and views has expired, and the Board has 
Cor*sidered the application and all comments received in light 
of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the second largest banking organization in 
F] °*ida, controls 32 banks which hold aggregate deposits of 
$1 •1 billion, representing 6.6 per cent of the total deposits 
in 
commercial banks in the State. (Unless otherwise indicated, 
diking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding com-
acquisitions and formations approved by the Board through 
Member 31, 1972.) The First National Bank of Leesburg ("First 
®ank")> a subsidiary of Applicant, holds approximately 24 per cent 
Of ^ae total deposits held by commercial banks located in the North 
Y 
e County banking market; Applicant ranks thereby aa the second 

809 
-2-
largest banking group and the largest bank holding company in the 
market. First Bank ($34 million deposits) is the largest of nine 
banks in the market, and the largest of three banks within the 
immediate Leesburg area, with approximately 61 per cent of deposits 
itl that area. In addition, through other subsidiary banks, 
applicant controls 43 per cent of deposits in the neighboring 
Orlando banking market (south of Lake County) and is the largest 
ba^king organization in that market; and Applicant controls 35 
cent of the neighboring Ocala banking market (north of Lake 
C°Utlty) and is the largest banking organization in that market 
as well. 
Bank is proposed to be located in the city of Leesburg 
i n northern Lake County in central Florida. The three banks presently 
Seated in the city of Leesburg (which includes one subsidiary bank 
0 f applicant) appear to compete in the North Lake County banking 
ma*ket, which is approximated by the Golden Triangle area (which 
iricludes the towns of Tavares, Eustis, Mount Dora, and Umatilla) 
the area immediately surrounding and including the city of 
^esburg. First Bank (Applicant's subsidiary) is located in the 
°Vt*town area of Leesburg 1.6 miles east of the proposed site of 
Citizens National Bank of Leesburg ($21 million deposits), 
°cated 5 miles northeast from the proposed location of Bank, holds 
^Proximately 39 per cent of deposits in the Leesburg area and is 
Part* r 
of the largest banking organization in the market which holds 
^Proximately 35 per cent of deposits in North Lake County. 

810 
-3-
Lake Eustis separates the Leesburg area from much of the 
G°lden Triangle area, but two major roads, one passing Lake Eustis 
0tl the north and one on the south, connect the two areas, and all 
the major towns in the Golden Triangle area are within a radius of 
twenty-two miles of Leesburg. Residential and commercial development 
occurred recently just west of the Golden Triangle area toward 
^esburg, just east of Leesburg toward the Golden Triangle area, 
in the intervening area between Leesburg and the Golden Triangle 
Further development is expected in this intervening area, spurred 
In 
part by the expected construction of a community college approximately 
midway along the major road joining Leesburg and the Golden Triangle 
area. In view of the foregoing, commuting patterns in Lake County, 
the responsiveness of Leesburg banks to changes in the banking 
charges ar.d services at the other banks in North Lake County, the 
Board regards the relevant banking market in the present case as 
^0rth Lake County. 
Since Applicant's proposal involves the establishment 
0 f a new bank which will be opened only in the event of approval of 
th 
e appiiC£t£0[lj no existing competition nor potential competition 
between Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank would be eliminated by 
Proposal, and there would be no immediate increase in banking 
e°icentration in any area. However, in addition, the Board is con-
cerned and has focused its attention particularly on the competitive 
*^ects of Applicant's proposal on the Leesburg portion of the relevant 
arket, wherein Applicant alr©a<ly control» over 60 per cent of the deposits. 

811 
-3-
Tlie Leesburg area, as a result of its location on Highway 
27, one of the major highway approaches to the newly-opened Disney 
World complex, its proximity to Disney World, approximately 42 miles 
t o the southeast, and increases in the retirement population of the 
a*ea, has experienced increased economic activity over the past two 
years. This growth has occurred primarily in the portion of leesburg 
*est 0f t h e downtown area, and Bank would be located close to the 
Intersection of Highway 27 and Route 441, the major highway connecting 
^esburg with the Golden Triangle area. A new bank, the third in 
tl^e area, opened in August, 1972, and is located on Route 27 less 
than one mile to the north of the proposed location of Bank, Deposits 
ir* Leesburg banks increased by approximately 30 per cent during 1971, 
ar*d total deposits of all banks in the North Lake County market 
Increased by approximately 43 per cent during the period from June, 
l970 to June, 1972. 
However, in spite of this activity, the population of Leesburg 
ha 
s remained somewhat stable, increasing about 5 per cent (11,172 to 
11.879) from 1960 to 1970, and it appears that the Leesburg and the 
No*th Lake County banking market already have an adequate number of 
banking offices in comparison to the rest of the State. Presently, 
there are an average 13,579 persons per banking office in the State 
Florida. In Leesburg, the present ratio is 8,940 persons per bank-
office; should the proposed transaction be consummated, the ratio 
w°uld drop to 6,930 persons per banking office, approximately half 
t h e State average. The ratio of population to banking offJ.ce in the 

-5 
North Lake County banking market is approximately 6,317 to one and 
v°uld become 5,685 to one if Bank were to open. Subsequent to the 
granting of a charter to Bank, two groups withdrew charter applica-
tions for locations in the Leesburg area apparently in the belief 
that the Leesburg area could not support an additional bank. The facts 
tend to support this belief. Lake County Bank, which opened in 
August, 1972, has experienced heavy start-up operating losses, 
Educing its undivided profits account by half, and has encountered 
difficulties in attracting local deposits. In commenting on the 
instant application, Lake County Bank has asserted that the opening 
o f Bank at a location of approximately .7 miles distant from its own 
office could seriously jeopardize its viability. In view of the 
Past experiences, the Board finds that approval of this applica-
tion is likely to have the effect of hindering significantly the 
abUity 0f L a k e county Bank to establish itself as a viable competitor 
n the market. The Board has previously denied applications where 
th 
e establishment of a de novo bank by a bank hoJ ding company with 
atl already strong competitive position would have such an effect 
adversely affecting the competitive position of a smaller or 
^cently-opened bank.-^ While the Board will not act simply to 
pr°tact an ineffective competitor from its own inability to success-
fully compete, the Board will not sanction the efforts of the area's 
^^^"statement accompanying Order of December 20, 1957, denying Applica-
°n of Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation to Acquire Shares of Proposed 
apital National Bank of Milwaukee (44 Fed. Res. Bull. 15 (1958)); State-
^ £t accompanying Order of March 23, 1967, denying Application of First 
^ational Corporation to Acquire Shaves of Proposed First National Bank 
®8t ( 5 3 Fed. Res. Bull. 582 (1967)). 

813 
-3-
dominant banking organization to solidify its position in the 
area at the direct expense of a newly emerging competitor. 
Given the present state of banking concentration in 
the area, the Board is of the view that the probable effect of 
opening at this time of a new bank at the proposed location 
by Applicant, which appears to be dominant in the Leesburg area, 
a s well as in neighboring banking markets, and possesses consider-
able market power in the North Lake County banking m a r k e t w o u l d 
b e to reduce further the likelihood of a deconcentration of bank-
in8 resources in the Leesburg area and the North Lake County bank-
market. The U. S. Supreme Court, in another context, has noted 
that "if concentration is already great, the importance of . . . 
Preserving the possibility of eventual deconcentration is correspond-
ingly g r e a t T h e elimination of such a possibility, even as a 
result of de novo entry, may be substantially to lessen competition. 
Th 
e Board has acted against the establishment of a de novo bank by a 
^ With approximately 24 per cent of market deposits, Applicant is 
*arkSeC°nd l a r g e s t hanking group controlling the largest bank in the 
• The largest banking group controls 35 per cent of market 
Posits and the third largest group and bank in the market holds 
^Proximately 14 per cent of market deposits. Therefore, of the 
t^ V e n hanking organizations in the North Lake County banking market, 
and t h r e e l a r8 e s t control approximately 73 per cent of market deposits, 
3, the two largest control approximately 59 per cent of market deposits. 
•ftgSSlted States v. Philadelphia National Bank, 374 U.S. 321, 365 n. 42 

38 
folding company in an area in uhich the bank holding company is con-
sidered donlinant.—^ This has been the case even where a real need for 
a new bank has been clearly and convincingly established.—^ 
Inasmuch as entry into a commercial bank-
ing market is restricted, opportunities 
for deconcentration are limited. This is 
particularly true in a State. . .where 
branching is highly restricted. If every 
newly developing need for banking facilities 
which arises in a concentrated market were ' 
to be filled by the market's dominant organi-
zation, any meaningful deconcentration of the 
market's banking resources would be made impos-
sible, and further concentration might be en-
couraged. Each application by such an organi-
zation to expand within its present trade area, 
even through acquisition of a new bank, must 
therefore be examined to determine its probable 
effect on existing concentration, whether it 
will foreclose an opportunity for new entry 
which could provide additional competition 
and possibly promote a decrease in concentra-
tion, and its effect in limiting the develop-
ment of existing competitors located in or 
near the area to be served by the new institu-
tion.^ 
In addition to the effect consummation of the proposed 
transaction is expected to have on at least one existing competitor 
i n the Leesburg area and the perpetuation of a high degree of banking 
- S e e Statement accompanying Order of January 4, 1966, denying Applica-
a of Central Wisconsin Bankshares, Inc. to acquire Shares of Proposed 
antral National Bank of Stettin (52 Fed. Res. Bull. 29 (1966)). 
£ See Statement accompanying Order of November 27, 1968, denying Applica-
on of First Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation to Acquire Shares of Pro-
(I9gg^irst Wisconsin National Bank of Greenfield (54 Fed. Res. Bull. 1024 
% ^ a t e m e n t accompanying Order of July 2, 1968, approving Application 
*irst Wisconsin Bankshares Corporation to Acquire Shares of Proposed 
N°rthwestern National Bank of Milwaukee (54 Fed. Res. Bull. 645. 
^7-48 (1Q68))# 

815 
-3-
c°acentration, the proposal would eliminate the possibilities for 
increased competition and a deconcentration of banking resources 
by reducing the opportunity for new entry by a bank organization 
n°t already represented in the market—an alternative that the Board 
considers to be clearly preferable to the proposal herein. The 
Receipt of a charter by the organizers of Bank was apparently one 
o f the factors that resulted in the abandonment of charter applica-
tion plans by two other banking groups. In view of Applicant's 
already existing market position in Leesburg, Applicant's entry 
the proposal herein can be expected to have even a more formidable 
effect on entry plans of the two groups mentioned above or on others. 
ls factor alone provides substantial weight for the denial of this 
j 
application 
in the absence of any countervailing considerations.— 
On the basis of the foregoing and other facts of record, 
tbe Board concludes that consummation of the proposed transaction 
'°uld adversely affect the development of ccmpetition in the 
^esburg area and the North Lake County banking market by 
Jeopardizing the competitive ability of Lake County Bank and 
foreclosing entry by other banking organizations and thereby 
perpetuatiag a high level of concentration of banking resources. 
view of such conclusions, the Board is precluded from approving 
the 
application unless the anti-competitive effects are outweighed 
by °ther factors in the record. 
^etiw* Statement accompanying Order of October 19, 1970, 
Sh 
Application of Security Finnnoinl Services, Inc. to Acquire 
o f Proposed Security West Side Bank (56 I^d. Res. Bull. 834 

816 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
o f Appiicant and its subsidiary banks appear generally satisfactory, 
as do financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Bank, which would be dependent upon assistance from Applicant, These 
^actors are consistent with, but lend no weight toward, approval of 
t h e application* 
The banking needs of the Leesburg and North Lake County 
a r e a s a r e presently being adequately met by the already existing bank-
ia8 institutions. The recent opening of the Lake County Bank suggests 
that those needs will continue to be met in the reasonably foreseeable 
uture. Bank would serve as a more convenient source of banking 
Se*vices for a number of residents of west Leesburg who are presently 
Customers of First Bank in that Bank would be located approximately 
ae and one-half miles closer to them. However, there is no evidence 
that )-L j 
cnis distance causes those residents any great hardship; further-
more *-u 
> the Board does not regard this slight (almost insignificant) 
ia 
cteaSe in convenience as outweighing the adverse competitive effects 
Cerent in the proposed transaction. 
On the basis of all relevant facts in the record, and in 
h e Ught of the factors set forth in section 3(c) of the Act, it 
is j-l 
n e Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would have 
dverse effects on competition, without any significant offsetting 
nefits under considerations relating to the banking factors or 
the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served. Accordingly, 

-10-
_ 817 
Board concludes that consummation of the proposal would not 
b e in the public interest and that the application should be, 
a nd the application is hereby, denied. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
8/ 
Tj Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

. _ 
818 
Item No. 7 
3/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
American Bancorporation, Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding company 
wi-thin the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to 
acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) of The Continental Bank, Continental, Ohio ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accor-
dance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and none has been timely received. The Board has 
considered the application in light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls five banks with deposits of $27.4 million, 
representing one-tenth of l^per cent of aggregate deposits of commer-
cial banks in Ohio. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
October 31, 1972.) Upon acquisition of Bank with deposits of $6.7 
m iUion Applicant would continue to rank as the smallest bank 
Elding company in the State. 

_ 81.') 
-2-
Bank serves the northern section of Putnam County and the 
village of Oakwood in Paulding County. Three other banks serve the 
market area and hold total deposits of $8.6, $7.2, and $4.2 million, 
respectively, each serving its own agricultural community. The 
closest offices of Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiary 
hanks are 35 miles apart, and no meaningful present competition 
exists between these or any of Applicant's offices and Bank. Fur-
thermore, it does not appear that significant future competition 
w°uld develop between them in view of their wide separation and 
the restrictions placed on branching by Ohio laws. Competitive 
considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
subsidiary banks, and Bank are considered to be generally satis-
factory, and their prospects appear favorable. Banking factors 
a r e consistent with approval of the application. The primary 
hanking needs of the area appear to be satisfactorily served at 
the present time. However, Applicant proposes to improve Bank's 
Present services by its assistance in providing larger loans for 
Customers, improvement of present parking facilities, and the 
installation of a drive-up teller window. Considerations relat-
e s to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served 
are consistent with and lend some support to approval of the 
aPPlication. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of 
the proposed transaction would be in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 

, 
8 2 0 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
and « 0 t i n g f o r t h i s 
Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Robertson. 

Item No. 
10 
3/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHWEST FLORIDA BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Southwest Florida Banks, Inc., Fort Myers, Florida, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding 
company through acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
of the following five banks, all in Florida: (1) First National Bank in 
p°rt Myers, Fort Myers ("Fort Myers Bank")? (2) Beach First National Bank, 
p°rt Myers Beach ("Beach Bank"); (3) East First National Bank, Fort Myers 
("East Bank"); (4) National Bank of Sarasota, Sarasota ("Sarasota Bank"); 
a n d (5) National Bank Gulf Gate, Sarasota ("Gulf Gate Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
t h e Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
0f the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, a newly organized Florida corporation, proposes to 
ac<UUre control of the above five banks; three located in Lee County, two 
located in Sarasota County, in Florida. Consummation of the proposal 
w°uld g i v e Applicant control of $198 million in deposits which represents 
1 , 2 Per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the State of Florida. 
t 
1/ 
* *ould become the 19th largest banking organization in the State. 
^^TTblnking data~ar^ as of June 30, 1972. 

8o o 
- 2 -
Management of Fort Myers Bank ($116.6 million in deposits) 
Was instrumental in the formation of Beach Bank ($10.3 million in 
dePosits) and East Bank ($5.4 million in deposits). Since the forma-
tions the three banks, which control 36 per cent of the Fort Myers market 
dePosits, have been closely affiliated through common stock ownership of 
0ver 51 per cent and interlocking directorships. Additionally, the banks 
offer many services to customers on a cooperative basis and share many 
Eternal services. Due to this affiliation, consummation of the proposal 
w°nld eliminate no significant existing competition in the Fort Myers 
Market. Similarly, Sarasota Bank ($42.4 million in deposits) and Gulf Gate 
Bsnk ($22.9 million in deposits) are affiliated by common management and 
c°mmon stock ownership of over 70 per cent. Consummation of the proposal 
w°uld have no adverse effects on existing competition in the Sarasota banking 
^rket 
where the subject banks hold 17 per cent of market deposits. 
With respect to potential competition, due to the nature and 
Strength of the affiliations, there is little likelihood that, absent 
tllis Proposal, competition would develop within either of the presently 
listing 
groups. Further, each of these groups is relatively small, and 
slnce the banking markets involved are separated by over 70 miles, it 
j °es not appear likely that either group would enter the market served 
b 
U 
y the other. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposal 
V°uid have no significant adverse effects on potential competition. 
i^^is~~contrasts with the Board's findings with respect to the applications 
at
 Fl*st at Orlando Corporation to acquire the Sarasota group where First 
t
 Orlando was a likely entrant into the market with the size and ability 
enter de novo or through the acquisition of a smaller bank. Further, 
Board approval for First at Orlando to acquire the smaller bank in 
ba\8r°uP> the owners of the group were unwilling to sell only one of the 
nks* 
(1971 Federal Reserve Bulletin 1013.) 

823 
-3-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
Proposed subsidiaries are satisfactory, taking into account Applicant's 
commitment to add capital to three of the banks, and future prospects 
are favorable. These considerations are consistent with approval. Although 
consummation of the transaction will have no immediate effect on the banking 
needs of the residents in Applicant's banking markets, considerations 
r elating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
Regarded as consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
transaction would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tbe reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
°rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
l u t i n g f o r t h i s action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, 
nd Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Robertson. 

824 
Item No. 9 
3/6/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTHWEST IOWA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Northwest Iowa Bancorporation, Le Mars, Iowa, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1) of formation of a bank holding company 
through the acquisition of 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f The Lakes National Bank, Arnolds Park, Iowa ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
in accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
a n d views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
and all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Since its organization in 1967, Applicant has been selling 
Crcdit life insurance to customers of Bank's predecessor organization.""^ 
Bank was granted a national bank charter on September 29, 1971, and 
°Pened for business on January 6, 1972. Upon approval of this appli-
Cation, Applicant proposes to transfer its credit life insurance agency 
derations to Bank. Bank is located in a community of less than 5,000 
PG°ple, and would conduct such insurance agency activities pursuant to 
its authority as a national bank (12 U.S.C. 92 and 12 CFR 7.7100). 
Prior to the time Bank was granted a national bank charter, it was 
Perated as a branch of First National Bank, Sibley, Iowa. 

8<ytr-
-2-
Sank has deposits of $1.9 million, representing less than one 
Percentage point of total deposits in commercial banks in Iowa, and is 
2/ 
^ e smallest of four banks located in the Arnolds Park area.~ 
Since 
the sole shareholder of Applicant owns 96 per cent of Bank's shares, the 
Proposed transaction involves only a change from individual to corporate 
0Wnership. Accordingly, consummation of the proposed transaction would 
have no adverse effect on existing or potential competition. 
Although Applicant would incur a significant amount of debt in 
^elation to its net worth in acquiring Bank, Applicant has committed itself 
to increase its equity capital and has arranged to amortize its remaining 
debt over a period of 12 years. In addition to these facts, since Bank's 
inc 
ome will be increased by the insurance agency operations being trans-
i t e d to it by Applicant, it appears that Applicant will be able to 
Service l t g d e b t w i t h o u t adversely affecting the condition of Bank. Accord-
the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
PPlicant and Bank are consistent with approval of this application. 
^iderations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to k^ 
e served are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
^Oay.J t 
s judgment that the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the r 
reasons set forth in the Board's Statement of this date. The 
faction shall not be consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar 
data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
any formations and acquisitions through December 31, 1972. 

^gi) 
-3-
day following the effective date of this Order or (b) later than 
three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
V 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, 
an<* Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Robertson. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ELLIS BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 10 
3/6/73 
Ellis Banking Corporation, Bradenton, Florida, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 51 per cent or more of the voting shares of First Park Bank, 
Bellas Park, Florida ("Bank") . 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
B 
s 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
ttle Board has considered the application and all comments received in light 
0f ^ e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 16 banks with aggregate deposits of $447.3 
^Uion, representing 2.6 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in 
th 
e State, and is the eighth largest banking organization in Florida. 
(B*nk deposit data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding formations 
acquisitions approved through December 31, 1972.) 
Bank ($22.6 million in deposits) is the ninth smallest of 26 
banks i n t h e south Pinellas County banking market and controls 2.3 per cent 
t-°tal commercial bank deposits in the area. Applicant has one subsidiary 
bank ($33t7 Iniiiion in deposits) In the market accounting for 3.4 per cent 
of m 
market deposits; upon consummation, Applicant will become the fifth 
ar8est banking organization in the market, holding 5.7 per cent of its 
ep°sits. Eleven multi-bank holding companies (with sixteen banks) are 

_ 828 
-2-
rePresented in the market with the first, second and third largest con-
trolling 
18.3, 15.8, and 9.6 per cent of total deposits, respectively, 
remaining banks not affiliated with bank holding companies (exclusive 
of Bank) hold 21.8 per cent of the market's deposits. The record reveals 
that the service areas of Bank and Applicant's subsidiary bank slightly 
0verlap; however, in view of the presence of intervening banks and an 
interstate highway being constructed that is expected to act as a barrier 
^etween these service areas, consummation of the proposed transaction would 
n°t appear to eliminate any significant existing or potential competition. 
^urther, it appears that approval of this transaction will not have an 
adverse effect on any competing bank nor significantly increase the concen-
tration of banking resources in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and its 
ubsidiary banks are generally satisfactory, the financial condition of 
Bank i 
J-s excellent and its management satisfactory. Future prospects for 
a n a 
PPear favorable. While the banking needs of the area are presently 
b served by Bank and its competitors, considerations related to the 
nVenience and needs of the community to be served are consistent with 
pProval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
sition would be in the public interest and that the application should 
b e aPproved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
50ns sun 
the 
s summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) before 
thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or (b) 

yzt) 
-3-
later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless such 
Period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve 
®ank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"" effective March 6, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
B U c h
V° t i n 8 f o r t h i s action: Governors Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and 
er- Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Robertson. 

Item No. 10 
3/6/73 
AOOREB3 UrriClAL CURHESPGNi'ENCC 
i u the qua r< n 
March 6, 1973 
B ^ J . s t e r e d 
1 
M'HIUN. r e c e i p t requested 
Ellis Banking Corporation 
First National Bank Building 
^radcnton, Florida 
33505 
Gentleman: 
The Board of Governors of the ledera! Reserve System 
has approved the applications of Ellis Banking Corporation for 
Permission to acquire.. 1) all of the voting shares (less directors' 
lify.i.jig 5hare>3) Df First National Bank of Hudson, Hudson, 
'-•orIda, a proposed nev? bank; 2) all of the voting shares (less 
rectors' qi.ia.lif y;i.ng shares) of First Security Bank, Bradenton, 
'-orIda, a proposer' new bank, and 3) 5.1 per cent or more of the 
Vot:'ng f'-ha !:•?.& of 1'irsl: Park Bank, Pine'liar Park. FJoraY.a, 
Enclosed are the Board's Orders and press releases on 
->c. actions. Also enclosed is a copy of a Dissenting Statement 
W"* 1'M 
" 
1 
'" n rosprct to the application of First National Bank of Hudson. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Orders 
^
n
o 
Lo the time within which the actions herein approved are 
J- he consummated, advise of iJie fact of consummation should be 
• S3veri i.n v.rj;itto the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
, 
'finally, witl» regard to the acquisition of First Park 
^ 
please be advised that in taking this action, the Board 
'Jf'-ond,i.tjoned its approval upon the immediate elimination of 
^ n.ua inta-clocking director relationships presently existing 
l " 
J ' 
P-^i k Ban];, and sever;.!.! banks with.in its relevant 
racket. The Board acknowledges Applicant.1 s stated 
to iuc.:ed iate.lv tcr.-ainafce those relationships. Advise 
of j- {.. .. 
- 
' 
r.' , - 
t: of t^rr. ination should be given in writing to the 
''->*<•! 1 ]>es-*rva nank of Atlanta. 
V < • v y t r u 3 y y o u r s , 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary or the Board 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N Q R 5 
CoV/,;. 
O F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5YSTE 
• j*Tv;>V-:ti^? ; ; 
WASHINGTON, 
a. c. ?os5s 
'•U;-1 n<n3l 

* ' AX • . > ^ • 
'-^u.Vv.s^;. * 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 10 
3/6/73 
Alfred Hayes 
President 
federal Reserve Bank of New York 
New York, New York 10045 
Dear Mr. Hayes: 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL C C. H R F 5 FH1 N O E N H E 
ID THE fci O A R O 
March 7, 1973 
This is to inform you that Chester B. Feldberg, Assistant 
Counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, has been temporarily 
Appointed an Assistant Secretary of the Board, effective immediately, 
^ia appointment will continue for the remainder of his service at 
the Board> which is currently expected to terminate about the end 
April 1973. An announcement of Mr. Feldberg5s appointment wil'J 
c sent to all Federal Reserve Banks shortly. 
The appointment of Mr. Feldberg as Assistant Secretary had 
keen discussed in advance with Richard A. Debs, Senior Vice President 
the New York Bank. It is understood that the Federal Reserve 
pjank of New York will continue to pay Mr. Feldberg's salary for the 
cWation of his stay at the Board. 
Mr 
The Board appreciates the willingness of your Bank to make 
Feldberg's services available. 
Sincerely yours 
/Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
V > 
y •S 

Item No. 13 
' 3/6/73 
For immediate release 
March 6, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System announced today a change in membership of the 
Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel. Effective 
immediately, Governor Jeffrey 11. Bucher has been designated 
a Vanel member replacing Governor George W. Mitchell. 
The Federal Reserve System Labor Relations Panel, 
formed in January 1970 pursuant to Section J of the Board's 
Statement of ioHcy on Unionisation apu Collective Bargaining 
for the Federal Reserve Banks, is composed of one public 
member, Mr. Vi-1111 an 12. Simkin, who is the Panel Chairman, and 
two members of the Board of Governors, Governor J. Dewey Daano 
and Governor Bucher. 

D • A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 14 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
3/6/73 
ubject; Proposed Committee on Federal 
Reserve Board officer salaries 
Dflfn 
March 5, 1973 
FOR CONSENT CALENDAR 
Action Requested: Approval of the Board is requested for the 
establishment by Chairman Burns of the Board Committee on Federal 
Reserve Board officer salaries as described in the attached 
memorandum. 
Recommendation: 
Board approval. 
Discussion: Board Members have already considered the establishment 
-and composition of the Committee, as well as its functions, in con-
nection with its consideration on March 1, 1973, of the Chairman's 
memorandum to the Board dated February 28, 1973, on the subject of 
Proposed Changes in Board Member Assignments. Since the approval 
of general officers' salaries has not heretoforth been delegated, 
the formality of Board action is requested in order to complete the 
official records. 
Attachment 

• 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
' 
S j ^ t 
OFTHt 
• 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
ce Correspondence 
Date. 
Vice Chairmaif Robertson 
Subject: Committee on Federal Reserve 
Governor Sheehan 
Arthur Ft Burns - ' 
Board 
A committee on Federal Reserve Board officer salaries is 
herewith established, comprised of Vice Chairman Robertson (Chairman), 
Governor Brimmer and Governor Sheehan (members), to oversee and 
approve Board officers1 salaries, other than the senior staff 
inanagernent. Salaries of those officers in the senior management 
group, namely, Division.Directors, officers in Board Members' Officcs, 
\ 
and Executive Director and Deputy Executive Director, will continue 
"to come to the full Board for action, since these are the officers 
*lth when the Governors axe most closely in touch and upon whom 
"the Board depends most critically for staff performance. 
i 
The committee will have final authority to oversee and 
approve all other Board officers' salaries, taking performance into. 
Account in adjusting such salaries, and maintaining proper balance 
^stween salaries of senior officers, junior officers, and the 
^official staff. To assist your Committee in its determinations, 
should arrange to continue the recent practice of interviewing 
every rcsmbor of the Board annually to ascertain his views as to the 
Ps'rf or ranee of each'Board officer. 
