MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 9, 1973 

4388 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, November 9, 19 73. The Board met in the Special 
Library at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for 
Operations and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research 
and Economic Policy and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Axilrod, Adviser to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Wernick, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Litigation concerning request for disclosure of bank survey data. 
At its meeting on August 28, 1973, the Board denied a request by Consumers 
Union, Inc., Washington, D. C., which represented San Francisco Consumer 
Action, San Francisco, California, for disclosure of individual bank 
data that underlie the Board's G.10 statistical release, Interest Rates 
Charged on Selected Types of Bank Loans. Subsequent to that decision, 
Consumers Union filed suit against the Board under the Freedom of 

4383 
11/9/73 
-2-
Inforination Act requesting full disclosure of information received 
from individual banks participating in the G.10 survey. In response 
to a request by the Department of Justice that the Board provide 
plaintiff with certain limited information, which that agency considered 
to be in the public domain, the Legal Division in a memorandum of 
November 9, 1973, recommended that the Board offer to disclose the names 
of the banks participating in the survey, the most common rate charged 
by these banks for credit card plans, and the range of rates charged 
on loans for the purchase of new automobiles. 
Today's discussion revealed the present intention of the Justice 
Department to decline to defend the Board in this case unless the 
information described above was made available to Consumers Union. 
However, because this information and other data were provided by banks 
voluntarily with the Board's assurance that such information was to 
be used in an aggregate data series with individual bank data remaining 
confidential, several Board members expressed the view that to make 
such a disclosure could seriously jeopardize the Board's voluntary 
statistical reporting system. 
It was agreed that a member of the Board would discuss the 
subject with officials of the Justice Department in order to amplify 
both the reasons for the Board's desire to preserve the confidentiality 
of such data and its need for defense of that position by the Justice 
Department. It was further agreed that the Board would be willing to 
compromise to the extent of making available to plaintiff certain 

4390 
11/9/73 
-3-
interest rate data on credit card plans but that the confidentiality 
of other data should be maintained. 
(Note: Governor Brimmer subsequently 
visited the Department of Justice. It was agreed at that meeting that 
the Justice Department would defend the Board in this suit on the 
understanding that certain interest rate data on credit card plans 
would be made available.) 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 
