MINUTES 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
February 1, 1973 

3llh 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, February 1, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. MeInicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Feldberg of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
New York 
Mrs. Semia and Mrs. Scott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

2/1/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, St. Louis, 
Minneapolis, and Dallas on January 25, 1973, of the rates on advances 
and discounts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
As recommended in a memorandum of January 29, 1973, from 
Mr. Leavitt, the Board unanimously approved processing on an ad hoc 
basis the application of Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association, San Francisco, California, to transfer its traveler check 
operation to a subsidiary of its parent bank holding company. A copy 
of the notice of receipt of the application sent to the Federal Register 
is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Interbay 
Citizens Bank, Tampa, Florida, for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Security 
Bank of Havre, Havre, Montana, for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to continue 
to hold shares of Prestamos Prestos Puerto Rico Inc., after the latter 

2/1/73 
-3-
acquires shares of Mini Finance Company, Puerto Rico. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4» 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Indian Head 
Banks Inc„, Nashua, New Hampshire, to acquire shares of The Lakeport 
National Bank of Laconia, Laconia, New Hampshire, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 5. 
As recommended in a memorandum from the Legal Division dated 
January 29, 1973, the Board unanimously approved letters to counsel for 
the New York and Pacific Coast Stock Exchanges regarding the applica-
bility of section 8 of the Clayton Act and section 32 of the Banking 
Act of 1933 to interlocking relationships between certain kinds of 
organizations. Copies of the letters are attached as Items 6 and 7. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
First Florida Bancorporation, On October 31, 1972, the Board 
voted to deny the application of First Florida Bancorporation, Tampa, 
Florida, to merge with United Bancshares of Florida, Inc., Miami Beach, 
Florida. Before an order to implement that decision was prepared, 
representations were received from United Bancshares of Florida that 
since the application was filed the structure of banking in Dade County 
had changed significantly and that, if the Board were disposed to deny 
the application on competitive grounds, further presentation should be 
allowed with respect to that aspect of the case. The staff, having 

2/1/73 
-4-
considered the additional information submitted, reiterated its recom-
mendation of denial. At the meeting on November 30, 1972, the Board 
agreed to reconsider the case and requested additional analysis. On 
the basis of the documentation subsequently prepared, the staff again 
confirmed its adverse recommendation. 
On January 18, 1973, all members 
being present, the Board voted to deny the application, Governors 
Mitchell, Daane, and Sheehan dissenting. A draft order to implement 
that decision had been distributed. 
At today's meeting Chairman Burns moved that the case be recon-
sidered. The motion having carried, he stated that after extensive 
additional study he would change his vote from denial to approval. He 
did not believe that the combination of the two bank holding companies 
would diminish existing competition; the question was whether potential 
competition would be foreclosed to a significant degree. He had examined 
the effect not only of the present proposal but also of others expected 
to be forthcoming, and had concluded that if they were approved a sizable 
number of bank holding companies and also of individual banks would remain 
in Florida. He could not see that any injury would be done to the 
competitive atmosphere in Florida, or in Dade County in particular. He 
felt that with the growth of individual businesses we must accept the 
significant growth of individual banks or banking organizations in order 
to accommodate the expanding needs of corporate businesses,, On balance, 

2/1/73 
-5-
he believed that good economies, equity, and justice pointed toward 
approval of the present application. 
Other members of the Board having reiterated the votes they 
had cast on January 18, the application was approved, Governors Robertson 
Brimmer, and Bucher dissenting. 
It was understood that documents to 
implement this decision would be drafted for the Board's consideration,, 
Foreign banks. On November 22, 1972, the Board approved recom-
mendations made by Governors Mitchell and Daane in a memorandum of 
November 20, 1972, looking toward a regulatory stance under which 
foreign banking organizations would operate in the U.S. on an equal 
footing with domestic commercial banks, and U.S. banks would operate 
abroad on an equal footing with banks in the host countries. The 
memorandum included suggestions for steps to move toward that objective. 
Pursuant to these suggestions, the staff recommended in a memorandum 
of January 31, 1973, that the Board announce that it is considering 
revisions in its regulatory policies for foreign activities of U.S. 
banks and exploring the appropriateness of the existing regulatory 
framework for U.S. activities of foreign banks. A draft press release 
was attached. The staff also recommended the establishment of a steering 
group for the project of three Board members and three Federal Reserve 
Bank Presidents. 
After a discussion during which a number of changes in the 
draft press statement were agreed upon, the Board unanimously approved 

2/1/73 
-6-
issuance of the statement in the form attached as Item No. 8. Although 
Governor Robertson did not dissent from this action, he expressed the 
view that it would be advisable not to issue a public announcement 
until the studies were completed. The Board also unanimously approved 
nominations by Chairman Burns to comprise a steering group of Governor 
Mitchell as Chairman, Governors Daane and Bucher, and Messrs. Hayes, 
MacLaury, and Morris, Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of New 
York, Minneapolis, and Boston, respectively. Mr. Holland was named 
staff director for the project. 
Working-capital acceptances. At the meeting on January 30, 
1973, the Board discussed the implications and legal status of working-
capital acceptances, also known as finance bills. 
Documentation included 
memoranda of January 12 from the Legal Division and January 26 from the 
Division of Research and Statistics. The Federal Advisory Council had 
requested that the subject be included on the agenda for its meeting 
with the Board on February 2, 1973. 
After further discussion at today's meeting, there was agree-
ment that, in the light of fundamental and philosophic questions as 
well as potential monetary policy significance inherent in the subject, 
which there had not been sufficient opportunity to explore, the Board 
was not prepared to express any position during its forthcoming meeting 
with the Council. 

2/1/73 
-7-
"Grandfather rights" procedures. At the meeting on Septem-
ber 21, 1972, the Board by a 4-3 vote adopted a rule that in part 
provided that when a one-bank holding company applies for permission 
to acquire a second bank, the Board will not (and can not) require 
early termination of nonbanking activities with respect to which the 
company has grandfather privileges under the Bank Holding Company Act, 
unless the acquisition of the second bank would cause or worsen undue 
concentration of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflict 
of interest, or unsound banking practices. The rule adopted repre-
sented the view of one group of the Board's staff; the Legal Division 
differed with that group. 
In a memorandum of January 26, 1973, Governor Robertson proposed 
that the rule be reconsidered. His proposal was directed to the scope 
of the Board's authority. 
In his judgment, acquisition of a second bank 
by a one-bank holding company alters the status of the holding company; 
the expansion of the combination of banking and nonbanking activities 
creates a potential for harm in the light of the Act's purposes and 
goals; grandfather benefits are an exception to the general prohibitions 
of the Act against a bank holding company engaging in impermissible 
activities and should be strictly construed; once a holding company 
becomes a multi-bank holding company, the company's grandfather bene-
fits are no longer guaranteed to continue (for a minimum of 10 years); 
a request for approval to acquire an additional bank enables the Board 

2/1/73 
-8-
to exercise its discretion to impose terms and conditions upon which 
the grandfather benefits may be retained. 
(This rationale was substan-
tially that advanced by the Legal Division when the question was consid-
ered in September 1972.) 
The principal theme of discussion at today's meeting was the 
intent of Congress. Among arguments in favor of the present rule, it 
was suggested that Congress had specifically faced the question whether 
to require divestiture. For a number of years the Board had recommended 
that the statutory definition of bank holding company be extended to 
companies controlling only one bank, but Congress had not seen fit to 
do so until there was a strong trend for large banks to organize holding 
companies. 
In the absence of outstanding examples of abuses arising 
from the combination of control of one bank and nonbanking activities, 
the Congress had been unwilling to require widespread divestiture, 
especially of enterprises businessmen had undertaken in reliance upon 
the decision to exclude one-bank holding companies from the coverage 
of the 1956 Bank Holding Company Act. Therefore the Congress had pro-
vided for divestiture requirement, within a generous time allowance, 
after opportunity for hearing, and with the burden placed upon the 
Board to prove that abuse existed in a particular case. The proponents 
of this side of the question did not believe that Congress had intended 
that an application to acquire a second bank could be used as a vehicle 

347 
2/1/73 
-9-
to require divestiture and thus avoid the hearing and burden of proof 
otherwise contemplated by the statute. 
It was also mentioned that 
statements made on the Senate floor when the Senate was considering 
the conference report supported the present rule, as did the deletion 
in conference of a provision in the House bill under which grandfather 
rights would terminate upon acquisition of a second bank. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that the 
staff would undertake additional analysis for the Board's further 
consideration. 
System membership. The Board had delegated to the Reserve Banks 
authority to waive the requirement of six months' notice of withdrawal 
of State banks from membership in the Federal Reserve System. The Chicago 
Reserve Bank proposed to refer such cases to the Board for action, with 
the thought that waivers would be inconsistent with recent statements 
by the Board regarding membership. 
In a memorandum of January 26, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended that no change 
be made in the present practice, 
Governor Robertson suggested that there might be merit in 
rescinding the delegation of authority in this respect for the time being, 
and there was agreement that the staff would explore that question and 
bring it back for further consideration. 

347 
2/1/73 
-10-
Marine Midland International. 
In a memorandum of January 17, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval, 
with attached conditions, of the application of Marine Midland Interna-
tional Corporation, New York, New York, to continue to hold indirectly 
the stock of International Marine Banking Company Limited, London, 
England, after the latter opens an agency in New York City. 
The application was approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting on 
the ground that he believed the proposal would enable the Edge corpora-
tion, through its subsidiary, to conduct operations in the U.S. that it 
could not otherwise conduct. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then continued with limited staff attendance. 
Governor Daane and Mr. Bryant reported on their recent discus-
sions with foreign central bankers. 
The meeting then adjourned 

351 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BANK AMERICA CORPORATION 
Proposed Entry De Novo in the Issuance and 
Sale of Travelers Cheques 
Item No. 4 
2/1/73 
Bank America Corporation, San Francisco, California, has applied, 
pursuant to 5 4(c)(6) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) 
and 5 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, for permission to engage de 
novo in the activity of the issuance and sale of travelers cheques, and 
through a subsidiary known as BA Cheque Corporation, San Francisco, Californi; 
r to distribute and market such cheques issued by Bank America Corporation. . 
Notice of the application was published on January 5, 1973, in The Recorder, 
a newspaper circulated in San Francisco, California, 
< . 
, 
J, 
The activity of the issuance and sale cf travelers cheques is 
in issue with respect to this application> to which interested persons may 
express their views on whether such activity is so closely related to banking 
or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. 
Interested persons may express their views en the question whether 
consummation of the proposal can "reasonably bs expected to produce benefits 
to the public, such as. greater convenience, increased competition, or gains 
in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse effects, such as undup concen-
f 
trati.cn of resources, decreased or unfair competition, conflicts of interests 
or unsound banking practices." Any request,for a hearing on this Question, 
or on the issue of whether the issuance and sale of travelers cheques is 
closely related co banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper 
incident thereto, should be accompanied by a statement summarizing the 
evidence the person requesting the hearing proposes to submit or to elicit 

at the hearing and a statement of the reasons why this matter should not 
be resolved without a hearing. 
The application nay be inspected at the offices of the Board 
of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Any views or requests for hearing should be submitted in writin 
and received by the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System, Washington, D. C. 20551, not later than March 13, 1973. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, February 14, 
1973. 
* X 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Soard 

B O A R D G F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 2 
2/1/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20S51 
A D D R E S S 
D F T I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
EIC)AR<D 
• • fp»\L Rfc^' 
February 1, 1973 
Bo a td of DI r e c tors 
Interbay Citizens Bank 
Tampa, Florida 
Gentlemen; 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of Interbay Citizens Bank, Tampa, Florida, 
for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta effective if and 
vhen the bank opens for business under appropriate State authoriza-
tion, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
I * Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard tc i:he 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not causa or permit 
any change to be made in the general character of its 
business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of: admission to membership* 
2, The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3, At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $960,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$288.000 3 
J.II connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 

3 o 1 
TO: Board of Directors 
- 2 -
Regulation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject: to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made., the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. 
A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. 
Arrange-
ments uill thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the 
required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 6 months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forvrard to the bank a formal certificate of membership 
in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
co assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

c) t'' ) 
B O A R D DF G • VER N • RS 
.••C¥Gow:-. 
OF THE 
Item No. 3 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2/1/73 
. 
<s 1 I t /,V' C- • 
" 
T O 
' H E 
B O A R D 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D S E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C U R R E 3 P D N D E V C E 
February 1, 1973 
Board o£ Directors 
First Security Bank of Havre 
Havre, Montana 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of First Security Bank of Havre, Havre, 
Montana, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate 
State authorisation, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
set forth: 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the 
safety of its depositors, and except with the 
permission of the Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, such bank shall not cause oi permit 
any change to be made in the general character of its 
business or in the scope of the corporate powers 
exercised by it at the time of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capita] stork of not Jess 
than $250,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$350,000. 
In connection with the foregoing condi cion-n of membership, 
particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference, to Section 203.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

353 
Board of Directors 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, 
will be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve 
Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved, in order that it may 
be determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's 
status as a member of che Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board 
of directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of such resolution, together 
with advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 
3, should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
of the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described herein may be accomplished is 
limited to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies 
to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board i.s advised 
that all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, 
the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of member ship in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. 
The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
to assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal 
Reserve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
bank means for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enc? osure 

351 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N • R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F T H E 
Item No. 4 
2/1/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A O O R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 2, 1973 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of December 21, 1972, 
the Board cf Governors grants consent for your Corporation, 
("FNCOIC"), co continue to hold the shares of Prestamos Prestos 
Puerto Rico Inc., ("PPPR"), after PPPR acquires all the shares 
of Mini Finance Company, ("MFC"), Puerto Rico, at a cost of 
approximately $175,000, provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase 
and holding of shares of MFC by FNCOIC is granted subject to 
the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in MFC if MFC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if MFC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any op-
eration in Puerto Rico or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of MFC as it may require from time to 
time; 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
MFC be reported under Section 211,8(d) of Reg-
ulation K in the same manner as if MFC were a 
corporation organised under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FNCOIC or PPPR shall r.ot carry on their 
books, directly or indirectly, the shares of 
MFC at a net amount in excess of its pro-
portionate share of the book capital accounts 
of MFC, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is 
requested that the Board of. Governors be furnished, through che 
Federal Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of 
Association, Memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of MFC. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
I t e m N o° 5 
2/1/73 
INDIAN HEAD BANKS INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Indian Head Banks Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire at least 53.68 per cent of the voting shares of The Lalceport 
National Bank of Laconia, Laconia (P. 0. Lakeport), New Hampshire ("Bank") 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in New Hampshire, 
controls six banks, with aggregate deposits of $180.1 million, repre-
senting about 15 per cent of the total deposits in commercial banks 
in New H a m p s h i r e M 
Acquisition of Bank ($8.8 million in deposits) 
would increase Applicant's share of Statewide deposits by less than 
1 per cent and would not result in a significant increase in the 
concentration of banking resources in the State. 
Bank is located in the center of New Hampshire and ranks 
as the second largest of five commercial banks in the market with 
1/ All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, except where otherwise 
indicated, and represent bank holding company acquisitions and formations 
approved by the Board through December 31, 1972. 

357 
-2-
approximately 22 per cent of deposits (Bank's market is approximated 
by Belknap County and the town of Moultonboro)D 
Applicant's closest 
banking subsidiary to Bank is over 40 miles away, and there is little 
existing significant competition between any of Applicant's banking 
subsidiaries and Bank. Nor is there likely to be significant future 
competition between any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank 
due to the distances involved and New Hampshire's branching laws. 
Applicant could enter Bank's market by establishing a de novo bank. 
However, this does not seem a reasonable probability in view of the 
fact that the population per banking office in this area is presently 
considerably lower than the Statewide average and the population growth 
for the State has substantially exceeded the growth in this area over 
the last ten years. Moreover, Applicant's acquisition of Bank could 
have procompetitive effects by permitting Bank to compete more 
effectively with the largest bank in the area, x^hich controls almost 
50 per cent of area deposits. Based on the record before it, the 
Board concludes that competitive considerations of this application are 
consistent with approval. 
The financial condition, managerial resources and future 
prospects of Applicant and its subsidiary banks appear satisfactory. 
The financial condition, managerial resources and future prospects of 
Bank also appear favorable in view of the commitment by Applicant to 
provide additional capital and increased management depth for Bank. 
17 Banking" data for this market are as of June 30, 1970. 

-3-
358 
These factors lend support for approval of the application. Factors 
relating to the convenience of the community to be served are consistent 
with approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisition is in the public interest and 
that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!! effective February 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
37 Voting for this action: Chairman Burns find Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Daane, Brimmer, Slieehan and Bucher. 

B O A R D 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
'IK** 
-p 
,, 
U l J J 
.•'oVcoV• • 
DF THE 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2 / 1 / 7 3 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20351 
«
f 
j f t j ' 
*» 
I • R T J
^
"
^ 
• 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
February 1, 1973 
Sullivan and Cromwell 
48 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter dated December 18, 1972 
concerning the applicability of section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 
U.S.C. 19) to interlocking relationships between member banks and a 
new limited purpose trust company, to be named "The Depository Trust 
Company" 
("DTC"), organized under the banking laws of the State of 
New York, which is expected to apply for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System. DTC has been organized by the New York Stock Exchange, 
the American Stock Exchange, the National Association of Securities 
Dealers and banks which are members of the New York Clearing House 
Association to perform the functions presently performed by Central 
Certificate Service, a division of Stock Clearing Association, a 
corporation which is wholly-owned by the New York Stock Exchange. 
Initially, all stock in DTC would be held by the New York 
Stock Exchange; ultimately, some shares may be sold to the Clearing 
House banks (or their respective affiliated bank holding companies) 
and to the American Stock Exchange and the NASD. 
In anticipation of 
this step the NYSE has agreed to designate up to three persons named 
by the Clearing House banks to the board of directors of DTC. 
It is understood that DTC, will qualify as a "clearing 
corporation" as defined in section 8-102 of the Uniform Commercial 
Code, as amended in New York, and will perform the book-entry 
functions contemplated by section 8-320 uf the Code. Specifically, DTC 
will effect transfers of ownership and pledges of securities in its 
possession (or in the possession of banks serving as custodians which 
are nominees of ETC or the custodian banks) by means of entry on its 
books. Other services incidental to the performance of the transfer 
and pledge functions will also be furnished. Proxy materials, 
dividends and interest payments from issuers received by DTC in its 
capacity as the "record owner" of securities in its possession will be 
distributed to the persons entitled thereto according to the books of 
DTC. 
Dollar amounts owed or to be received by participants in respect 

3 SO 
Sullivan and Cromwell 
-2-
to transactions being settled through the system will be computed daily 
and will be paid or received through DTC in coordination with the trans-
fer of ownership of securities giving rise to the monetary settlements. 
DTC will not receivc commercial deposits or savings deposits, make 
commercial, real estate, or personal loans or engage in the corporate 
or individual trust business. 
It is not presently intended that DTC 
will act as a transfer agent, except that consideration may be given 
to acting as a co-transfer agent in the future in cases where very 
rapid transfer of securities is necessary and not possible by ordinary 
means. 
Subsection (6) of section 8 and section 212.2(d)(6) of the 
Board's Regulation I, (12 CFR 212)excepts from the prohibitions of 
section 8 of the Clayton Act interlocking relationships between a member 
bank and a "bank, banking association, savings bank, or trust company 
not engaged in a class or classes of business in which such member bank 
is engaged." 
A footnote to the regulatory exception provides: 
The phrase "class or classes of business" refers to 
the various types of business engaged in by such institu-
tions involving relationships with customers, such as 
(1) receiving commercial deposits, (2) receiving savings 
deposits, (3) carrying checking accounts, (4) making com-
mercial loans, (5) making real estate loans, (6) making^ 
loans on stock or bond collateral, (7) making "personal" 
loans of the character usually made by Morris Plan or 
Industrial banks, (3) engaging in corporate trust business, 
and (9) engaging in individual trust business. 
On the basis of the information submitted, it does not. appear 
to the Board that the unique character of the activities to be engaged 
in by I)TC constitute a "class or classes of business" engaged in by 
member banks with their customers. 
Accordingly, it is the opinion of 
the Board that a director, officer, or employee of a member bank which 
does not itself act as a "clearing corporation" may serve as a^direc-
tor, officer, or employee of DTC without violating section 8 of the 
Clayton Act. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D Or" G O V E R N O R S 
O?cov".*- 
OF THE 
Item No. 7 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2 / 1 / 7 3 
5
^
F
&
T
I
^
M
2 
* 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
ir"'/*>'j 
;'V*\ -\> V , • 
V i u< * 
J 
ff[ m t - ' 
t'J T l if /"'^'/Z'.' 
A D D R E S S . 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
•f^M.RtS^:-' 
' 
* 
February 1, 1973 
Hunger, Tolles, Hills & Rickershauser 
Elevent'n Floor 
606 South Hill Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90014 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter dated December 6. 1972 
concerning the applicability of section 8 of the Clayton Act (15 
U.S.C. 19) and section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.S.C. 78) 
to interlocking relationships between member banks and a new limited 
purpose crust company to be named "Pacific Securities Depository" 
("PSD") and to interlocking relationships between PSD and companies 
"primarily engaged" in the issuance, underwriting and distribution 
of securities. 
PSD has been organized under the banking laws of che State 
of California as a California trust company and it is anticipated 
that it will soon apply for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
PSD has been financed by the Pacific Coast Stock Exchange and repre-
sents a cooperative effort of the banking and brokerage industries. 
It j.s planned that a number of banks will place securities which they 
are holding as custodian or fiduciary into PSD and banks and other 
financial institutions, such as insurance companies, may be allowed 
to acquire an ownership interest in PSD. 
It is proposed that four 
members of the board of directors of PSD will be bankers and four will 
be brokerage industry members. 
It i;s understood that the principal function, of PSD is to 
hold securities that are placed with it and to effect transfers oi: 
ownership and pledges of such securities (or in the possession of 
banks serving as custodians which are nominees of PSD or the custodian 
banks) by m e a n s of entry on its books. PSD will qualify as a "clearing 
corporation" as defined in section 3-102 of the Uniform Commercial 
Code, as amended in California, and such functions are of the type 
contemplated by section 8-320 of the Code, Other services incidental 
to performance of the transfer and pledge functions r'L11 also be 
furnished. PSD will distribute srexy mater ill*, dividends and inter-
est payments tc the brokers, banks, or ot.\er financial institutions 
for whom the securities are held. PSD will not accept commercial or 

3 iivv 
Manger, Tolles, Hills 6c Rickershauser 
-2-
savings deposits, carry checking accounts, make commercial loans, make 
real estate loans, engage in corporate trust business, engage in in-
dividual trust business, or act as transfer agent for securities. 
Subsection (6) of section 8 and section 212.2(d)(6) of the 
Board's Regulation L (12 CFR 212) excepts from the prohibitions of 
section 8 of the Clayton Act interlocking relationships between a 
member bank and a "bank, banking association, savings bank, or trust 
company not engaged in a class or classes of business in which such 
member bank is engaged." 
A footnote to the regulatory exception provides: 
The phrase "class or classes of business" refers to 
the various types of business engaged in by such institu-
tions involving relationships with customers, such as 
(1) receiving commercial deposits, (2) receiving savings 
deposits, (3) carrying checking accounts, (4) making com-
mercial. loans, (5) making real estate loans, (6) making 
Joans on stock or bond collateral, (7) making "personal" 
loans of the character usually made by Morris Plan or 
Industrial banks, (8) engaging in corporate trust, business, 
and (9) engaging in individual trust business. 
On the basis of the information submitted, it does not appear 
to the Board that the unique character of the activities to be engaged 
in by PSD constitute a "class or classes of business" engaged in by 
member banks with their customers. 
Accordingly, it is the opinion oi: 
the Board that a director, officer, or employee of a member bank which 
does not itself act: as a "clearing corporation" may serve as a direc-
tor, officer, or employee of PSD without violating section 8 or the 
Clayton Act. 
In addition, you raise the question as to whether interlocking 
service between officers, directors or employees of companies that are 
"primarily engaged" in the securities business are prohibited by 
section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 from serving on the board of 
directors of PSD, 
It should be noted that section 32 only applies to 
service with a "member bank", unlike section 8 which applies to service 
between a member bank aril a "bank, banking association, savings bank 
or trust company". Without foreclosing the possibility that in a^ 
proper case the Board might consider a member "trust c o ^ ' 1 to be a 
member "bank" within the spirit and purpose of section 32, the Bo3rd 
does not believe, in view of the unique character of the activities to 

Munger, Tolles, Hills & Rickershauser 
be engaged in by PSD and for other reasons described in your letter, 
that such a determination is required in this case. 
Accordingly, 
it: is the opinion of the Board that section 32 does not prohibit 
persons "primarily engaged" in the securities business, as described 
in that statute, from serving on the board of directors of PSD. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1 - 
v 
I K : 
I R V 
I G . 
J D > 
/ A 
!• 
D . 
{ £ 
I J ? 
k 
jJ jr. iv- 
. 
iv k 
^ u 
o f e l 
Item No. 8 
2/1/73 
For immediate release 
February 1, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced 
today that it has been reviewing for some time its regulations applicable 
to 
foreign activities of U.S. banks and the regulatory issues posed by 
IKS. activity of foreign banks. 
The need for a review of international banking regulation 
results from a substantial growth in recent years in the size and scope 
of activities of foreign banks that have entered the United States and 
the dramatic increase in foreign operations of U.S. banks. 
For 
example, in. the period 1965 to 1972, assets of agencies and branches 
of foreign banks located in the United States increased three-fold to 
about $13 billion, and the assets of foreign branches of U.S. banks 
increased about eight-fold to about $75 billion. 
Because of its long-standing regulatory responsibilities over 
U.S. banks operating abroad, the Board has had policies in this field 
of activity under consideration for some tine. The Board is also giving 
increased attention to the U.S. operations of foreign banks, as a result 
of both increased activity in this area and the responsibilities assigned 
to the Board under the 1970 amendments to the Bank Holding Company Act,, 
Board Members George W, Mitchell and J. Dewey Daane recently 
visited several European central banks to discuss the international, 
activities of multi-national banks. 

The current review announced by the Board is focused on 
structural aspects of U.S. activities of foreign banks and foreign 
operations cf U.S. banks; it does not extend to the volume and types 
of international flow;. cf funds through such institutions. 
The Federal Reserve will be carrying forward its review 
in these fields with the assistance of a Steering Committee made up 
of three members of the Board of Governors and three Presidents of 
the Federal Reserve Banks. They are Governor Mitchell, Chairman, 
and Governors Daane and Jeffrey M. Bucher and Presidents Alfred 
Hayes of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Bruce K. MacLaury of 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, and John J. Balles of the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
The review will include consultations with other central 
banks and other officials on matters of common interest. 
There-
after, to the extent required by consideration of effective and 
equitable regulation of international banking, the Board expects to 
consider the possible need for legislation and to propose changes 
in 'Its own governing regulations. Ample time will be afforded for 
public comment on any possible regulatory changes.. 

, A 
B O A R D • F G D V E R N G R S 
OP THE 
Item No. 9 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
2 / 1 / 7 3 
WASHINGTON, 
D, 
C. 
20551 
* 
^noRESS O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P a N O E N C E 
'•f^LRt^V' 
February 2, 1973 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
120 Broadway 
New York, New York 
10017 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to the letter dated April 10, 1972, 
and subsequent correspondence requesting permission to continue 
to hoLd, indirectly through Marine Midland, Incorporated, ("MMINC ), 
the shares of International Marine Banking Company, Ltd., 
("Intermarine"), after Intermarine establishes an agency in New York 
City. 
The Board noted that the proposed agency would be established 
primarily to (1) facilitate Intermarine's equipment leasing activities 
outside the United States by enabling closer contacts with U.S. 
suppliers of equipment to be leased abroad and with U.S. companies 
seeking to lease equipment for use in their foreign operations 
and 
(2) assist in arranging and negotiating equity investments to be made 
by Intermarine and affiliated institutions. 
The Board of Governors grants its consent for your Cor-
poraticn to continue to hold, indirectly through MMINC, the stock of 
Intermarine after Intermarine establishes an agency m New /one City, 
provided: 
(1.) That the agency's activities are confined to those 
enumer at ed abov e; 
(2) That when required by the Board of Governors, your 
Corporation will cause the New York agency of 
ITitermarine (a) to permit examiners selected or _^ 
approved by the Board of Governors to examine saia 
agency, and (b) to furnish the Board of Governors 
with such reports regarding the New York agency 
as the Board may require from time to time. 

367 
Marine Midland International Corporation 
-2-
The foregoing consent is granted on the condition that, 
for purposes of administering the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines, 
Intermarine's New York agency will be treated as a subsidiary of 
Marine Midland Bank-New York. Accordingly, the foreign assets of the 
agency would be consolidated with the foreign assets of Marine Midland 
Bank-New York in reports filed under the Guidelines. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
