MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
September 24, 1973 

3661 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, September 24, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
R
oom at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary-
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, Office 
of Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Wernick, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statis tics 
Mr. Eckert, Associate Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

3 t > 
9/24/73 
-2-
Discount rate. Subject to review and determination by the 
Board of Governors, the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Kansas City had taken action on September 20, 1973, to establish a 
rate of 8 per cent (an increase from 7-1/2 per cent) on loans to 
member banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The directors had also acted to establish correspondingly higher 
subsidiary rates on advances under other sections of the Act. 
The 
Board had voted unanimously on September 14 to disapprove an increase 
l n
 the rate to 8 per cent at four Federal Reserve Banks. 
At today's meeting, the research staff commented on trends 
lr
t monetary aggregates and on money market rates. 
Governor Brimmer indicated that he would have voted in favor 
approving the higher rate if he had been present at the September 14 
m e
e t i n g . 
In his view, the increase would be consistent with the 
G c
onomic outlook and would serve to correct a misreading of the outlook 
monetary policy, which had contributed to sizable declines in 
m
arket rates over the course of recent weeks. Governors Mitchell, 
Sheehan, and Holland said they would favor disapproving the pending 
lr
icrease for reasons similar to those given at the September 14 meeting. 
After further consideration, the Board members agreed to defer 
a
 decision on the action of the Kansas City Bank until more Board members 
W e r
e available to vote on the issue. 

361 
9/24/73 
-3-
A number of staff members then withdrew and the following 
entered the room: 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the appli-
cation of Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, 
to acquire shares of Fidelity National Bank, Halifax County, Virginia, 
a proposed new bank, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Southeast 
banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Southeast 
National Bank of Manatee, Manatee County, Florida, a proposed new bank, 
a n d
 authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
i s
 attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, to retain shares of Tharpe & Brooks 
Incorporated (a mortgage company), also of Atlanta, and authorized 

3664 
9/24/73 
-4-
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
Banc Group, Inc., Creve Coeur, Missouri, to acquire shares of The 
Citizens Bank of Gerald, Gerald, Missouri, and authorized issuance 
°f an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Boston 
Overseas Financial Corporation, Boston, Massachusetts, for permission 
to acquire shares of First National Boston (Hong Kong) Ltd., Hong 
Kong, and for the latter to issue certain debt obligations. 
Attached 
U n
d e r Item No. 5 are copies of the initial letter and a supplemental 
letter sent to the applicant. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Morgan 
G u
aranty International Finance Corporation, New York, New York, for 
Permission to acquire shares of a financial company to be formed in 
Toronto, Canada, and for that company to issue certain debt obligations. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Cleveland 
T r u
s t Company, Cleveland, Ohio, to organize an Edge corporation in 
Cleveland, to be named Cleveland Trust International Corporation. 
Attached as Item No. 7 is a copy of the letter sent to the applicant, 
W3
-th which was transmitted a preliminary permit. 

3GfJ5 
9/24/73 
-5-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bamerical 
International Financial Corporation, San Francisco, California, to 
acquire shares of B. A . Leasing and Capital (Hong Kong) Limited, 
Hong Kong. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
a
s Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Fort Worth National Corporation. 
In a memorandum of June 26, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of 
Research and Statistics recommended approval of the applications of 
^ e Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, to retain 
indirect ownership of minority interests in Riverside State Bank and 
Sank of Fort Worth, both also of Fort Worth. The shares had been 
acquired by The Fort Worth National Bank, the holding company's lead 
bank, in various sole fiduciary capacities. 
Fort Worth National 
held directly 24.9 per cent of the stock of the two smaller banks; 
thus the additional acquisitions, under the provisions of the Bank 
folding Company Act, constituted the holding company as controlling 
t h e
 smaller banks. 
After preliminary consideration of the application on July 26, 
the staff was directed to inquire of Fort Worth National Corpora-
tion what its plans were with respect to these two small banks and 
nree others in the Fort Worth area in which it held less than 25 per 

3666 
9/24/73 
-6-
cent of the stock. In a memorandum dated September 18, 1973, 
Mr. Leavitt discussed Fort Worth National's response and recommended 
that the application to retain the indirect minority interests be 
approved, but that a letter be sent to the Corporation urging that it 
move promptly to implement its plans for acquisitions and divestitures 
with respect to the five banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached 
a s
 item No. 9. The Board also unanimously approved the sending of a 
letter to the applicant in the form attached as Item No. 10. 
First Valley Corporation. 
In a memorandum of August 24, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of 
Research and Statistics recommended approval of the application of 
First Valley Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, to engage in reinsur-
ance of credit life, accident and health insurance through a de novo 
subsidiary to be known as First Valley Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, 
Arizona. 
The Board unanimously approved the application. 
It was under-
stood that an order to implement this decision would be drafted for 
the Board's consideration. 
Possible reinstatement of director. In a memorandum dated 
September 12, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation described 

3GG7 
9/24/73 
-7-
circumstances attending the 1970 conviction of a director and solicitor 
of a member bank on charges of having falsified the bank's books and 
records. The individual in question had not been imprisoned; he had 
Paid a fine; his one-year suspension from the practice of law had 
been completed; and he now was 67 years of age and in poor health. 
The bank had requested that the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the State of New Jersey grant written consents for his reinstate-
ment, but without participation in the day-to-day management of the 
bank. The Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia recommended that the Board, in response 
to the request for its views, interpose no objection to the reinstate-
ment. A draft letter in those terms was attached. 
After discussion, the Board agreed to oppose the reinstatement. 
Pursuant to this action, a letter was sent to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
Additional members of the research divisions then joined the 
meeting, and there ensued presentations relating to domestic nonfinan-
c
ial developments and international financial conditions, and comments 
the status of legislative proposals of interest to the System. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3668 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
9/24/73 
FIDELITY AMERICAN BANKSIIARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., Lynchburg, Virginia, a 
b a
nk holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors 
<iualifying shares) of Fidelity National Bank, Halifax County, Virginia 
( Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d
 none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
tion i n l i g h t 
o f 
t h e f a ctors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 11 banks with aggregate deposits of $540 
m i l
U o n , representing approximately 5 per cent of deposits in commercial 
b
anks in Virginia." 
Upon consummation of this proposal, Applicant intends 
t o r
equest permission from the Comptroller of the Currency to cause its 
l e a d
 bank, Fidelity National Bank, Lynchburg, Virginia, to transfer to 
B a i
* the assets and the liabilities of the lead bank's Halifax branch 
y ^iT~banking data are as of December 31, 1972. Applicant has received 
a
PProval to establish a de novo bank in Williamsburg, Virginia, and has 
Pendi n g an application to acquire another de novo bank in Roanoke County, 
l r
8ini a. 

36G9 
- 2 -
As a wholly-owned subsidiary of Applicant, Bank would be able 
to 
establish branch offices throughout Halifax County under Virginia 
law. The proposed transaction essentially constitutes, therefore, 
a re
°rganization by Applicant whereby its present branch facility would 
become a wholly-owned subsidiary with full branching privileges. 
The main office of Bank is proposed to be located in the Center-
v i
U e a r e a of Halifax County. The relevant market includes the city 
s
outh Boston and the entire county of Halifax. Applicant's banking 
u
ksidiary located closest to the proposed location of Bank is the Clarkes-
v
U l e 
• Virginia, branch of Applicant's lead bank, located in a separate 
a n
king market 25 miles southeast of Bank's proposed location. 
In addition to Applicant's Halifax branch office which is 
nt
ended to be absorbed by Bank, two other banking organizations are 
Bank's proposed market and control approximately 46 and 28 
Per 
c e
n t , respectively, of market deposits. The State's largest banking 
t
S a n i Z a t i o n 
r e c e i v e d approval to acquire the smaller of these two 
°
m
Peting banks. In view of the nature of the subject transaction, which 
substitute Bank for a branch office of one Applicant's subsidiary 
karvkq the transaction would not have any adverse effect on existing com-
t i
tion nor on the concentration of banking resources in any relevant 
a t
ea 
Moreover, the ability of Bank to branch throughout the market should 
n a b
l e A p p i i c a n t , through Bank, to compete more effectively with the 
g e r
 banking organization located in Halifax C o u n t y , and thereby stimulate 
Petition and economic development in that county. 

3670 
•3-
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and 
its subsidiary banks are regarded as satisfactory and prospects for 
th 
G
 group appear favorable. Bank has no operating history; however, 
u
P°n acquisition of the assets and assumption of the liabilities of 
Applicant's Halifax subsidiary branch office, Bank will acquire an 
e s t
abli shed profitable base and experienced managerial personnel with 
'hich to initiate operations and it appears, therefore, that Bank's 
Pr
°spects are favorable. Furthermore, because the Halifax County-South 
B
08t( 
^nfc i 
B
°
S t o n
 area has a population to banking office ratio above the State average, 
3
 ability to branch throughout the area should increase the avail-
kility of funds and banking services in this market. Considerations relating 
to 
i e
 convenience and needs of the area, therefore, add some weight 
t 0 W a r d
 approval of this application. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would 
be 
., 
c
ne public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the r p 
masons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) u ~ 
u
«rore the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this n J 
u r
aer or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) Fidelity 
n a
l Bank, Halifax County, Virginia, shall be opened for business not . 
. -
t h
a n six months after the effective date of this Order. Each of 

3671 
-4-
the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended for good cause by 
Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to 
l e g a t e d authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 24, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Da
 
n
>
 a n d
 Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
a a n e
 and Bucher. 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Item No. 2 
9/24/73 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c
t , has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of 
t h
e Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
the voting shares of Southeast National Bank of Manatee, Manatee 
County, Florida ("Bank"), a proposed new b a n k . ^ 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
Interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
l n
 accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired, and the Board has considered the application 
a n d
 all comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
o f
 the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Florida 
a n d
 the second largest in the Manatee County Banking Market 
(approximated by Manatee County, Florida), controls 23 banks 
wl
-th aggregate deposits of about $1.6 billion, which represents 
approximately 8.3 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
Florida and about 22.1 per cent of all such deposits in the 
Man 
2 / 
atee County banking market.- 
Since Bank is a proposed new 
"jT
 T
he Comptroller of the Currency granted preliminary approval 
^ e charter application in the name of Southside National 
of Manatee County. However, Applicant expects to change 
e
 name to Southeast National Bank of Manatee. 
2 / 
{J
7
 Banking data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect 
Iding company acquisitions and formations approved through 
J u l
y u , 1973. 

3673 
-2-
bank, consummation of the proposed acquisition would neither eliminate 
existing competition nor increase immediately Applicant's share of 
commercial bank deposits either in Florida or in the Manatee County 
market. 
Bank would become the twelfth bank serving the Manatee County 
banking market and the third such bank to commence business during 
calendar year 1973. Both population and total commercial bank deposits 
have grown rapidly in Manatee County in recent years; and continued 
3/ 
commercial and residential development is anticipated."" 
Moreover, 
the population of Bank's proposed service area—an area surrounding 
t h e
 new DeSoto Square Mall in southern Manatee County—has grown more 
r
apidly in recent years than has the population of Manatee County 
a s
 a whole. Bank's proposed service area overlaps that of one of 
Applicant's subsidiaries, Manatee National Bank of Bradenton, located 
a
Pproximately three miles away. However, four competing banks are 
l
°cated within three miles of Bank's proposed site, including two 
w
hich are subsidiaries of the sixth and eighth largest banking 
°
r
ganizations in Florida. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
c
°
n
3ummation of the proposed transaction would not adversely affect 
competition in any relevant area. 
Board's Order of March 6, 1973 (38 Federal Register 6926), 
Pproving the application of Ellis Banking Corporation to acquire 
p
irst Security Bank, Bradenton, Florida. 

3674 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant and its present subsidiary banks are generally satis-
factory; and future prospects for Bank are considered favorable. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t o
 be served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed acquisition is in the public interest and that 
tl
*e application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
f
°r the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
consummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
e f
fective date of this Order or (b) later than three months after 
that date, and (c) Southeast National Bank of Manatee, Manatee County, 
Florida, shall be opened for business not later than six months after 
th 
e
 effective date of this Order. Each of the periods described 
in (b) 
and (c) may be extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
t h e
 Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective September 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
j*
h
eehan, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
a a
n e and Bucher. 

' 
•o> 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 3 
9/24/73 
FIRST NATIONAL HOLDING CORP. 
Order Approving Retention of Tharpe & Brooks Incorporated 
First National Holding Corp., Atlanta, Georgia, a bank holding 
Corr
*pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r
 the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f
 the Board's Regulation Y, to retain all of the voting shares of Tharpe 
& Br
°oks Incorporated, Atlanta, Georgia ("Company"), a company that engages 
i n
 the activities of making or acquiring real estate loans for its own 
a c c
<Hmt or for the account of others; servicing real estate loans and 
as insurance agent or broker selling credit life, accident and 
e a
lth insurance related to extensions of credit serviced by Company. 
S^pl. 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
t o
 tanking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3), and (9). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r
sons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
h a s
 been duly published (38 Federal Register 13581). The time for filing 
0ln
^ents and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank, The First National Bank of Atlanta, 
At In 
U 
t a
> Georgia ("Bank") with deposits of $1,030 million, 
representing 
>ut 
^Ollf n n 
10 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks In Georgia. 
Bank 
"
a t e a
 primarily in the Atlanta SMSA and, In addition to its other 
k^nki 
services, provides construction loans and permanent financing 
^ ^ ^ a n k i n g data are as of December 31, 1972. 

3676 
- 2 -
S e
rvices on residential and income properties. Applicant's nonbanking 
8 u
bsidiaries. in addition to Company, are engaged in providing financial 
3 e
rvices including consumer financing, second mortgage loans, advising 
a
 real estate investment trust, computer services and factoring services. 
Company (assets approximately $66 million, as of December, 1972) 
^intains its main office in Atlanta Georgia and operates nine other branch 
°^ices in Georgia and has received approval to operate an office in 
r
lando, Florida. For the year 1972, Company ranked fourth among mort-
8 a g e c
°ropanies (over 51) operating in the Atlanta market in terms of value 
f
 Mortgage recordings. Company's mortgage servicing portfolio as of 
U l l e
> 1972 totaled $372 million and was the 56th largest among mortgage 
C o m
Panies i n the country. 
Company was acquired by Applicant in 1970. Although at the time 
of 
Cc
lui8ition both Bank and Company were engaged in construction lending 
n
e-to-four unit residential financing, no significant competition 
i s
ted between Bank and Company in any lines of activity. For the year 
1969 ti 
, 
» Bank's construction loan activities represented approximately 23 
Per c 
llc
 of the market total and, for the same period, Company's 
u
ction loan activities represented an insignificant amount (less 
than i 
Per cent) of the market total. Bank's mortgage lending activities 
c
o-four unit residences in 1969 constituted .3 per cent of the market 
e
 Company's mortgage lending activities represented approximately 
3
 Per o 
y 
cent of mortgages recorded in the Atlanta SMSA for the year 1969. 
F ^ T r r - — -
°8eth
 
y e a r 
1 9 7 2
»
 
t h e 
m o r
t g a g e lending activities of Bank and Company 
^ o r d ^
 
r e
P
r e s e n t e d
 approximately 1.4 per cent of the total of mortgages 
a e d
 in the Atlanta SMSA. 

3677 
- 2 -
The Atlanta area experienced rapid growth in mortgage lending 
ac
tivities during the 1968-1972 period and continues to be characterized 
b
V the presence of many lenders and a large lending volume. In 1969 more 
t h a
n H o financial institutions recorded $636.8 million of mortgage loans 
i n
 the area. For the year 1972, the volume of total mortgage loans recorded 
W a
s more than double the 1969 total. 
In view of the rapid growth of housing and mortgage loan demand 
i n
 the Atlanta area, it appears likely, absent its acquisition of Company, 
t h a
t A p p i i c a n t would have expanded its mortgage lending activities 
either de novo or through acquisition of a firm smaller than Company. 
However, the availability of such alternatives is mitigated by the fact 
t l l a t
 A p p H c a n t » g acquisition of Company did not give Applicant a dominant 
P o s
ition in the relevant mortgage market, nor a market share so great 
a s
 to preclude the development of competition through the entry of other 
*°
rt
gage lenders into the area. In 1969, the country's fourth, eighth, ninth, 
twelfth 
and fifteenth largest mortgage companies had offices in the 
A t
lanta SMSA, and by 1972 six more of the nation's top 20 mortgage companies 
°Poned offices in the area. 
The demand for mortgage lending services and the continued 
P r e
sence of a large number of financial organizations engaged in mort-
i s lending indicate that acquisition of Company by Applicant did not 
^
a V e
 significant anticompetitive effects. Moreover, public benefits 
V
°
UI
<1 appear to result from Applicant's retention of Company since 
^Plicant's continued support should enable Company to continue to expand 

3678 
-2-
ifc
s mortgage banking services in the Atlanta area and into new markets. 
These public benefits outweigh any possible adverse effects of acquisi-
tion and retention of Company by Applicant. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
i n
 the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
M e r e s t factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
i s
 favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. 
This 
d e t
ermination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
o f
 Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
°
r
 termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
S u b
sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
V i s i o n s and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
*
3
3ued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective September 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SWAL] 
S j ^ n g for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
D a
 
a n
> and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
n e a
nd Bucher. 

3679 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
9/24/73 
FIRST BANC GROUP, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Banc Group, Inc., Creve Coeur, Missouri, has applied for 
t h e B
°ard's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t
 (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Citizens Bank of Gerald, Gerald, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s o n s
 to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^
 3
(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
anc
* the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
l
*ght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
The State Bank of Bay, Bay, Missouri ("Protestant"), objected 
t o
 the proposal. Protestant states that Applicant's acquisition of Bank, 
to
8ether with Applicant's alleged control of the State Bank of Hermann, 
H e r
mann, Missouri ("Hermann Bank"), would substantially restrict competi-
>ti 
B
«tik 
tl
°
n an
<* would have an adverse effect on Protestant. Bank and Hermann 
compete in separate banking markets and are located approximately 
3 0
 "liles apart. In addition, there are a number of banks that compete 
the intervening area. In view of these facts, the Board finds that 
Pplicant's acquisition of Bank would not substantially lessen competi-
t t o 
n
 in the areas served by either Bank or Hermann Bank. Further, since 
r
°testant is located approximately 18 miles from Hermann Bank and 20 
3
 from Bank, it does not appear that consummation of this proposal 
°
Uld
 Aversely affect Protestant. 

3680 
- 2 -
1/ 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of $43.6 million, 
^presenting less than 1 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
in Missouri. Applicant's acquisition of Bank (deposits of $6.5 million) 
w
°uld not result in any significant increase in the concentration of 
banking resources in the State. 
Bank is the seventh largest of eleven banks competing in its 
2/ 
market area, controlling 5.5 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
banks in that market. Since Applicant's subsidiary bank is located 
a
PProximately 65 miles from Bank, no significant existing competition 
v
°uld be eliminated upon consummation of this proposal. Due to the 
distance separating Bank from Applicant's subsidiary bank and Missouri's 
restu ct: i v e branching laws, it is unlikely that any significant competi-
tion between the two institutions would develop in the future. The Board 
f
inds that consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effect 
On 
listing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant. its subsidiary bank, and Bank are generally satisfactory and 
d i s t e n t with approval of the application. Although there is no evidence 
the record to indicate that the banking needs of the area are currently 
n
°t being met by existing financial institutions, Applicant proposes to • 
o f
£er trust services to Bank's customers on a referral basis. Considera-
t
i°ns relating to the convenience and needs of the community to be served 
l ^ ^ n k i n g data are as of December 31, 1972, adjusted to reflect holding 
m
Pany formations and acquisitions through May 31, 1973. 
Bank's market area is approximated by the western two-thirds of 
a n k
U n and the southern half of Gasconade Counties. 

... 3681 
-2-
a r
e consistent with approval of the application, It id the Board's judg-
m e i l
t that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 
Through subsidiary companies formed or acquired prior to 
m e m b e r 31. 1970, Applicant is also engaged in the nonbanking activi-
of owning land and providing data processing services. In making 
l t s
 determination herein, the Board has relied upon a finding that the 
combination of an additional subsidiary bank with Applicant's existing 
n
°ubanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an adverse effect upon the 
P U b l l c
 interest at the present time. However, Applicant's banking and 
n
°nbanking activities remain subject to Board review and the Board 
t e t
ains the authority to require Applicant to modify or terminate its 
n
°nbanking activities or holdings if the Board at any time determines 
that t-v, 
combination of Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities 
likely to have adverse effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for •.'L 
ue reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c
°
n
sumtnated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
A c t i v e date of this Order or (b) later than three months after the 

; 3682 
-4* 
e f
fective date of this Order, unless such period is extended for 
8°°d cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. 
L
°uts pursuant to delegated authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective September 24, 
1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
S h e e k
w u i n 8 
f o r 
t h i s
 action: 
Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Daa„
 a n 
a n d
 Holland. Absont and not voting: 
Chairman Burns and Governors 
a a n e
 and Bucher. 

3683 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N • R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 5 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
9 / 2 4 / 7 3 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
U O A R D 
September 25, 1973 
Boston Overseas Financial 
Corporation 
100 Federal Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of August 6, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") 
to purchase and hold, the shares of First National Boston (Hong 
Ltd. ("FNB-IIK"), Hong Kong, at a cost of approximately 
^$10,000,000 (about $2,050,000), provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
In this connection, 
a
?proval is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares 
FNB-HK in excess of 10 per cent of your Corporation's capital 
a
nd surplus. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
o f
 shares of FNB-11K by BOFC is granted subject to the following 
conditions: 
(1) That BOFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FNB-HK if FNB-HK at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if FNB-HK establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or under-
takes any operation in Hong Kong or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to BOFC; 
• Ml. RES^X 

... 3 6 8 4 
Boston Overseas Financial 
Corporation 
-2-
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
BOFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of FNB-HK as it may re-
quire from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
FNB-HK be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if FNB-HK were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to Sections 211.9(a), (b), and (c) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for FNB-HK to engage in the 
business of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's consent to such activities is conditioned upon 
your Corporation's obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the 
continued holding of shares of FNB-HK should FNB-HK acquire stock of 
individual issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing^ 
25 per ccnt or more of the voting shares of any company, except in 
the case of underwriting operations covered by firm commitments from 
sub-underwriters or other purchasers. With respect to trading in 
securities in which Corporations are prohibited from investing by 
the provisions of the eighth paragraph of Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further conditioned on the fact 
that FNB-HK will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, 
maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
b
e reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report 
requested by the Board. 
You have requested consent for FNB-HK to engage in the 
business of providing consulting services outside the United States. 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the condition that such 
services relating to the U. S. market will be confined to the initial 
entry of foreign companies into that market. 

Boston Overseas Financial 
Corporation 
-3-
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FNB-HK. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will, be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The First National Bank of Boston and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

II® 
B O A R D OF 
G D V E R N D R 5 
D F 
T H E 
E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V i ' A S H l N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
AODHtiis orriciAL cnuncst'ONDtNcr. 
T O 
T H E 
U D A I I U 
October 2.6, 1973 
Boston Overseas Financial Corporation 
500 Federal Street 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02110 
Gentlemen: 
It has been noted that in the Board's letter of 
September 25, 1973, granting consent for your Corporation ("BOFC") 
to purchase and hold the shares of First National Boston (Hong 
i 
Kong) Ltd, ("FNB-HK"), three paragraphs were inadvertently omitted, 
'•The purpose of this letter is to amend the September 25 letter by 
adding the following language thereto: 
"BOFC also requested that FNB-IIK be permitted to 
acquire stocks in connection with merger and acquisition 
operations. The Board understands that such acquisition, 
which will be of short duration, will in essence be for 
the account of other parties and not of FNB-HK and, 
furthermore, that the operations will not be at .the risk 
of FNB-HK, even though its resources may be utilized, 
since such utilization will create an at least equal 
obligation to FNB-11K on the part of the real party at 
interest. 
"The Board lias concluded that acquisitions of stocks 
v 
coming within the understandings in. the immediately preceding 
paragraph are essentially fiduciary in character', and would 
be permissible for FNB-HK without regard to the limitations 
and requirements set forth in Section 211.8(a) and (b) of 
Regulation K. However, in view of the unusual character of 
these operations and because of their purported rarity in 
regard to FNB-HK
1
s general business, the Board will expect 
full details in regard to them in any reports called for 
under conditions (2) or (3) of this letter. 
"The Board also grants consent for FNB-HK to issue up 
to the equivalent of $20,500,000 of obligations with 
maturities in excess of one year." 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Qnrrotnrv of the Board 

B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
"pOtGO^ 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• r THE 
Item No. 6 
9/24/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
September 25, 1973 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
23 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10015 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 12, 1973, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("MGIFC") to purchase 
a n
d hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of a Canadian 
company ("CC") to be located in Toronto, Canada, at a cost of approxi-
mately $5,000,000 provided at least $2,000,000 is invested within one 
Veer from the date of this letter. In this connection, approval is 
a]
-so granted for the purchase and holding of shares of CC by your 
Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set forth in the 
Provisions of Section 2.5(a) (12 U.S.C. 615(c)) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
o f
 shares of CC by MGIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That MGIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, any 
shares of stock in CC if CC at any time fails to restrict 
its activities to those permissible to a corporation in 
which a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if CC establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes any 
operation in Canada or elsewhere, in any manner, which at 
the time would not be permissible to MGIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, MGIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of CC as it may require from time to time; and 

3688 
Morgan Guaranty International 
Finance Corporation 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if CC were a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CC in Canada in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of CC. 
You have requested consent for CC to engage in the business 
providing consulting services outside the United States. The Board's 
consent is granted subject to the condition that such services relating 
t o
 the U. S. market will be confincd to the initial entry of foreign compa-
nies into that market. 
The Board also grants consent for MGIFC to continue to 
hold shares of CC after CC issues and has outstanding debt obligations 
w
ith an original maturity in excess of one year in an amount not to 
e
xceed $2,500,000. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3689 
B O A R D • F 
• D V E R N • R 5 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 7 
9/24/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 25, 1973 
The Cleveland Trust Company 
900 Euclid Avenue 
Cleveland, Ohio 
44101 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of Associ-
ation and the Organization Certificate, dated August 6, 1973, of 
Cleveland Trust International Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, and there 
is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corporation to exercise 
such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act 
a
s are incidental and preliminary to its organization. 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, the 
Corporation may not exercise any of the other powers conferred by 
Section 25(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board will 
issue its final permit to commence business, the president, treasurer, 
secretary, together with at least three of the directors, must certify 
(1) that each director is a citizen of the United States; (2) that: a 
majority of the shares of capital stock is held and owned by citizens 
the United States, by corporations the controlling interest in which 
is owned by citizens of the United States, chartered under the laws of 
the United States or of a State of the United States or by firms or 
companies the controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the 
United States; and (3) that of the authorized capital stock specified in 
the Articles of Association at least 2.5 per cent has been paid in in 
\
 C a
s h and that each shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 
per cent of his stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or 
secretary shall certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as 
and when each is paid in, in accordance with law. Request for a final 
Permit should be forwarded to the Board via the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Cleveland. 

3690 
The Cleveland Trust Company 
- 2 -
Your attention is directed to the fact that Cleveland Trust 
International Corporation will have no separate base under the foreign 
credit restraint effort and that any foreign loans and investments will 
need to be made under the ceiling of The Cleveland Trust Company. Accord-
ingly, the foregoing approval is given with the understanding that any 
foreign loans and investment of the Corporation will be made within the 
Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to The Cleveland Trust 
Company and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3691 
B O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D.C. SOB5I 
September 25, 1973 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this clay 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated August 6, 1973, of CLEVELAND TRUST INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION, 
Cleveland, Ohio, duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
CLEVELAND TRUST INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION is authorized to exercise 
such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) as are 
incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the issuance 
b
y the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of a final 
Permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
Provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of 
U l
e Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued 
Pursuant thereto. 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By (Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3 6 9 2 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 8 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
9/24/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R F . 5 P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
September 25, 1973 
Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
s
an Francisco, California 
94104 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 17, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") to 
Purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, 75 per cent of the 
shares of B. A„ Leasing and Capital (Hong Kong) Limited ("BALC"), 
Hong Kong at a cost of approximately $750,000, provided the 
shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
°f shares of BALC by BIFC is granted subject to the following con-
a t i o n s : 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in BALC if BALC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if BALC 
establishes any branch or agency or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Hong Kong 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time 
would not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
BIFC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BALC as it may 
require from time to time; and 
• S U R E S * 

o G 3 3 
Bamerical International 
Financial Corporation 
-2-
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
BALC be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if BALC were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by BALC in Hong Kong 
in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, Memo-
randum of Association, and By-Laws of BALC. 
The Board has noted that as of August 31, 1973, the foreign 
loans and investments of Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
Association and its affiliates exceeded the guideline ceiling applica-
ble under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program. The foregoing con-
sent is granted with the understanding that those foreign loans and 
investments will be reduced promptly so as to eliminate any excess 
over the guideline ceiling and on the condition that the investment 
Will be made only when there is adequate leeway under the guideline 
ceiling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

3694 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
9/24/73 
FORT WORTH NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Retention of Banks 
The Fort Worth National Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U
-S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to retain indirect ownership, with sole discretionary 
v
°ting authority, of 691 voting shares of Bank of Fort Worth, Fort Worth, 
T
exas ("Fort Worth Bank") and 1,010 voting shares of Riverside State Bank, 
p
ort Worth, Texas (''Riverside Bank"), acquired subsequent to December 31, 
l 9 7
0 , without the prior approval of the Board, 
Applicant states that 
t b
e shares in each bank are held by the trust department of The Fort Worth 
National Bank, Fort Worth, Texas, Applicant's lead banking subsidiary 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d
 none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
t i o
n s in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l 8 4
2(c)). 
P ^ o r t Worth National Bank acquired 691 shares of stock in Fort Worth 
ank between April 1, 1971, and October 8, 1971; and 1,010 shares of stock 
Riverside Bank between April 1, 1971, and May 19, 1972. 
Section 3(a) 
the Act provides, in part, that where stock is acquired after December 31, 
with sole discretionary authority to exercise voting rights, prior 
of the Board is required. Where prior approval has not been secured, 
in the case of a trustee who may acquire shares without prior notice, 
^ application is to be filed with the Board within 90 days after the shares 
e
 acquired. If the Board denies the application, the acquiring bank must 
s p o s e of the shares, or of its sole discretionary voting rights within 
years after the Board's denial. Applicant states it was unaware that 
ard approval was required in order to retain the shares which are the 
u b
Ject of this Order. 

3695 
- 2 -
Applicant controls eight b a n k s ^ with aggregate deposits of about 
$330 million, representing 2.7 per cent of the total deposits of com-
mercial banks in the S t a t e d 
Applicant ranks as the fifth largest 
multi-bank holding company and sixth largest banking organization in 
Texas. Additionally, Applicant controls between 24.4 and 24.9 per cent 
the voting shares of two other banks located in the Fort Worth banking 
market, holding aggregate deposits of $74.2 million. Applicant also owns 
5
 Per cent of the shares of First National Bank, Paducah, Texas ($6.8 million 
deposits). In addition to the shares which are the subject of this 
application, Applicant currently owns or controls 28.858 per cent of 
p
°rt Worth Bank and 28.639 per cent of Riverside Bank. 
Fort Worth National Bank ($532 million in deposits) is the 
largest of 44 banks in the Fort Worth RMA,~^ the relevant banking market, 
controls approximately 26.8 per cent of deposits of commercial banks 
that area. Both Fort Worth Bank and Riverside Bank operate in the 
F
°rt Worth RMA and control 2.2 and 1»9 per cent of market deposits 
r e s
Pectively. In view of the close affiliation of Applicant's lead bank 
w
ith Fort Worth Bank and Riverside Bank, which has existed in various 
f
°rms since 1946 when both banks were organized by individuals associated 
I^SSiIc cf jFoit Worth, Riverside State Bank and Tarrant State Bank, all 
*°cat£d in Fort Worth, are deemed subsidiaries for purposes of the Bank 
riding Company Act by virtue of Applicant's fiduciary holdings in said 
^ B 
and § 2(a)(5)(A) of the Act. 
All Banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
rjmpany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through Aegust 31, 
l 9
?3. 
V RMA refers to Ranally Metro Area which is defined as the central city 
P l
us every community, 8 per cent or more of the total population of which 
15 per cent or more of the labor force of which, commutes to the central 
I)}** based on the Census of Population. No community, 35 per cent or more 
labor force of which is engaged in agriculture, is included in an 

-2-
3696 
with Applicant's lead bank, and the present ownership by Applicant's 
stockholders or Applicant of 53.3 per cent of Fort Worth Bank and 61 
Per cent of Riverside Bank, it appears that there is no present mean-
ingful competition between any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Fort 
Worth Bank and Riverside Bank. It appears unlikely that any significant 
competition would develop between Applicant's lead bank and either Fort 
Worth Bank or Riverside Bank in the future, due to the described relation-
ship and the absence of any evidence indicating a probability that the 
relationship will not continue indefinitely. Irrespective of the 
affiliation of both banks with Applicant, no significant adverse effect 
existing or future competition in the Fort Worth market is likely in 
v
iew of the small market share of both banks. Moreover, the principal 
functions between the banks and Applicant's lead bank differ. The former 
s
erve primarily as a source of individual or retail banking services, 
v
hile the latter serves as a source of corporate or wholesale banking 
services. With respect to Applicant's other banking subsidiaries, the 
Board finds that approval of the applications would not eliminate any 
significant existing or future competition. Furthermore, as the trans- . 
a
ctions involve neither an expansion of Applicant nor an increase in the 
b a
nking resources controlled by it, approval of the transactions would 
n o t
 result in any adverse effects on a competing area bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of Appli-
C a r i
t, its subsidiaries, and both Fort Worth Bank and Riverside Bank are 
W a r d e d as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the applications. 
T l l
e convenience and needs of the area involved would not be affected by 
Cor
*summation of Applicant's proposal. 

Applicant owns directly three principal nonbanking subsidiaries 
acquired between June 30, 1968, and December 31, 1970. One of these, 
Poster Financial Corporation, Fort Worth, Texas, engages in the mortgage 
banking business and is the second largest mortgage firm in Fort Worth 
in terms of its mortgage servicing portfolio,1/ 
Fort Worth Bank and 
Riverside Bank are not significant competitors in the Fort Worth mortgage 
Market. Accordingly, it is the Board's conclusion that approval would 
*ot adversely affect competition in mortgage banking in the Fort Worth 
a
*ea. Foster Financial Corporation and its subsidiary, Westcliff Company, 
a
re engaged in land development, which is not a permitted activity under 
§ 225.4(a) of Regulation Y . 
(See 1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 429). 
Applicant has agreed to divest such activity within a two-year period 
(38 Federal Register 0694). 
Applicant
1
s banking and nonbanking activities remain subject 
t o
 Board review, and the Board retains the authority to require Appli-
C a
nt to modify or terminate its nonbanking activities or holdings if 
t h
e Board at any time determines that the combination of Applicant's 
banking and nonbanking activities is likely to have adverse effects on 
tl
*e public interests. 
Applicant's other principal nonbanking interests include a savings 
a a d
 loan association which it is required to divest under an order of 
jj
h
e United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit; and an insurance 
brokerage company which is also subject to ten year "grandfather" privileges 
a t
 this time. 

5-
3698 
Accordingly on the basis of the record, the applications are 
approved for the reasons summarized above. 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective September 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
& 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
neeh>m, &nd Holland, Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Pernors Daane and Buc'ner. 

Of COi'* •. 
B O A R D D F 
G D V E R N • R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No. 10 
9/24/721 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
September-25, 1973 
Hr. Lewis H. Bond 
Chairman of the Board 
The Fort Worth National 
Corporation 
P.O. Box 2050 
Fort Worth, Texas 76101 
Dear Mr. Bond: 
By letter dated August 8, 1973, you provided information 
about The Fort Worth National Corporation's plans concerning five 
suburban Fort Worth banks in which the Corporation has an interest. 
The banks involved are Bank of Fort Worth, Riverside State Bank, 
Central Bank & Trust Company, North Fort Worth State Bank, and 
Tarrant State Bank. You note that officers and directors of The 
Fort Worth National Bank were primarily responsible for the charter-
ing of Bank of Fort Worth, Riverside State, and Tarrant Bank. 
The letter states that it is your intention to begin nego-
tiations with the Boards of Directors of Bank of Fort Worth, Riverside 
State, and Tarrant Bank in the hope that an agreement can be reached 
so that Fort Worth National Corporation may acquire the remaining 
shares of these three banks. The negotiations are expected to begin 
later this year, and if you are successful in acquiring these banks, 
you would then propose to sell your interest in the North Fort Worth 
Bank and the Central Bank & Trust Company. If you are unable to 
a c
quire one or more of the three banks named, you would then attempt 
v
to acquire either North Fort Worth Bank or Central Bank, or both. 
The Board was informed of your proposal, and hopes that 
U e
gotiations will be started promptly. When applications involving 
one or more of these banks are submitted, the Board will examine the 
m e
r i t s of each application. The Board understands from your letter 
that if you succeed in acquiring three banks, the other two banks will 
he disposed of as soon thereafter as possible. 
I wish to stress that 
e a
c h case will be reviewed as submitted to the Board, and what the 
Board will conclude cannot, of course, yet be determined. The Board 
has, on occasion, approved applications on the condition that the 
holding company dispose of its minority interests in other banks. 
Very truly yours, 
V 
Brenton C. Leav>tt\ 
Program Director 
for Banking Structure 

I 3700 
Item No.i 11 
9/24/73 1 
s 
a r n c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
\ , 
October 2, 1973 
V 
Mr. Thomas K. Dcsch 
Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19101 
Dear Mr. Desch: 
This refers to your letter of July 17, 1973, and 
Mr. Mc Aneny's letter of August 6, 1973, soliciting the Board's 
views with respect to the possible grant of written consents by 
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Banking 
Commissioner of the State of New Jersey to Egg Harbor Bank and 
Trust Company, Egg Harbor City, Atlantic County, New Jersey, 
for Richard S. Misc.hlich to be reinstated as Chairman of the 
Board of Directors and as Solicitor of Egg Harbor Bank pursuant 
to 12 U.S.C. 1829 and similar State legislation. 
On May 19, 1972, the Board by letter opposed the grant 
of such written consent to Egg Harbor Bank primarily in the light 
of the then recent conviction of Mr, Mischlich for a crime under 
Federal law. The requested written consents have thus far not 
been granted and Mr. Mischlich, therefore, has been prohibited by 
12 U.S.C. 1829 from acting in the capacity of director, officer, 
v or employee of Egg Harbor Bank. 
Egg Harbor Bank proposes that, upon the grant of written 
consents, Mr. Mischlich will assume the positions of Chairman of 
the Board of Directors and Solicitor of Bank. Egg Harbor Bank 
ao that Mr. Mischlich will "have no management responsibilities 
and take no part in the day-to-day management of Bank and would not 
be a member of the loan committee or have any lending authority, 
other than his own vote on matters coming to the Board of Directors." 
B D A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 

3701 
Mr. Thomas K. Desch 
-2-
Egg Harbor Bank has a management succession problem. 
Although it is stated that Mr. Mischlich would refrain from 
participating in the management of the affairs of Bank, it is 
difficult to conceive of his not having a significant influence 
over Bank's affairs, including its selection of successor manage-
ment, by virtue of his standing in the eyes of other directors, 
and if he obtains the sought for positions- of Chairman of the 
Board and Solicitor of Bank. On the other hand, to fill a direc-
torship with a person whose direct contribution to a bank will be 
constrained by inability to function in a full capacity is not one 
VThich the Board views favorably. 
The Board is of the view that the continued operation 
and management of Bank would be better served were Mr. Mischlich 
to remain under a prohibition such as that contained in 12 U.S.C. 
1829. Accordingly, the Board opposes the grant of written consents 
to Mr, Mischlich, We would appreciate it if you would forward the 
views expressed herein to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
and the Banking Commissioner of the State of New Jersey. 
a 
Very truly yours, 
^ , 
/ / 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
