MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 25, 1973 

Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, October 25, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Tuttle, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Lawrence, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by the Federal 
Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, Kansas City, and San Francisco 
° n October 18 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on October 23, 
1-973, 0f the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 
W a s .approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate advice 
w°uld be sent to those Banks. 

4139 
10/25/73 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Securities 
Industry Association, New York, New York, regarding problems faced 
by broker/dealers with respect to interest rates they may charge on 
margin loans. In the form in which it was approved, the letter reflected 
a change in a distributed draft that was agreed upon during discussion. 
A copy of the approved form of the letter is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its 
approval, on September 24, 1973, of the application of First Valley 
Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of First Valley 
Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona. A copy is attached as 
Item No. 2. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its approval, 
on October 1, 1973, of the application of First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., 
Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of First Trust Company of Ohio, National 
Association, also of Columbus, a proposed new bank. A copy is attached 
a s Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Citizens 
Bank of Poison, Poison, Montana, for membership in the Federal Reserve 
System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved, for transmittal to the Comptroller of the 
Currency, a report on the competitive factors involved in the proposed 
merger of The First National Bank of Mt. Airy, Mt. Airy, North Carolina, 
into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, North Carolina. The conclu-
sion read as follows: 

4140 
10/25/73 
-3-
Consummation of the proposed merger of The First National 
Bank of Mt. Airy into North Carolina National Bank, Charlotte, 
would eliminate little, if any, competition presently existing 
between the banks, and there appears to be little potential 
for increased competition between the banks in the foreseeable 
future. First National is the largest bank headquartered in 
Surry County, and the proposal would continue the concentration 
of the State's commercial banking resources. Overall, the effect 
of the proposed merger on competition would be adverse. 
(During discussion of the foregoing item, Governor Holland indicated 
that he would prefer to describe the competitive effect as slightly 
adverse, as recommended by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond.) 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Republic Inter-
national Company, Dallas, Texas, to form and acquire shares, directly 
indirectly, of (1) Republic Overseas Corporation, also of Dallas; 
(2) Republic Dallas Limited, London, England; and (3) Republic Interna-
tional Finance (Asia), Ltd., Hong Kong. A copy of the letter sent to 
the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Virginia 
Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to Bank of Spotsylvania, Spotsylvania, Virginia, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
1 3 attached as Item No. 6. (The application had been processed by the 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond but could not be acted upon under 
^legated authority because of the proposed use of a covenant not to 
compete. Discussions between the Board's staff and the applicant had 
Resulted in agreement by the latter that the covenant would be rescinded.) 

10/25/73 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of First & 
Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, to acquire shares of Equi-
table Leasing Corporation, Asheville, North Carolina, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as 
.Item No. 7. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal Division in a 
memorandum dated October 24, 1973, the Board authorized issuance of 
an order for a hearing (required by statute) on the application of 
American Bancorporation, Columbus, Ohio, to acquire shares of The 
American Bank of Central Ohio, Harrisburg, Ohio. A copy of the order 
is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Neighborhood Housing Services. The Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
had requested that the Board participate in a Task Force for Urban 
Reinvestment to stimulate the creation of a Neighborhood Housing Services 
Program in cities throughout the U.S. It was proposed that the Task 
I'orce be comprised of the following officials or their designees: the 
Chairman of the Board of Governors; the Comptroller of the Currency; 
Chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; and the 
Chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board. 
In a memorandum dated October 16, 1973, the Legal Division 
cited circumstances in support of its recommendation that the Board 
determine that the Board and the Federal Reserve Banks do not have 

10/25/73 
-5-
general authority under the Federal Reserve Act to participate in a 
task force of the nature contemplated. A draft letter in those terms 
was attached. 
Discussion at today's meeting reflected a preference by the 
Board to treat the question informally rather than as a legal matter, 
and that cooperation be extended at staff level without official 
membership. It was brought out that cooperation had already been 
extended by three of the Federal Reserve Banks; also, conferences had 
been held at the Board with a staff member of the Federal Home Loan 
Bank Board during developmental work for the project. There was agreement 
with a suggestion that it be ascertained what approach the Comptroller 
°f the Currency and the FDIC intended to take to the proposal, and what 
had been the nature of the cooperation Reserve Banks had given. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, it was agreed that, after 
the suggested inquiries had been made, the Federal Home Loan Bank Board 
would be apprised informally that while the Board was in favor of the 
°bjectives of the proposal and would be glad to continue the kind of 
cooperation that had already been extended, it would prefer not to 
engage in a formal relationship. 
Republic of Texas Corporation. In a memorandum dated August 29, 
^73, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Division of 
^search and Statistics recommended approval of the application of 
RePublic of Texas Corporation, Dallas, Texas, to become a bank holding 

4113 
10/25/73 
-6-
company through acquisition of shares of the successor by merger to 
Republic National Bank of Dallas. Through that acquisition the Corpo-
ration would also gain indirect control of 29.99 per cent of Oak Cliff 
Bank and Trust Company, also of Dallas, and indirect interest in 21 
nonsubsidiary banks (through Howard Corporation, a trusteed affiliate 
of Republic National Bank of Dallas). Pursuant to action on September 6, 
1973, the Board had informed the applicant that, if the transaction 
were consummated, the new corporation would not be regarded as "successor" 
bank holding company to Republic National Bank and therefore not entitled 
to whatever "grandfather" privileges for nonbanking activities that bank 
wight have under the Bank Holding Company Act. 
In a memorandum dated October 9, 19 73, Mr. Leavitt recommended 
that the application be approved. The applicant had agreed to abide 
by the Board's ruling with respect to the successor question, and had 
indicated its intentions with respect to the indirect interests in 
21 banks. He recommended also that a letter be sent to the applicant, 
a draft of which was attached, stating the Board's understanding of the 
aPplicant's commitments, and explaining that although the Bank Holding 
Company Act precluded the Board from granting the applicant's request 
for three years rather than two within which to divest Howard Corporation, 
a request for an extension could be entertained by the Board toward the 
end of the two-year period, in the light of progress being made toward 
divestment. 

4x44 
10/25/73 
-7-
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the application 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 9. The Board also unanimously approved the letter 
to Republic of Texas Corporation. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
CP Financial Corp. In a memorandum dated October 5, 1973, the 
Legal Division discussed the issues involved in the application of CP 
Financial Corp., Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, the parent holding company 
of Central Penn National Bank, to engage de novo, through a subsidiary 
known as CP Credit Corp., in the following activities: "Purchasing 
loans or participations in loans from, and making loans to, an affiliated 
bank; borrowing from an affiliated bank, nonaffiliated financial insti-
tutions and others under lines of credit or through the sale of commercial 
Paper; and maintaining deposits in an affiliated bank and other banks." 
ihe issuance of commercial paper through a subsidiary was the pivotal 
question; at present, bank holding companies could issue commercial 
Paper directly without having to obtain the Board's approval. Related 
issues raised by the application were (1) whether the proposal required 
Board approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
and (2) whether the proposed activities fell within the scope of activities 
that the Board had determined to be so closely related to banking or 
Managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident thereto. The 
^egal Division recommended that the Board determine that the proposal 
could be consummated without Board approval. A draft letter to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in those terms was attached. 

4145 
10/25/73 
-8-
In a memorandum dated October 19, 1973, Mr. Solomon expressed 
agreement with the effect of the Legal Division's recommendation, but 
said that he had reservations regarding the policy implications and 
consequences of basing that result, as the Legal Division suggested, 
on the ground that the proposed operation would not be an "activity" 
within the meaning of section 4 of the Bank Holding Company Act. In 
his view, while that line of reasoning would dispose of the present 
application, it might make it difficult or impossible for the Board to 
apply any kind of restraint to such operations if that should seem 
advisable in the future. As an alternative ground, he suggested a 
finding that the operation fell within the list of activities the Board 
had determined to be closely related to banking or managing or control-
ling banks. He also suggested language changes in the draft letter 
that would reserve decision on the general question and indicate to 
the applicant that there was no objection to the proposed operation. 
During discussion at today's meeting, Governor Brimmer advocated 
obtaining the view of the research staff regarding possible implications 
°f the proposal from the standpoint of monetary policy. 
Mr. Partee commented that, although he and other staff economists 
had examined the proposal only hurriedly, they did not foresee any 
problems. It was common at present for bank holding companies to issue 
commercial paper; the only variant here present was the use of a subsid-
ia^y. If the funds raised by the sale of the paper were channeled to the 

4146 
10/25/73 
-9-
bank by a deposit or the purchase of a loan, those funds would be 
subject to reserve requirements. 
Governor Brimmer said that he would abide by Mr. Partee's 
judgment so far as monetary policy implications were concerned. In 
his view, however, a policy judgment rather than a legal question 
was involved; he preferred the approach recommended by Mr. Solomon. 
Governor Holland observed that as the financial community 
became aware of the Board's position on this question, other bank 
holding companies might resort to the same practice, and it would be 
well to keep track of developments and to leave open an avenue for a 
possible future reversal. He suggested that the draft letter indicate 
that the Board did not believe that approval under section 4(c)(8) of 
the Bank Holding Company Act was required as the Board at present 
construed the Act. Other members of the Board agreed with that suggestion. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the letter to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Philadelphia was approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, 
in the form attached as Item No. 11. 
All members of the staff then withdrew from the meeting except 
Messrs. Feldberg and O'Connell. 
Federal Reserve notes. Mr. O'Connell reported on a telegram 
he had received yesterday from Louis E. Reilly, Vice President and 
General Counsel of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, regarding 
a request received by that Bank from an investigator on the staff of the 

4147 
10/25/73 
-10-
United States Senate Select Committee on Presidential Campaign Activities 
for the following information concerning four $100 Federal Reserve notes 
issued by the Federal Reserve Agent at the San Francisco Reserve Bank: 
(1) the date(s) of issuance to the Reserve Bank and (2) date(s) of 
delivery to commercial banks and the identity of such receiving banks. 
In commenting on the reasons why this request should be granted, and 
thus distinguished from earlier requests for similar information received 
from individual members of Congress, Mr. O'Connell emphasized the "official 
status" of the Committee and its Congressionally directed assignment. He 
then recommended that the Board authorize the San Francisco Bank to make 
the requested information available, but only upon receipt of a subpoena 
issued by the Committee. 
A discussion followed, during which members of the Board commented 
on the desirability of complying with the request of the Select Committee 
In a timely and orderly manner. At the conclusion of the discussion, 
the Board agreed to authorize the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
to make the requested information available to the Select Committee upon 
receipt of a subpoena. It was understood that a written communication 
would be prepared by Mr. O'Connell informing the San Francisco Reserve 
Bank of the Board's action, and that such communication would be reviewed 
by Mr. Coyne, Governor Bucher, and Chairman Burns prior to being put in 
final form. 
In the course of the foregoing discussion, a question was raised 
regarding the uniformity of Reserve Bank practices in respect of the 

4148 
10/25/73 
-li-
re tent ion of records concerning the issuance and circulation of currency 
in denominations of $100 or more. It was understood that the Division 
of Federal Reserve Bank Operations would pursue this matter further with 
a view to developing a uniform practice that would insure that such 
records are retained by all Reserve Banks for an adequate period of time. 
his capacity as the Board member with delegated responsibility for 
Federal Reserve System emergency planning, to John A. Love, Assistant 
to the President for Energy, concerning a potential fuel supply problem 
for the Federal Reserve System. 
Governor Brimmer reported on a letter he had sent today, in 
The meeting then adjourned. 

m 
m 
f i i p f ^ 
B O A R D D P 
G D V E R N D R S 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A 11,19 
It era No. 1 
10/25/73 
A D O R K H S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 26, 1973 
Mr. Leon T. Kendall 
President 
Securities Industry Association 
Broad Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Kendall: 
Your letter of September 18, 1973, calls to the attention of 
Chairman Burns a problem that lias been created for the securities 
industry by the recent increase in the rate of interest brokers must 
Pay for the funds they use. 
Brokers have customarily charged their 
customers one-half of one per cent or more above the 'call' money rate. 
Recently, however, the call rate has equalled or exceeded the ceiling 
set by the usury laws of a number of States. 
You fear that brokers 
^ay be forced to cease offering margin account facilities to their cus-
tomers, and that forced sales might occur from accounts of customers 
v?ho were unable to furnish additional equity with a resulting adverse 
impact on securities prices. 
You also point out that brokers may be 
at a competitive disadvantage in comparison with banks, since the 
Comptroller of the Currency has ruled that national banks may charge 
interest rates up to one per cent above the rediscount rate without 
regard to the usury ceilings fixed by state law. 
It is certainly the case that state usury laws can serve to 
create an impediment to efficiently functioning markets, whether in 
securities or in other areas. 
It would moreover normally be consistent 

Mr. Ixion T. Kendall 
- 2 -
i 
I 
' 
• 
'with the Board's overall objectives if interest rates on margin account-
were to increase at a pace commensurate with interest.rates generally. 
{Periods of monetary restraint usually entail high interest rates which 
tend to curtail the growth of credit, including margin credit. 
Conversely, if brokers send margin calls because they cannot 
profitably carry margin accounts and still comply with State usury laws 
and if customer inability to meet the calls were to result in forced 
sales, such sales could have an adverse impact upon the securities 
markets. 
The Board has consistently opposed usury ceilings and recog-
nizes that these ceilings are causing difficulties in the securities 
industry. The Board questions, however, the feasibility of the regula-
tory remedy you suggest, and believes that remedial action should more 
appropriately be sought through Federal or State legislation. 
I 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

. 4151 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
10/25/73 
FIRST VALLEY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of First Valley Life Insurance Company 
First Valley Corporation, Bethlehem, Pennsylvania, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
shares of First Valley Life Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona ("Company"), 
a de novo company that will engage in the activity of underwriting, 
as reinsurer, credit life and credit accident and health insurance. 
Such activity has been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(10)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has been duly published (38 Federal Register 8694). The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank, First Valley Bank, Lansford, 
Pennsylvania, with total deposits of $320 million. 
(All banking data 
are as of December 31, 1972 and reflect holding company acquisitions 
approved through August 31, 1973.) 
Company will be formed as an Arizona insurance corporation with 
initial capital of $150,000. As Company will be qualified to underwrite 
insurance directly only in Arizona, its initial activities will be limited 

r- 'O 
4 jfcXvjA-' 
-2-
to acting as reinsurer of credit life and credit accident and health 
insurance policies offered in connection with extensions of credit by 
Applicant's banking subsidiary. Such insurance will be directly under-
written by an insurer or insurers qualified to underwrite the insurance in 
Pennsylvania and will thereafter be "assigned or ceded" to Company. 
Credit life and disability insurance is generally made available by banks 
and other lenders and such insurance is designed to assure repayment of 
a loan in the event of death or disability of the borrower. 
In connection with its addition of credit life underwriting 
to the list of permissible activities for bank holding companies, the 
Board stated that: 
To assure that engaging in the underwriting of 
credit life and credit accident and health insurance 
can reasonably be expected to be in the public 
interest, the Board will only approve applica-
tions in which an applicant demonstrates that 
approval will benefit the consumer or result in 
other public benefits. Normally such a showing 
would be made by a projected reduction in rates 
or increase in policy benefits due to bank 
holding company performance of this service. 
Applicant presently makes available credit life and credit 
accident and health insurance at rates substantially below prima facie 
maximum rates permitted under Pennsylvania law and Regulation 28 of the 
Pennsylvania Insurance Commissioner. In addition, the rates at 
which credit life and credit accident and health insurance are 
offered by Applicant's banking subsidiary appear to be below prevailing 

4153 
-2-
rates generally charged by others. While in prior applications 
to engage in this activity, each applicant has stated that it will 
lower its rates, the applications generally did not involve instances 
where the insurance was previously being offered at rates substantially 
below prevailing rates. In this instance, the Board believes that 
approval of the application will assist Applicant in continuing 
to make available credit insurance at rates significantly below 
those generally prevailing and Is on that basis procompetitive 
and in the public interest. Accordingly, the Board concludes that 
such benefits outweigh any possible adverse effects of approval 
of this application. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
In the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
determination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 

. 4154 
-2-
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective October 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
k/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Brimmer, 
Sheehan and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 
Governors Daane and Bucher. 

. 4155 
Item No. 3 
10/25/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST BANC GROUP OF OHIO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Banc Group of Ohio, Inc., Columbus, Ohio, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' quali-
fying shares of First Trust Company of Ohio, National Association, 
Columbus, Ohio, a proposed new bank ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(C)). 
Applicant, the seventh largest bank holding company in Ohio, 
controls thirteen banks with aggregate deposits of $1.0 billion, repre-
8etiting approximately 4 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
y 
l n the State. 
Bank is being organized to consolidate the trust business 
pte9ently conducted by six of Applicant's subsidiary banks. Bank pro-
v e s to offer trust services in Franklin County, in the six counties 
thereto, 
and in the fourteen Ohio counties in which 
t 1 1 b a n k i n 8 d a t a a r e a s o f December 31, 1972. 
Uni T h e s e counties are Delaware, Licking, Fairfield, Pickaway, Madison and 
on. 

4156 
-2-
Applicant has subsidiary banking offices*""' Bank, while operating pursuant 
to a national bank charter, proposes to limit its services to those offered 
h 
°y a commercial bank trust department."" 
Since Bank is being organized to consolidate the trust services 
Presently provided by six of Applicant's subsidiary banks and to offer 
trust services in the areas where seven of Applicant's subsidiary banks 
Presently operate without trust powers, it does not appear that any signif-
icant existing or potential competition would be eliminated upon consumma-
tion of this proposal. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its existing 
Sub8idiary banks, and Bank are satisfactory and consistent with approval 
o f this application. Applicant's existing subsidiary banks are operating 
without trust powers in seven Ohio counties. In only one of those seven 
c°unties is there more than one other bank which directly offers trust 
8 G m c e s . 
The provision of trust services by Bank in those counties will 
aJ j 
another convenient alternative for trust services. Considerations 
telating to convenience and needs of the communities to be served are 
insistent with and lend some weight toward approval of the application. 
T h G 8 e c o u n t i e s a r e Franklin, Richland, Coshocton, Guernsey, Butler, 
S A u g l a i z e , Scioto, Wayne, Ashland, Clermont, Hamilton, 
^ d u a k y and Portage. 
^nt A!" t h 0 U 8 h S O m e ° f B a n k ' s activities are similar in scope to those 
tskin 
l n r e 8 u l a t o r y Pr°P°sal8 by the Board relating to the deposit-
Act f activities of trust companies acquired pursuant to § 4(c)(8) of the 
aPDl< 
k 8 P r o p o 8 e d Ending activities require consideration of this 
Nation under section 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(38 Federal 
Sister 18691 and 28082)# 

4157 
-2-
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the 
public interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after that date, and (c) First 
Trust Company of Ohio, National Association, Columbus, Ohio, shall be 
opened for business not later than six months after the effective date of 
this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be extended 
f°r good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
Pursuant to delegated authority, 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B, Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 
P 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Mitchell and Governors Daane, 
dimmer, Sheehan, Buchar, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Chairman 
Burns. 

4158 
BOARD D F G O V E R N • R S 
OF 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
10/25/73 
A D D R E S S OrriCIAl. C n R R E S P Q N D'E N C E 
7 D T H E 
B O A R D 
October 25, 1973 
Board of Directors 
First Citizens Bank of Poison 
Poison, Montana 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of First Citizens Bank of Poison, Po]son, 
Montana, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appropriate 
State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions hereinafter 
set forth. 
1. Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit .liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
3. At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $200,000, and other capital funds of not less than 
$300,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
Regulation 11, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
the Federal Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
thereof. A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

4159 
First. Citizens Bank of Poison 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management or directorate of the bank, prior to opening 
for business, will be subject to prior review and approval by the 
Federal Reserve Bank. Since approximately 25 per cent of the shares 
of stock of the new bank have not yet been subscribed to, it is also 
understood that any further individual subscription in an amount 
exceeding 5 per cent of the total issue will receive the prior review 
and approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be trans-
mitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Arrangements will 
thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of Federal 
Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required reserve balance, 
and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock to the 
bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
to 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to the 
Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised that 
all of the requirements have been complied with and that the appropriate 
amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to the bank, the 
Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of membership in 
the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Bank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
i-o assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E . S Y S T E M 
Item No. 5 
10/25/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F T I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
fSlLRbf. 
October 25, 1973 
Republic International Company 
P. 0. Box 5961 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of June 5 and August 3, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("RIC") to 
purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of Republic 
Overseas Corporation ("ROC"), Dallas, Texas, Republic Dallas Limited 
("RDL"), London, England, and Republic International Finance (Asia) Ltd. 
("RIF"), Hong Kong, at costs of approximately $10,000, $250, and $2,500, 
respectively, provided the shares are acquired within one year from the 
date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of ROC by RIC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That RIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in ROC if ROC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if ROC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 
to RIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, RIC will 
furnish Lhe Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of ROC as it may require from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by ROC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if ROC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

• 4 1 til-
Republic International Company 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of RDL and RIF by RIC are granted subject to the same 
conditions set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph, substituting 
RDL and RIF, respectively, for ROC. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by RDL and RIF in England and 
Hong Kong, respectively, in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Dallas, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of RDL and RIF. 
The Board has noted that as of August 31, 1973, the foreign 
loans and investments of Republic National Bank of Dallas exceeded the 
guideline ceiling applicable under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program. 
The foregoing consents are granted with the understanding that those 
foreign loans and investments will be reduced promptly so as to eliminate 
any excess over the guideline ceiling sr.d on condition that the invest-
ments will be made only when there is adequate leeway under the guide-
line ceiling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
\ 

4162 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
lte,m N o* 6 
10/25/73 
UNITED VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Richmond, Virginia, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less directors' qualify-
ing shares) of the successor by merger to Bank of Spotsylvania, Spotsylvania, 
Virginia ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no signif-
icance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of voting shares 
°f Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
organization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of 
Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 14 banking affiliates operating 120 banking 
°f£ices, with aggregate deposits of $1.5 billion—an amount equivalent 
t o 14,2 per cent of total commercial bank deposits in Virginia. In terms 
deposits, it is the Commonwealth's largest banking organization. Ac-
quisition of Bank (deposits of $3.4 million as of December 31, 1972) would 
^crease Applicant's share of deposits in the Commonwealth by approximately 
J percentage points. Consummation of the proposed transaction would not 
3i&nifleantly increase Applicant's share of total commercial bank deposits 
ltl Virginia. 

4163 
-2-
Bank, which has but one office, is one of seven banking 
organizations in the relevant geographical market, which includes the 
independent city of Fredericksburg, the counties of Spotsylvania and 
Stafford, and that part of Caroline County that lies to the West of 
Interstate 95. The four leading banks held 95.7 per cent of total de-
Posits on June 30, 1972, while Bank ranked a distant fifth with 3.1 per 
cent of total area deposits. Applicant's lead bank, United Virginia Bank, 
is located in Richmond and serves the Richmond SMSA, which represents a 
separate banking market from that in which Bank operates. In addition, 
three other banking subsidiaries of Applicant are located in the Washi-
ngton, D.C., SMSA, a separate banking market from that in which Bank 
d°es business. The closest office of any of Applicant's subsidiary banks 
t o Bank is some 27 road miles distant in Doswell, Hanover County, Virginia. 
Consummation of the proposal would not eliminate any significant competi-
tion between Bank and any existing bank subsidiaries of Applicant, and it 
aPPears unlikely that any future competition would develop between Bank 
any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries because of the distances in-
v°lved and Virginia's restrictive branching laws. On the basis of the 
teeord, the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w°uld not adversely affect competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources as well as the future 
pr°spects of Applicant, its present subsidiary banks, and Bank are 
^enerally satisfactory and consistent with approval. There is no evidence 
the major banking needs of thearaaare going unserved. However, 

, 4164 
-2-
consummation of the proposed acquisition should enable Bank to initiate 
new services now offered by Applicant's other banking subsidiaries, which 
will include computer, credit card, personal property leasing, and in-
ternational services. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs 
of the community are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment 
that consummation of the proposed transaction would be in the public 
interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
o r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
®ucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

. 41G5 
Item No. 7 
10/25/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST & MERCHANTS CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Equitable Leasing Corporation 
First & Merchants Corporation, Richmond, Virginia, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
°f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Equitable 
Leasing Corporation, Asheville, North Carolina ("Company"), a company that 
enBages in leasing personal property and equipment. Such activities have, 
under certain conditions, been determined by the Board to be closely 
Elated to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(6)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
p°rsons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 21217). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls five banks with total deposits of $1.1 billion, 
^Presenting 10.3 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in the State, 
atld is the third largest banking organization in Virginia. 
(Unless other-
indicated, all banking data are as of December 31, 1972 and reflect 
bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
trough October 1, 1973.) 
Company, from its 12 offices in the southeastern and southwestern 
U 
1/ 
lted States, 
engages in the leasing of machinery, machine tools, industrial 
ifi.J'kese offices are located in Alabama, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, 
°rth Carolina, South Carolina, and Texas. 

41«6 
-2-
and office equipment, motor vehicles, furnishings, and fixtures to commercial 
and corporate lessors and also acts as agent, broker or adviser in securing 
such leases for the accounts of four banks located in Indiana, Illinois and 
Nebraska. It appears that approximately 85 per cent of Company's leasing 
business and 100 per cent of its agency, brokerage, and advisory business 
a r e originated within the southeastern United States and the State of Colorado, 
e v e n though its customers are located in 28 States. During calendar year 
1972, Company's volume of gross receipts from leases and rentals were slightly 
0 V e r $3 million. Company competes with numerous national and regional lessors, 
including national banks, that are engaged in direct lease financing; Company 
estimates that it has only a 0.25 per cent share of the outstanding lease 
receivables in the South Atlantic States. With the exception of one lease 
acquired by a subsidiary of Applicant in 1965, Applicant and its subsidiaries 
not engage in leasing activities. In light of the above facts including 
tl*e relatively small size of Company, the Board finds that consummation of the 
deposed acquisition will have no significant adverse effect on existing or 
f 
I/ 
future competition. 
j/ Immediately prior to consummation of the proposal herein, Company will 
c
cquire, for cash, the assets of Biltmore Leasing, Inc., Asheville, North 
off°lina ("Biltm°rc"), a corporation owned by the two principal executive 
ficers of the Company and their wives. Applicant states that all liabilities 
^ Biltmore will be paid and that the corporation will then be dissolved. The 
c
ease portfolio of Biltmore consists entirely of full-payout equipment leases 
°Vering small items such as cash registers and similar equipment used for 
^ fcail trade purposes; its service area consists of a small region of western 
Carolina centered around Asheville. Biltmore's lease portfolio is 
alucd at approximately $150,000 and its total assets, as of May 31, 1973, 
re $83,500. In view of the small size of Biltmore, the Board has considered 
e application as one to acquire both Company and Biltmore. 

4167 
-2-
Under the Board's existing leasing regulation and interpretation, 
a company may engage in leasing if, at the time of the acquisition of the 
property by the lessor, there is a lease agreement that will yield a return 
during the initial term of the lease from (1) rentals, (2) estimated salvage 
value at the end of the minimum useful life allowed by the Internal Revenue 
Service, and (3) estimated tax benefit (investment tax credit and tax deferral 
from accelerated depreciation) that will result in full recovery of the 
lessor's acquisition cost (12 CFR 225.4(a)(6) and 225.123(d)). Applicant 
3/ 
states that, with one exception, 
all of Company's equipment and motor 
vehicle leases are consistent with the requirements of a full-payout 
lease as Company recovers in full its acquisition cost of leased personal 
Property from rentals alone during the initial term of the lease. In 
this connection, it Is noted that the motor vehicle lease agreement 
offered by Company, while generally written on a 24-month basis, permits 
the lessee to terminate at any time after the 12th month. Upon ter-
mination or expiration of the lease, the vehicle is sold and lessee is 
•^gally obligated to reimburse Company for any deficiency between the net 
Salcs price and Company's unrecovered portion of the acquisition cost of 
3 / 
«— 
— 
Y 
Applicant states that all of the leases in Company's portfolio are 
^uU-payout leases with the exception of 12 automobile leases originally 
c
ritten by Alabama Auto Leasing Corporation, Birmingham, Alabama, which firm 
^ompany acquired in 1972. According to Applicant, the depreciated book 
alUe o f t h e VG|licies covered by these leases was $32,765 as of April 30, 
0 
* o u t o f total depreciated book value of $1,180,824 for all automobiles 
J^ned by Company. Further, all 12 leases are with a single lessee and all 
be off Company's books within 22 months. On the basis of these facts, 
t would appear that the portion of Company's business consisting of non 
ull-payout leases is dje minimus. 

4168 
-2-
the leased vehicle. As the Board has previously stated, it will permit 
reliance on an unconditional obligation guaranteeing full-payout recovery by a 
^ n a fide lessee which clearly has the financial resources to meet such 
1/ 
obligations. 
In this case, Company has stated that its leases are primarily 
with business organizations or, occasionally, professional individuals, such as 
doctors, lawyers and architects. Further, Company has indicated that it 
makes an extensive credit investigation of each prospective lessee. Accord-
ingly, the Board concludes that Company's leasing activities are within the 
Scope of the Board's existing leasing regulation and interpretation. 
Applicant's acquisition of Company would benefit the public by 
increasing the line of services available to Applicant's customers and, 
through access to Applicant's greater financial resources, enable Company 
to become a more aggressive competitor In the leasing business. It appears 
tllat the proposed affiliation would not result in any undue concentration of 
^sources, unfair competition, conflicts of interests, unsound banking 
Practices, or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
In 
i -
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
i s favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
^ 
Application of Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, 
a°-quire CNA Nuclear Leasing, Inc., Boston, Massachusetts (1973 Federal 
e r v e Bulletin 698-700). 

-2-
41f>9 
of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifica-
tion or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
i/ 
J-ssued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
6/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
It should be noted that the Board is presently considering adoption 
a revised real and personal property regulation and approval of this 
aPPlication does not provide any assurance that Company's leasing activities 
w i H be permissible under such leasing regulation. Accordingly, Company 
may b e 
required to discontinue any leasing activities that do not meet the 
requirements of the revised leasing regulation. 
BuchV°tin8 f° r t h l S a c t i o n ; 
Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
» a n d Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

4170 
Item No. 8 
10/25/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
AMERICAN BANCORPORATION 
Order for Hearing 
In the matter of the application of American Bancorporation, 
Columbus, Ohio, for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire up to 100 per 
cent of the voting shares of The American Bank of Central Ohio, Harrisburg, 
Ohio. 
On October 4, 1973, notice of subject application was published 
in the Federal Register (38 F.R. 2.7550). Additionally, in accordance 
with section 3(b) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(b)), notice of receipt of 
subject application was duly given to the Superintendent of Banks of the 
State of Ohio. Within 30 days thereafter, the Superintendent submitted to 
the Board in writing his statement expressing disapproval of the application. 
In light of the Superintendent's submission, the Board is required by section 
3(b) of the Act to schedule a hearing on the application. Accordingly, 
•iLJ-s hereby ordered. That, pursuant to section 3(b) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(b)), a hearing with respect to this application 
be held commencing at 9:30 a.m., on Thursday, November 15, 1973, at the 
federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, 1455 East Sixth Street, Cleveland, Ohio 
(Post Office Box 6387, Cleveland, Ohio 44101), before a duly designated 
Administrative Law Judge, such hearing to be conducted in accordance 
With the Board's Rules of Practice For Formal Hearings (12 CFR Part 263). 
Ilia further ordered, That the following matters will be the subject 

4171 
-2-
of consideration at said hearing, without prejudice to the designation 
of additional related matters and questions upon further examination: 
(1) Whether the proposed acquisition would result in a 
monopoly, or would be in furtherance of any combination or 
conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the 
business of banking in any part of the United States; 
(2) Whether the effect of the proposed acquisition in 
any section of the country may be substantially to lessen 
competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or in any other 
manner would be in restraint of trade, arid whether any anti-
competitive effects found with respect to the proposed 
transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by 
the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience 
and needs of the community to be served; and 
(3) The financial and managerial resources and future 
prospects of the Applicant and of the bank proposed to be 
acquired, and the convenience and needs of the community to 
be served. 
further ordered, That any person desiring to give testimony, 
Resent evidence, or otherwise participate in these proceedings should 
with the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
SVstem, Washington, D. C. 20551, on or before November 2, 1973, a written 
tequest containing a statement of the nature of the Petitioner's interest 

A 
H O 
J- < 
in the proceedings, the extent of the participation desired, a summary 
of the matters concerning which the Petitioner desires to give testimony 
or submit evidence, and the names and identity of witnesses who propose 
to appear. Such requests will be submitted to the designated Administrative 
Lav/ Judge for his disposition. 
By order of the Board of Governors, October 25, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 

4173 
Item No. 9 
10/25/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
REPUBLIC OF TEXAS CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Republic of Texas Corporation, Dallas, Texas, has applied for 
the Board's approval, under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 3(a)(1)), of formation of a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 100 per cent, less directors' qualifying shares, 
the voting shares of the successor by merger to Republic National 
fiank of Dallas, Dallas, Texas ("Republic Bank"). The bank into which 
\ 
^public Bank is to be merged has no significance except as a means to 
facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Republic Bank. 
Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor organi-
2ation is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the shares of Republic 
Bank. As an incident to the proposal, Applicant will acquire indirect 
Control of 29.99 per cent of the voting shares of Oak Cliff Bank and 
Trust Company, Dallas, Texas. 
As a further incident of the acquisition of Republic Bank, 
applicant will acquire indirect control of less than 25 per cent but 
than 5 per cent of the outstanding voting shares of each of 21 Texas 
banks ("minority" banks) as follows: (1) First Security Bank and Trust 
Company, Carrollton (20.00 per cent); (2) Bank of Dallas, Dallas (10.00 
Pet cent); (3) Fair Park National Bank of Dallas, Dallas (23.73 per cent); 
Greenville Avenue State Bank, Dallas (24.89 per cent); (5) The Hillcrest 

4174 
-2-
State Bank, University Park (24.90 per cent); (6) Lakewood Bank and Trust 
Company, Dallas (23.91 per cent); (7) North Central Bank, Dallas (24.50 
per cent); (8) Northwest National Bank of Dallas, Dallas (24.89 per cent); 
(9) Preston State Bank, Dallas (24.98 per cent); (10) Royal National Bank 
of Dallas, Dallas (23.47 per cent); (11) The Village Bank, N.A., Dallas 
(20 .50 per cent); (12) First National Bank of Duncanville, Duncanville 
(20.00 per cent); (13) First National Bank in Garland, Garland (21.19 
Per cent); (14) Midway National Bank of Grand Prairie, Grand Prairie (24.89 
Per cent); (15) Citizens National Bank of Greenville, Greenville (9.99 per 
c e n t>; (16) First national Bank of Irving, Irving (24.90 per cent); (17) Bank 
Lancaster, Lancaster (16.00 per cent); (18) First National Bank of Piano, 
plano (24.86 per cent); (19) The Citizens State Bank, Richardson (20.00 per 
Cent); (20) First National Bank of Mineral Weils, Mineral Wells (23.14 per 
cent); and (21) First National Bank, Wills Point (6.00 per cent). The 
described shares of the indirectly acquired banks are held by several trusts 
the benefit of stockholders of Republic Bank and, pursuant to 5 2(g)(2) 
the Act, Republic Bank is deemed to control such shares; by virtue of 
3 2(C)(1) of the Act, Applicant will be deemed to control such shares upon 
i t s acquisition of control of Republic Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
l n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

4175 
-2-
Board approval of Applicant's proposal to become a bank holding 
company does not signify Board approval of the retention of the above 
referred to interests in the 21 minority banks nor of the acquisition 
of additional shares in such banks. Applicant has represented to the 
Board that Applicant will file separate applications for prior approval 
by 
the Board for retention of its holdings in each of certain banks and 
for acquisition of additional shares and will divest completely its interests 
all of the others of the 21 minority banks. Of course, any such appli-
cations so filed by Applicant will be subject to the ordinary regulatory 
and legal process, including review under the statutory standards as set 
forth in § 3 of the Bank Holding Company Act. 
Applicant is a recently organized corporation formed for the 
Purpose of becoming a bank holding company through the acquisition of the 
v°ting shares of the successor by merger to Republic Bank (deposits of 
$2>071 million).2/ Republic Bank is the largest commercial bank in the 
° a U a s banking market and also is the largest bank in Texas, on the basis of 
deposits. Republic Bank holds, respectively, 27.7 per cent, and 6.0 per cent, 
°f total deposits in commercial banks in the Dallas banking market and the 
St- 
2/ 
ate.—' in terms of IPC demand deposits on accounts of $20,000 or less 
measure often used for a bank's retail significance), Republic Bank's 
^rket share would be about 9.5 per cent.—^ 
^ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, except where otherwise noted. 
2/ 
j- The Dallas banking market is approximated by the Dallas RMA which includes 
Has County and portions of six other counties. 
3 / 
V 
Banking data for IPC demand deposits of $20,000 or less are as of 
U n e 30, 1972. 

417G 
-2-
Since the application involves basically a corporate rearrangement 
whereby shareholders of Republic Bank will become shareholders of Applicant, 
no adverse effect on existing or potential competition is probable. Indeed, * 
a holding company with Republic Bank as lead bank may be considered to 
be a probable entrant into various local banking markets throughout the 
State and this should provide increased competition in such local markets, 
many of which are concentrated. 
Applicant, through its ownership of Republic Bank, will also 
°btain indirect control of various nonbanking companies whose shares are 
owned in trust for the benefit of the shareholders of Republic Bank. The 
activities of these companies are described in a Board determination dated 
September 10, 1973, relating to a group of corporations referred to collec-
tively under the name of Howard Corporation. This Board determination 
^viewed and confirmed grandfather benefits of Republic Bank with regard 
t o certain activities which are more specifically described in that deter-
mination. However, the Board has ruled that Applicant would not be a 
Accessor to the grandfather benefits of Republic Bank, and Applicant 
committed itself and is required to dispose of nonpermissible activities 
Within the 2-year statutory period prescribed in § 4(a)(2) of the Act. 
C°nsummation of the application herein will result in or accelerate the 
SeParation of the banking and impermissible nonbanking interests of Republic 
Such separation is a positive factor in favor of approval of the 
aPplication since such separation is in accord with the basic purposes 
o f the Bank Holding Company Act. 

-2-
. 4177 
The financial and managerial resources and the prospects of 
Applicant depend, at least for the immediate future, on those of Republic 
Bank which are regarded as generally satisfactory, particularly in view 
of the commitment of Applicant to have additional capital added to Republic 
Bank. The commitment weighs in favor of approval of the application. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
to be served are consistent with approval of the application and may 
Provide some weight for approval since it may be expected that Applicant 
w U l enter and bring its expertise and experience into various local markets 
throughout Texas. On the basis of all relevant facts contained in the 
record, it is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would 
b e In the public interest and the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
° r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,4/ effective October 25, 1973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
5uchptin8 f° r t h l S a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
r, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
4178 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
10/25/73 10 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
. .1 
' IUJ 
AOONf-BS OFFICIAL nOHI!r.SPI)NOrNCE 
I i} I l-'-vyC/ 
• 
TO TH C OOAKO 
October 25, 1973 
Republic of Texas Corporation 
P. 0. Box 5961 
Dallas, Texas 
75222 
Gentlemen: 
The Board lias reviewed your letter of September 28, 1973, 
in which you indicate you will abide by the Board's ruling that, if 
Republic of Texas Corporation ("Corporation") becomes a bank holding 
company, Corporation would not be regarded as a "successor" corporation 
nor a "company covered in 1970" as those terms are defined in the Bank 
Holding Company Act-
With regard to a divestiture of the beneficial interest in 
The Howard Corporation, et al., you propose a one-year extension beyond 
the two-year divestment period provided in. the Bank Holding Company 
Act. The Board does not have the authority under the statute to grant 
a one-year extension at this time beyond the two-year period. 
However, 
the statute does provide for extensions of time in which to divest and, 
should Corporation be unable to complete effective divestment of The 
Howard Corporation, et al., within two years from the date it becomes 
a bank ho]ding company, the Board would then be in a position to 
entertain a request for a one-year extension of time and would take 
into consideration the bona fide efforts of Corporation to effect a 
timely divestiture and the particular circumstances that would 
necessitate the. need for one additional -year in order to accomplish 
divestiture. 
Attached to your letter of September 28, 1973, was a list of 
banks (labeled Column A) Corporation would propose to acquire within 
and outside the Dallas SMSA, and a list of banks (labeled Column B) 
Corporation would dispose of. The Board cannot lawfully approve -he 
plan as this would have the effect of approving the acquisitions of banks 
prior to the time applications are filed and without an appropriate 
evaluation of all relevant facts. The plan as submitted will be used 
by the Board as a working guideline of Corporation's intentions 
and 
each application will be judged and acted upon on the merits, after it 
has been filed with the Board. 

Republic of Texas Corporation 
-2-
4179 
A literal reading of the first sentence of the' attachment to 
your September 28, 1973, letter is subject to the interpretation that 
Corporation would dispose of banks under Column B only if it is permitted 
to acquire all the banks listed under Column A. A subsequent conversation 
with Messrs. Aston and Hatfield, and a letter from Mr. Aston dated 
October 5, 1973, have clarified the sentence. The Board's understanding 
is.that Corporation proposes to seek to reach agreements for acquisition 
of banks listed under Column A and will seek prior approval as required 
by the Bank Holding Company Act. However, if Corporation is unsuccessful 
with regard to any particular bank listed under Column A, Corporation 
would not be precluded from seeking to acquire a comparable bank or 
banks listed under Column B. The Board thus understands that Corporation 
does not consider that its commitment for divestiture of its interest 
in banks under Column B is conditioned upon acquisition of all of the 
banks under Column A. 
It is also the Board's understanding that Corporation's 
applications to acquire banks in the Dallas SMSA will be submitted as 
promptly as possible, and Corporation has estimated that it will have 
completed filing such applications in about two years' time and that 
divestiture of the banks scheduled to be divested will be accomplished 
within said two-year period of time. Although this time frame was not 
confirmed in the October 5, 1973, letter from Mr. Aston, it is the 
Board's understanding that such omission was inadvertent and is in no 
way a retreat from the previously expressed position. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4 1 8 0 
B O A R D 
DP' 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF TIME 
ED ERA L RESERVE SYSTEM 
Jo/25/73 
U 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
l.llill. ? 
>-U la •" 
A o n R C s r . 
u r r i c i A i . 
c o r r e s c d n o c n c e 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
October 25, 1973 
Mr. Hillary 11. Holloway 
General Counsel 
•Fedora] Reserve Bank of Philadelphia 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19107 
Dear Mr. Holloway: 
We are writing with reference to the. proposal by CP Financial 
Corp., Bala Cynwyd, Pennsylvania, submit fed pursuant to sections 225.4(a)(1) 
and 225. 4 (b) 0 ) of Regulation Y, to engage c:_e ncvo, through a subsidiary 
known as CP Credit Corp., in the following activities: 
"Purchasing loan'.- or participations in loans from, and 
making loans to, an affiliated bank; borrowing from an 
affiliated bank, nonaffiliated financial institutions and 
others under .lines of credit or through the sale of commer-
cial paper; and maintaining deposits in an affiliated bank 
and other banks." 
In its letter dated June 1, 1973, to the Federal Reserve Bank 
of Philadelphia, CP Financial Corp. states that it has authorized contri-
butions to the capital of CP Credit Corp. in an amount not to exceed 
$100,000, but that it anticipates .such capital contributions will be 
limited initially to $25,000. CP Financial Corp. further states in its 
letter that it has agreed to guarantee not more than $50,000,000 of 
commercial paper to be sold by the subsidiary, but that it anticipates 
that such sales will not exceed $25,000,000. 
The Board understands that 
the subsidiary will operate from a single office in Penn Center Plaza on 
the banking premises of Central Penn National Bank and that sales of the 
paper will'be made in the Philadelphia and New York metropolitan areas 
'and may be made in the secondary market through investment banking agents. 
CP Financial Corp. has stated that its proposal is designed to 
enable it to compete with all major banking organizations in the City of 
Philadelphia that offer commercial paper as a form of investment. The Board 
understands that the paper will be issued in denominations of no le ; than 
$5,000, will have a maturity not in excess of nine months, and will be 
offered to money market .investors (not: over the counter to small depo itors) 

. 4 ± y 
Mr. Ililiary II. Holloway 
- 2 -
On the basis of these understandings, as the Board presently 
construes the Bank Holding Company Act, the proposal does not require 
the Board's prior approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and consum-
mation of the proposal would not violate section 4(a)(1) of the Act. 
Since the Board understands that the subsidiary will operate 
on the banking premises of its affiliated bank, there is no necessity 
.at this time to consider whether consummation of the proposal would 
involve branch banking. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
I 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
D I V I S I O N 
O F 
A D M I N I S T R A T I V E 
S E R V I C E S 
April 22, 1974 
TO ALL MEMBERS OF THE BOARD'S STAFF 
The Telephone Company has advised us that the cable 
carrying trunks used to connect the Watergate telephone system 
with the Board building system has been damaged. This means that 
no calls requiring the dial "7" access can be connected between 
Watergate and the Board's main building. We do not know at this 
time how long the situation will exist. Your patience is requested 
in bearing with the situation until the cables can be repaired. 
DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES 
