MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
March 15, 1973 

<|90 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, March 15, 1973„ 
The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a 0m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr„ Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr, Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mrtt Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrso Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr0 Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr0 Wilbanks, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
Consent calendar,, The Board unanimously approved the applica-
tions of (1) Hagerstown Trust Company, Hagerstown, Maryland, and (2) 
Plaza Park State Bank, Waite Park, Minnesota, to issue capital notes. 

3/15/73 
-2-
Copies of the letters sent to the applicants are attached as Items 1 
and 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a request by Northern Virginia 
Bankshares Incorporated, Arlington, Virginia, for an extension of time 
within which to occupy space in a recently-acquired office building. 
A copy of the letter sent to counsel for the holding company, with 
changes agreed upon during discussion, it attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Frost 
Realty Company, San Antonio, Texas, to acquire shares of the successors 
by merger to (1) The Frost National Bank of San Antonio and (2) Citizens 
National Bank of San Antonio. The issuance of an order reflecting that 
decision was also authorized., A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 4o A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 5. 
Pursuant to recommendations by Governor Bucher in a memorandum 
dated March 14, 1973, the Board unanimously approved (1) a letter to 
the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks requesting their suggestions 
and comments regarding a new name for the regional check processing 
centers; and (2) a letter to the Chairman of the Conference of Presidents 
seeking recommendations of the Conference regarding the establishment 
of advisory committees at regional check processing center offices. 
Copies 
of the letters are attached as Items 6 and 7. 

1)21 
3/15/73 
-3-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
International Bank. 
In a memorandum dated March 7, 1973, 
the Legal Division recommended that the Board determine that Inter-
national Bank, Washington, D.C., had terminated control over Central 
National Bancshares, Inc., Des Moines, Iowa, and that International 
Bank therefore ceased to be a bank holding company,, 
During discussion several questions were raised with respect 
to certain aspects of the case and it was therefore agreed that staff 
would provide additional information. 
Electronic transfer of funds. 
On March 6, 1973, the Board 
considered a draft reply to Congressman St Germain, Chairman of the 
Subcommittee on Bank Supervision and Insurance of the House Banking 
and Currency Committee^ regarding the relationship of savings and loan 
associations to the various developing systems for the electronic 
transfer of funds. At that time it was agreed to request comments and 
suggestions from the Federal Reserve Bank Presidents regarding the pro-
posed reply. 
At today's meeting the Board considered a revised draft reply. 
After a discussion during which several changes were suggested, it was 
understood 
that the draft would be modified in light of comments made 
today for further consideration by the Board„ 
The meeting then adjourned,, 
/Y' 
/ S e c r e t a r y 

* <>'*r 
B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/15/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 2.0551 
/»r'DRF£iU Of'FtCIAt CORRESPONDENCE 
TC THr EQARO 
March 15, 1973 
Board of Directors 
IIn g e r s t own Tr u s t C o mp a ny 
Hagerstown, Maryland 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the redera1 Reserve System approves the issuance of up to $600,000 
in subordinated capital debentures by Eagerstown Trust Company, 
Hagerstown, Maryland, as outlined to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Richmond. Aprioval is granted with the understanding that the 
sale of these capital debentures \ri J .i be con-summar.eri within six 
mo it lis from the date of this letter. 
This approva 3 is riven or; 
rhe condition that the capital v>otes cannot be called for redemption 
prior to maturity without: the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
It is further understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the pro-
visions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the 
nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting fa: th 
in bold face type thai the obligation is subordinated to the claims 
of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
sa?>: 
M i c.ha e 1 A. Gr eenspa n 
Assistant. Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G G V E R N D R S 
• F THE 
Item No. 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/15/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20OB« 
I 
A ' l D R E E S 
O F F I t - ' I A L 
C U R R K S r ^ a N U C N K E 
"1 O THC OfJARC 
March 15, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Plaza Park State Bank 
Waite Park, Minnesota 
Gentlemen; 
Pursuant: to section 217 .1(f) (3) (i) of Regulation 0 and 
section 204,1(f) (3) (i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $150,000 in 
subordinated capital notes by Plaza Park State Bank, Waite Park, 
Minnesota, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis. 
This approval is given on the condition that the 
capital notes c a vine t be called for redemption pri-'-r to maturity 
vithoul: the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval i 
granted with the understanding rhat the sale o.t the capital notes 
will be cotisummar.ed wi.tlvin six months from the date of this letter. 
It is further understood that any advertising with respect lo the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the pro-
visions of section 217,6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the 
nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth 
in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims 
of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corpora Lien. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
V,o* cow*,-. 
CM? 
... 
; 
! | 
W
: 
•f^URE^V' 
K i c h a e 1 A. G r e e n s p a n 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
or THE 
Item No0 3 
3/15/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D C J R F S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E H P D N D t N C E 
T D 
T H E 
6 n i . R O 
March 19, 1973 
Lathan M. Ewers, Jr., Esq. 
Hunton, Williams, Gay & Gibson 
700 East Main Street 
Richmond, Virginia 
23212, 
Dear Mr. Ewers: 
This is in response to a request filed by you on behalf of 
Northern Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Arlington, Virginia 
("Bankshares"), for an extension until July 1, 1973, within which 
Bankshares will occupy 17 per cent of the usable space in an office 
building located at 701 West Broad Street, Falls Church, Virginia. 
Both the percentage of the space to be occupied and aate of occupancy 
were nade. conditions of the Board's Order of Decerr.ber 12. 19/2, 
approving the application of Northern Virginia Bankshares incorporated 
to acquire Falls Church Mortgage Corporation. 
It is understood from 
your request for an extension of time time (1) managerial consider-
ations within the holding company have made the need fcr additional 
space unnecessary at this time, and (2) hardship would inure to a 
present tenant of the property if immediate, eviction were to take 
place. 
On this basis, you have asked that the Board extend the time 
by which Bankshares will occupy 17 per cent of the space in the 
building to July 1, 1973. A further commitment embodied in your 
request is that by July 1, 1973, your client will either have occupied, 
that percentage of space or disposed of the building. 
In considering the requested extension of time, the Board 
noted that, as of January 1, 1973, Northern Virginia Bankshares 
Incorporated has been in violation of a condition of the Order of 
December 1.2, 1972, approving the acquisition of Falls Church Mortgage 
Corporation. 
Moreover, this request for an extension of time was 
filed after this violation occurred. 
The Board urges that more 
attention be given to anticipating possible future violations so that 
a timely motion for an extension of time may be filed. Moreover, the 
Board cxpects that by July i, 1973, Bankshares will either occupy 17 per 
cent oi* the usable space of the building or will have disposed of 
same in accordance wich its firm commitment. 

9*28 
Lathan M. Ewers, Jr., Esq. 
-2-
On the basis of the foregoing, the Board hereby grants 
your request for an extension of time until July 1, 1973, to occupy 
17 per cent of the usable space in the office building located at 
701 West Broad Street, Falls Church, Virginia. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3'rZS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 4 
3/15/73 
FROST REALTY COMPANY 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Frost Realty Company, San Antonio, Texas, a bank holding company 
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 
all of the voting shares of the successors by merger to both The Frost 
National Bank of San Antonio ("Frost Bank"), and Citizens National Bank 
U 
°f San Antonio ("Citizens Bank"), both of San Antonio, Texas. 
The respective 
banks into which each Bank is to be merged have no significance except as a 
m eans to acquire all of the shares of the respective banks. 
Accordingly, 
the proposed acquisition of the shares of the successor organizations is 
treated herein as the proposed acquisition of shares of each Bank. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(c)), 
y 
Applicant also applied to acquire additional shares of Texas State Bank 
an<l Harlandale State Bank, both of San Antonio, Texas. Applicant has owned 
slightly less than 25 per cent of the shares of both of these banks since 
^-969 and has had buy-sell agreements with officers and directors of Frost 
Bank with respect to additional shares of both banks. Applicant has withdrawn 
applications with respect to these two banks and has committed itself to 
divest its existing interests in such banks within two years from the acqui-
sition of Frost Bank and Citizens Bank. 

t \ y 
-2-
Applicant was organized in 1966 to acquire certain assets of Frost 
Bank. 
Since its inception, Frost Bank has held 100 per cent of the shares 
of Applicant in trust for the benefit of Frost Bank's shareholders. 
Frost 
Bank, with deposits of $451.9 million, is the ninth largest commercial bank 
in Texas and the largest commercial bank in the San Antonio banking market, 
controlling approximately 1.5 per cent of deposits in commercial banks in the 
1/ 
State and approximately 25 per cent of deposits in that market. 
Applicant's proposed acquisition of Frost Bank represents a 
corporate reorganization, whereby Applicant, all of whose shares are held 
in trust by Frost Bank, would become the parent corporation by acquiring all 
of the shares of Frost Bank. 
Since Applicant's acquisition of Frost Bank 
is only a corporate reorganization, and because Applicant has voluntarily 
agreed to divest itself of all interest, including the shares subject to 
buy-sell agreements, in both Harlandale State Bank and Texas State Bank within 
two years from the date of acquisition of Frost Bank and Citizens Bank, it 
does not appear that any existing or potential competition would be eliminated 
upon Applicant's acquisition of Frost Bank. Similarly, Applicant's acquisition 
of Frost Bank would not result in any change in total market or State 
3/ 
deposits. 
I T Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to r e f l e c t holding company 
formations and acquisitions approved through December 31, L I U . 
3/ In commenting on Applicant's earlier proposal to acquireFrostBanK, 
Harlandale State Bank, Texas State Bank, and Citizens Bank, t " i t e d StateS 
Department of Justice stated that the acquisition of all 
have a significantly adverse effect on competition, as 
™
d
h
c
t
i
°
" 
of Frost Bank without the divestiture of Harlandale State Bank and Texas 
State Bank. 

»31 
-3-
Citizens Bank, with deposits of approximately $20.6 million, is 
the 19th largest of 37 banks in the San Antonio banking market, controlling 
approximately 1.1 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in that 
market. 
Citizens Bank is located six miles north of Frost Bank and its 
service area is entirely within the area served by Frost Bank. 
Although 
there is some existing competition between the two banks, several factors 
limit its importance. 
Citizens Bank primarily competes with three other 
similar-size banks located within a five mile radius of it. 
It also appears 
that the banking business of Frost Bank and Citizens Bank differ somewhat, 
in that commercial loans represent approximately 90 per cent of Frost Bank's 
total loans, whereas consumer loans represent approximately 73 per cent of 
Citizens Bank's total loans. 
Further, Frost Bank and Citizens Bank have 
keen closely associated since the inception of Citizens Bank. 
Frost Bank 
financed 40 per cent of Citizens Bank's initial capitalization and has 
loaned Citizens Bank funds for its banking premises. 
The chairman of £rost 
&ank controls 25 per cent of Citizens bank's voting shares and has a buy-
S e U agreement with the chairman of Citizens Bank with respect to an additional 
2a 
° Per cent of such voting shares. 
It appears that this close association 
between the two banks has grown stronger over the years and it is unlikely 
that such relationships would terminate in the future in the absence of this 
Proposal. 
In addition, within two years from its acquisition of Frost Bank 
Citizens Bank, Applicant has agreed to divest all of its interests in 
m arlandale Bank and Texas Bank, thereby adding two independent banks to the 

Sail Antonio market and reducing the amount of deposits Applicant and Frost 
Bank control in that market. On the basis of these facts, it does not 
appear that Applicant's acquisition of Citizens Bank would have a significant 
adverse effect on existing or potential competition in the San Antonio market. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Applicant, Frost Bank and Citizens Bank are satisfactory and consistent 
with approval. Applicant's acquisition of Frost Bank would not affect the 
convenience and needs of the community being served by Frost Bank. Upon 
acquisition of Citizens Bank, Applicant proposes to improve and increase the 
services of Citizens Bank by offering trust services, construction and mort-
gage lending and international banking services through Frost Bank, and by 
implementing a credit card program. Although the banking needs of the area 
being served by Citizens Bank appear to be adequately met at present, the 
increased and improved services Applicant proposes to offer at Bank should 
increase the convenience of area residents. Accordingly, considerations 
relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served with 
respect to Frost Bank are consistent with approval of the application, and, 
with respect to Citizens Bank, such factors are consistent with, and lend 
some weight toward approval of the application. 
It is the Board's judgment 
that the proposed acquisitions would be in the public interest and that the 
applications should be approved in light of Applicant's commitment to divest 
its entire interest, including shares owned or controlled by the chairman 
the board and directors of Frost Bank, in both Harlandale Bank and Texas 
Bank, 

J 333 
-5-
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve 3ank of Dallas pursuant to delegated authority. 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective March 21, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
4/ Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Brimmer, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governors 
&aane and Sheehan. 

«AlREsf: 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
334 
Item No, 5 
3/15/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 21, 1973 
AIR MAIL - REGISTERED 
RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
Frost Realty Company 
P. 0. Drawer 1600 
San Antonio, Texas 
78206 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the following applications filed pursuant to the Bank Holding 
Company Act: 
Frost Realty Company, for permission to acquire all of the 
voting shares of the successors by merger to both The Frost 
National Bank of San Antonio, and Citizens National Bank of San 
Antonio, both of San Antonio, Texas. 
In approving these applications, the Board noted that Frost 
Realty Company operates a data processing division. 
On the basis of 
previous information submitted by your company, it would appear that 
such data processing activities are of the type described in section 
225.4(a)(8) of Regulation Y. 
Accordingly, an application to retain 
the data processing activities under § 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding 
Company Act, as amended, should be filed with the Board. 
With respect 
to Frost Realty Company's ownership of mineral interests originally 
acquired by Frost National Bank through loan foreclosures, no re-
quirement for termination of such mineral activities is imposed on 
Frost Realty Company since the extent of these present activities 
appears to be de minimus; 
however, a significant alteration in the 
scope of these activities may be cause for reconsideration by the 
Board of this conclusion. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 

Frost Realty Company 
- 2 -
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the action herein approved is 
to be consummated, advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
, 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures: 
1. Press Release 
2. 
Order 

33£ 
B O A R D DP" G O V E R N O R S 
ZoVcoV;-. 
D F T H E 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
3/15/73 
§ 
F. \ 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
2.055! 
Mp 1 
liii 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E S P O N D E N C r 
T O 
T H E 
B D A K O 
March 15, 1973 
Over the past year or so, the Board has authorized the 
Reserve Barks to establish regional check processing centers in cities 
^here the System does not maintain Banks or Branches. To date, six 
such offices are in operation—in Maine, Connecticut, Long Island, 
Columbus, Miami and Des Moines. Additional offices will soon be in 
operation In Cranford, New Jersey, and Columbia, South Carolina, and 
others are planned in the near future. 
It has been suggested that it would be da .livable for the 
System t.o establish a suitable name for these offices indicating a 
federal Reserve presence in these cities without specifying a partic-
ular function such as check processing. The name should be of a type 
that would be suitable should additional functions be assigned to 
these offices in the future—to include currency and coin operations, 
for example—-without creating a full Branch. 
Several possible names 
have beeti suggested here at the Board including "Federal Reserve — 
(name of city or area) Office" and "Federal Reserve Bank of (District) — 
(rjame of city or area) Office." 
Before making a final decision, the Board would like the 
benefit of any suggestions and comments that you may have in this 
Regard. 
In considering this matter, you may wish to contact some of 
your directors to oample their feelings. 
Please forward your comments 
to me by April 16. 
At the same time., the Board has considered the feasibility of 
Authorizing the establishment of advisory committees at Federal Reserve 
Of £ 
ices of this type. Thin question is being referred to the Conference 
cf Presidents for discussion and recommendation. 
Very truly yours, 
Chester B. Feldbcvg 
Asf1 kstanfc Secretary 
THE rRESIDENTS 0? ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 

37 
o i0*ui*r j-.r^SiM \. 
B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5YSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item Noa 7 
3/15/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
u O R R E S P D N D E N C ! 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
March 15, 19 73 
Mr. Monroe Kimbrel 
Chairman 
Conference of Presidents 
Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta 
Atlanta, Georgia 
Dear Mr, Kimbrel: 
As you know, the Board has over the past year cr so 
authorized the Reserve Banks to establish regional check processing^ 
.centers in cities where the System does not maintain Banks or Branches. 
Six such offices—in Maine, Connecticut. Long Island, Columbus, Miami 
and Des Moines—-are now in operation and several others are expected 
to be in operation within a short time. 
The Board is currently seeking, with the help of the Reserve 
Banks, to find a suitable name for these offices which will indicate a 
Federal Reserve presence in these locations without specifying a 
particular function such as check processing. 
The name should be of 
a type that would be. suitable should additional functions be assigned 
to these offices a.: some future date. 
The Board has also considered the feasibility of authorizing 
the establishment of advisory committees at Federal Reserve Offices 
of this type. There is 
question, however, whether the establish-
ment of advisor.y commit tees ra^y lead to a mistaken conclusion that a 
Board of Directors is being created to handle- operations of a partic-
ular office, much like the Board of Directors at a Federal Reserve 
Branch. There, is also a question whether a sufficient workload 
exists to warrant an advisory committee. 
On the other hand, an 
advisory committee of limited size and scope might prove useful from 
both an" operational and public relations standpoint. 
It might give 
a region or community a sense of participation in an important 
Federal Reserve function and provide the Federal Reserve with a 
broader range of thinking from the business community and the public. 

Mr. Monroe Kimbrel 
- 2 -
To help resolve this question, the Board requests that 
this issue be placed on the agenda for discussion and recommendation 
by the Conference of Presidents at the earliest practicable time. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
