MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 7, 1973 

1553 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, May 7, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room at 
10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
if 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
The regular weekly economic and financial review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review have been 
placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the individual 
briefings. 
Mr. Rippey reviewed matters of interest to the Board presently 
being considered by the Congress. 
All staff members except Mr. Holland then withdrew from the 
meeting. 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1554 
5/7/73 
- 2 -
The Chairman emphasized that the absence of Governor Mitchell 
due to illness, and the current lack of a successor for Governor Robertson, 
made it imperative for all other Governors to make every reasonable effort 
to attend each Board meeting. He hoped they would each handle their 
schedules accordingly until such time as the Board was at full strength 
again. 
Secretary of the Treasury Shultz and other high Administration officials 
to discuss what might be appropriate Administration recommendations for 
legislative action as an outgrowth of the Hunt Commission Report. He 
stated that, while differences of view had existed at some stages, the 
most important Board positions in the matter (as reflected in the Board's 
letter of May 3, 1973, to the Office of Management and Budget) were now 
receiving favorable attention. 
particular attention over the next few days on the question of possible 
additional monetary policy actions that might be needed. He stated 
that some additional staff background materials on this were to be 
distributed to the Board by the end of the week; and he planned to call 
for early Board discussion of whether further actions were needed and, 
if so, what they might be and when they might be timed. 
Chairman Burns also reported that he had been meeting with 
Finally, the Chairman asked each of the Governors to focus 
The meeting then adjourned. 
