MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 13, 1973 

12-11 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 13, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Marinaccio, Adviser, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Messrs. Burstein and Gable of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Bank holding company debt. Documentation to assist the Board 
j 
n Judging the implications of bank holding company debt included a 
memorandum from Mr, Chase dated December 21, 1972, supplemented by 

1 2 4 
4/13/73 
-2-
statistics accompanying a memorandum of February 23, 1973; a November 
1972 paper prepared by Mr. Gable, Vice President of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Minneapolis; a memorandum of January 11, 1973, in which the 
banking Markets Section discussed problems involved in policing of 
bank holding company debt by the private sector; and a memorandum 
dated February 9, 1973, from Mr. Solomon. Two contrasting approaches 
for the Board to consider emerged from the staff analyses—one advanced 
by Mr. Chase and the other by Messrs. Solomon and Gable. 
Mr. Chase's memorandum began with the observation that 
although there did not appear to be any immediate threat to the 
Public interest posed by the lack of a clearly-defined Board policy, 
the trends toward increased leveraging by bank holding companies 
and increased participation in nonbanking activities that rely 
heavily on borrowed funds made it advisable for the Board to decide 
uPon a basic policy stance and develop a plan of implementation in 
the fairly near future. In his view there were only two sensible 
alternatives. One was detailed regulation of holding company 
borrowing (and other activities) that would reduce to an absolute 
minimum the probability of bank holding company failures. Companies 
would be treated very much as if they were banks, with periodic 
laminations and detailed regulations and reporting requirements. 
The other choice was to turn the policing of bank holding company 
borrowing over to the private market, with the Board making it clear 
ttlat it was not assuming responsibility for their financial soundness. 

4/13/73 
-3-
However, holding companies should be required to report detailed 
financial data that would be publicly available, and to assist 
Private analysts with advice and data. Also, statutory provision 
for regulatory and supervisory safeguards should be strengthened 
to prevent holding company problems from being solved at the 
expense of the soundness of subsidiary banks. Banks would have to 
insulated from their nonbank affiliates, including their parent 
holding companies, and not weakened for the sake of improving 
co-affiliates' earning capacity or ability to meet adversity. 
Mr. Chase recommended that the Board move strongly in the 
direction of private market policing. Failing that, he advised 
moving strongly in the opposite direction to control bank holding 
company borrowing closely. In his opinion, the most dangerous 
course would be to leave it unclear whether the Board or the 
Private market was doing the policing. In comments at today's 
meeting Mr. Chase said that although the basic question of the 
Board's responsibility for the soundness of bank holding companies 
had not been resolved, he had started with the premise that the 
Board should be responsible for the soundness of banks within a 
holding company. Whichever of the alternatives he had suggested 
the Board might choose, he believed that additional legislation 
W as needed. 
Mr. Solomon's memorandum set forth his conclusions that 
Prevention of excessive bank holding company debt (deficient bank 

1*244 
4 / 1 3 / 7 3 
- A -
holding company equity) and of bank holding company burdening of 
banks was closely related to the soundness and effectiveness of 
the banking system and the economy; that market restraint and 
regulatory restraint can be mutually consistent and complementary 
xn helping to prevent excessive bank holding company debt; and 
that the Board's previous recommendation to extend cease and desist 
legislation to bank holding companies should be renewed. In addi-
tion, he suggested a number of other statutory and regulatory 
changes and supervisory policy statements to strengthen restraints 
0 n bank holding company excessive debt and weakening of banks. He did 
n°t advocate regulation of bank holding companies in detail—that 
W a s n o t done even with respect to banks. 
In his paper Mr. Gable expressed the view that legislation 
a s it now stood left the Federal Reserve with implied responsibility 
c 
° r the soundness of bank holding companies and their controlled 
banks, but with no authority to fulfill such responsibility after 
a bank holding company was created and was not expanding. Corrective 
iegislation was needed. If unrestricted, bank holding company 
management would attempt to operate controlled companies to the net 
advantage of the parent regardless of how such activity might 
a j 
ersely affect individual parts of the corporate family. Banks, 
ho 
ever, were generally the only part of the holding company corporate 
family in which the public had a real and strong interest. Therefore, 

, 12< 
4 / 1 3 / 7 3 
- 5 -
the Federal Reserve, in supervising and regulating bank holding 
companies, must insist that the stream of nourishment in a bank 
holding company system flow to controlled banks rather than from 
banks to other parts of the group. 
The greatest dangers of holding company banking, in Mr. Gable's 
opinion, included (1) impairment of the credit standing of banks; 
(2) misuse of controlled banks to further the economic objectives of 
the parent; and (3) ability of incompetent, speculative, or self-
serving management to weaken seriously or cause the collapse of an 
entire group of banks. 
Discussion turned first to the question whether the Board 
had statutory responsibility for regulating bank holding companies 
t o maintain their soundness. The question was clouded; arguments 
could be made on both sides. It was brought out that the Board's 
opportunities to intervene in bank holding company affairs at present 
were largely limited to the time when the company had an application 
before the Board for expansion of its activities. 
Doubts were expressed that it would be possible to get the 
Public to regard banks and their parent holding companies as separate 
entities, even if that separation were made explicit in the law. Even 
there was no similarity in names, the link would be known. It was 
n°t to be expected that a bank would not go to the rescue of its 
Parent holding company or of a co-subsidiary if financial difficulties 

i 
A/13/73 
-6-
were experienced. The bank's management would consider that its 
reputation was at stake. Even a statutory prohibition of such rescue 
operations probably would be unenforceable. An instance in recent 
years was cited, in which a State member bank rescued a foreign 
subsidiary, but in order to do so had to obtain an indication that 
the Board had no objection. It might not be desirable that a 
statutory prohibition of rescue would preclude access to condonement 
by 
supervisory authority; there could be circumstances in which a 
bank should be permitted to aid another subsidiary. 
A view was expressed that although the Board now had some 
Power to enforce insulation of a bank from its holding company, it 
W a s doubtful, for example, whether the Board could require that debt 
lnstruments such as commercial paper issued by the holding company 
rcuist carry a clear statement that bank subsidiaries of the company 
were not responsible for the debts. 
Another comment suggested that although banks were now 
ass°ciated in the public mind with their holding companies, a 
transition might be occurring. Bank holding companies had begun to 
exPand their nonbanking activities only recently, and as this trend 
accelerated it could develop that some years hence banking activities 
would constitute a much smaller proportion of a holding company's 
total 
operations, and therefore might more readily be regarded as 
separate entities. 

1247 
- Jk^FSm S .6 
4 / 1 3 / 7 3 
- 7 -
It was observed that so long as the public identified banks 
with their holding companies, failure of a bank holding company, 
while not catastrophic per se, might create a dangerous jar to 
e*pectations that would be translated into loss of confidence in the 
banking system. The public now expected the Government to protect 
the soundness of banks, and if it became evident that that protection 
did not extend to bank holding companies, public confusion and 
aPprehension could ensue. 
It was brought out that Government regulation of banks was 
directed toward protection of depositors; nobody expected the 
Government to protect bank stockholders, although they did benefit 
from Governmental surveillance of banks in the interest of soundness. 
the Government undertook regulation of bank holding companies to 
Protect their soundness, however, the protection would accrue to 
their stockholders. 
Comment was made that another aspect of bank holding company 
operations that gave rise to concern was that they might provide 
a large loophole through which banks could escape the effects of a 
restrictive monetary policy. A bank that was unable to obtain funds 
from its usual sources in a period of credit stringency might have 
its parent holding company issue commercial paper and channel the 
Proceeds to the bank. The larger bank holding companies could issue 
Paper at favorable rates, and they were subject to neither ceilings 

A/13/73 
-8-
on the rates of interest they could pay nor to reserve requirements 
the funds obtained. 
It was observed that the data provided for bank holding 
company operations were principally for the end of 1971. Since at 
that date bank holding companies were only in the initial stages of 
the expansion of nonbanking activities that the 1970 amendments to 
the Act had made possible, figures for the end of 1972 probably 
would show a substantial increase in nonbanking activities in that 
year. it was suggested also that it might be useful to try to 
identify activities in which bank holding companies were engaging 
b ut for which they had not obtained approval from the Board. Other 
aspects of the problem regarding which information was needed were 
also mentioned, including experience with public utility holding 
companies. 
Other parts of the discussion dealt with the particular 
regulatory actions that might be desirable, perhaps going beyond those 
Suggested in Mr. Solomon's memorandum, and what might be required in 
the way of manpower and particular expertise. Although the predominant 
attitude by members of the Board favored the approach suggested by 
Messrs. Solomon and Gable (or a combination of that with elements of 
the private market policing and bank insulation recommended by 
Chase), it was recognized that more comprehensive understanding 

. 1 2 I S 
4/13/73 
-9-
needed to be gained. A suggestion was made for appointment of a 
task force of Board and Reserve Bank lawyers, examiners, and economists 
for in-depth study, but a majority preference developed for giving 
further thought to the analyses that were now available. Governor 
Bucher was requested to assemble the questions members of the Board 
would like to have explored, including the question of the Board's 
statutory responsibility, and it was understood that the Board would 
consider the problem further at an early opportunity. 
All members of the staff except Mr. Holland then withdrew. 
Presidency at Richmond. Governor Mitchell reported that he 
had attended a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond earlier in the week. Chairman Lawson of 
the Reserve Bank had discussed with his directors and with Governor 
Mitchell certain matters in connection with the selection of a 
successor to the late President Heflin. Governor Mitchell reported 
the essence of those discussions to the members of the Board as a 
Matter of information. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
