MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
August 20, 1973 

OlO 
t 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, August 20, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Daane 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 0'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Oehmann, Special Assistant to the General 
Counsel 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 2/ 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation of the Divi-
g J n of Supervision and Regulation in a memorandum of July 20, 1973, the 
H°ard unanimously approved the application of Hartford Trust Company of 
N e w York, New York, New York, a limited-purpose trust company, for 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to 
th 
e applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Bamerical 
Int 
ernational Financial Corporation, San Francisco, California, to 
Ccluire shares of a finance company to be formed in Asuncion, Paraguay. 
A 
CoPy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
2/ 
n ^ h d r e w 
at point indicated in minutes. 
^ 
ther officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3218 
8/20/73 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of United First 
Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, to acquire shares of First State 
Bank of Lutz, Lutz, Florida, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First New 
Mexico Bankshare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, to acquire shares 
of Grant County Bank, Silver City, New Mexico, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of The First 
National Agency of Aitkin, Inc., Aitkin, Minnesota, (1) to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of shares of The First 
National Bank of Aitkin, and (2) to continue to engage in insurance 
agency activities. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
these decisions. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting its denial, 
°n July 26, 1973, of the application of Tennessee National Bancshares, 
Maryville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of Maryville Savings and 
Ij°an Corporation (an industrial loan and thrift company), also of 
Maryville. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Manufacturers 
Hanover Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire indirectly shares of 
Manufacturers Hanover Leasing International Inc., a Delaware corpo-
ration, (2) Manufacturers Hanover Leasing do Brazil, Sao Paulo, Brazil, 

31219 
8/20/73 
-3-
and (3) Manufacturers Hanover Leasing de Venezuela, Caracas, Venezuela. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Chicago 
International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to acquire indirectly 
shares of (1) First Chicago (Venezuela) C.A., Caracas, Venezuela, and 
(2) Compania General de Inversiones Venezuela, C.A., also of Caracas. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 8. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international 
developments of the kind customarily given in preparation for meetings 
°f the Federal Open Market Committee. Copies of the statistical materials 
Prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
Governor Daane withdrew at this point and the meeting continued 
w i th limited staff attendance. 
The Board considered recent international developments and 
discussed a number of topics related to monetary policy. In this 
connection, consideration was given to a possible increase in the 
marginal reserve requirement on large certificates of deposit, but it 
was agreed that any action should be deferred until after tomorrow's 
meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee. 
Insurance agency hearings. In a memorandum dated August 13, 1973, 
'-he Legal Division recommended that the Board approve a joint request by 

OA^ivU 
8/20/73 
-4-
the parties concerned that the two remaining insurance agency hearings 
scheduled to be held in September be postponed. 
After discussion, the Board unanimously approved the postponement 
of the hearings. A copy of the letter sent to counsel in this matter 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
^ . G v J J U l w ^ . 
Assistant Secretary 

VoO^GOV;. 
B O A R D 
OF 
G D V E R N D R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
8/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1973 
Board of Directors 
Hartford Trust Company of New York 
New York, New York 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System approves 
the application of Hartford Trust Company of New York, New York, New 
Y°rk. for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, subject to the 
numbered conditions hereinafter set forth: 
1. Such trust company at all times shall conduct its business 
and exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and, except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
trust company shall not cause or permit any change to be 
made in the general character of its business or in the 
scope of the corporate powers,exercised by it at the time 
of admission to membership. 
2. The net capital and surplus funds of such trust company 
shall be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate responsibilities. 
c 
In approving this application, the Board has noted President 
^°nnell's letter of July 12, 1973, to the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
regarding the deposit-taking activities of Hartford Trust Company 
o f New York. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
ticular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's Regu-
^ation H, regarding membership of State banking institutions in the 
eral Reserve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 thereof 
CoPy of the regulation is enclosed. 
Is 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
^^ made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
Vh 
a n y documents involved, in order that it may be determined 
^ Gther such change affects in any way the trust company's status as a 
tnber of the Federal Reserve System. 

3«><>o 
AJ.^/O 
Hartford Trust Company 
of New York 
- 2 -
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
this letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the Board 
Directors and spread upon its minutes, and a certified copy of 
such resolution should be filed with the Federal Reserve Bank. 
rrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
Palate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
°f Federal Reserve Bank stock to the trust company. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
eserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
° 90 days from the date of this letter, unless the trust company 
Applies to the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board 
s advised that all of the requirements have been complied with and 
at the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been 
^ssued to the trust company, the Board will forward to the trust 
ompany a formal certificate of membership in the Federal Reserve 
Astern. 
m u 
T h e B o a r d o f Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
^enibership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
Pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
^ assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal^ 
^serve System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your 
U s t company means for making the services of the System most useful 
to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Closure 
Theodore E, Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

O O O Q 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
8/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1973 
Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of June 29,' 1973, the Board 
°f Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("BIFC") to 
Purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of. 
a new finance company ("FC") to be formed in Asuncion. Paraguay, 
t a cost of approximately <210,000,000 (about $80,000), provided 
per cent of the shares are acquired within one year from the 
aatc of this letter. 
o f ^ 
Tlle Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of FC by BIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That BIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FC if FC at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hold stock, or if FC establishes any branch or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes any operation 
in Paraguay or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to BIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, BIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of FC as it may require from time to 
time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FC be 
reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if FC were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

3224 
Bamerical International Financial 
Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
elate to restrictions on loans granted by FC in Paraguay in the 
currency of that country. 
th 
U P° n c o m P l e t i o n o f t h e proposed acquisition, it is requested 
Bat 
6° a r d ° f G o v e r n o r s b e furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
nk of San Francisco, with copies of Articles of Association, 
memorandum of Association, and By-Laws of FC. 
. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
vestment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
nes as they apply to Bank of America National Trust and Savings 
association and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
UNITED FIRST FLORIDA BANKS, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United First Florida Banks, Inc., Tampa, Florida, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a) (3)) to acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of the 
Fi*st State Bank of Lutz, Lutz, Florida ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
i n light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Florida, 
c°ntrols 31 banks with aggregate deposits of $971.5 million, representing 
2.69 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in Florida,U 
approval of the proposed acquisition would not result in a significant 
Urease in concentration of banking resources in Florida. 
Bank is located in the town of Lutz, in the northern part of 
Hillsborough County, which along with the community of Land 01 Lakes in 
Pasco County comprises the relevant banking market. Bank has total 
dePosits of $6.8 million, less than 1 per cent of the deposits in the 
P ^ l T b a n k i n g data are as of June 30, 1972, unless otherwise noted, 
n d include formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
U n e 12, 1973. 
3225 
Item No. 3 
8/20/73 

-2-
^atket. While Applicant ranks as the third largest banking organization 
^ the market, with 12.4 per cent of aggregate deposits, its three banking 
subsidiaries are in the southern portion of the market, more than 15 miles 
away f r o m 
Bank. Direct competition between Bank and Applicant's subsidiary 
banks in Tampa is nominal; Bank derives loans and time deposits from 
Tampa. Bank also competes in making conventional residential loans with 
Applicant's nonbanking subsidiary, Marine Mortgage Corporation. The 
e*tent of this competition is not regarded as significant. The small size 
of Bank, the number of intervening banks and the distance between Bank 
arid Applicant's subsidiaries make it unlikely that future competition 
w°uld develop between them. Applicant will not gain sufficient assets 
this acquisition to dominate the market or to foreclose future entry. 
Considerations relating to the .convenience and needs of the 
immunity to be served lend weight toward approval. Applicant proposes 
to expand Bank's loan portfolio by making instalment loans to consumers 
and also to offer trust services. The financial and managerial resources 
0f Applicant, its existing subsidiary banks, and Bank are consistent 
With approval, particularly in view of Applicant's commitment to improve 
the capital position of several of its other subsidiary banks. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

32Z7 
-3-
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors, 1/ effective August 21, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
ing for this 
Bucher and 

has 
Item No. 4 
8/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NEW MEXICO BANKSHARE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First New Mexico Bankshare Corporation, Albuquerque, New Mexico, 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
H<i\a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Grant 
C°Unty Bank, Silver City, New Mexico ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
s to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ f 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and viexv's has expired, and 
e fioard has considered the application and all comments received in light 
of 
e factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the largest banking organization in New Mexico with 
subsidiary banks and controls, in the aggregate, approximately 
w°uld 
$5^2 mi Hion in deposits, representing approximately 25 per cent of the 
Sositt? , 
m commercial banks in the State. Consummation of this proposal 
increase Applicant's share of the deposits in the State by less than 
Per p 
cent and would not significantly increase the concentration of banking 
U t c e s in New Mexico. 
Bank is the slightly larger of two banks in Silver City, New Mexico, 
Co*troll 
in8 approximately $14 million in deposits. Applicant's closest present 
ry is located more than 238 miles from Bank and there is no existing 
•"•on between Bank and any of Applicant's present subsidiaries. 

3 ^ 9 
-2-
Due fn 
the cyclical nature of the economy, which is based on mining, 
nd the fact that deposits per banking office in the Silver City market 
3te lou 
w er than the state average,de novo entry does not appear attractive, 
concludes that consummation of the proposal would have no adverse 
The Board 
Bank 
effect. 
Ls on existing or potential competition. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
ant (and its subsidiary banks) are satisfactory to excellent. The 
nar*cial resources and future prospects of Bank are generally satisfactory. 
aPpears to have a slight management succession problem as well as a 
Ptoblem 1 
^ obtaining competent middle management. Applicant would help solve 
Problem and provide continuous aggressive and competent management. 
C°nsider_. . 
nations relating to financial and managerial resources lend slight 
M g h t , 
favor of approval of the application. Uhile there is no evidence 
that the ha 1 , 
Danking needs of the public in the Silver City market are going 
Served > there are public benefits to be derived from this proposal in the 
Of n 
Proposed new services to be offered. Applicant proposes to have 
trust services, payroll accounting services, and placement of 
^ai e s t 
ate loans with permanent investors, as well as raise the passbook 
8*n n g s 
a te to the maximum. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
t,66ds Of th 
n e Community therefore also lend slight weight in favor of approval 
th, 
application. 
the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tea sons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 

3230 
-3-
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this 0rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
°rder, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors ^effective August 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEALj 
VOti 
jT' —— 
—~ •" • L.i 
Sl^Ghan
nSn 
t h i S a c t i o n : Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
» Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

3231 
Item No. 5 
8/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE FIRST NATIONAL AGENCY OF AITKIN, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Continuation of Insurance Agency Activities 
The First National Agency of Aitkin, Inc., Aitkin, Minnesota, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
I842(a)(l)) of formation of a bank holding company through acquisition 
80 per cent or more of the voting shares of The First National Bank 
o f Aitkin, Aitkin, Minnesota ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the BoardTs approval 
u^er § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of 
E l a t i o n Y to continue to engage in permissible insurance agency 
activitieS in Aitkin, Minnesota (population of less than 2,000), The 
Nation by a bank holding company of a general insurance agency in a 
C0l*munity with a population not exceeding 5,000 is an activity that the 
° a r d has previously determined to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
2 2 5^(a)(9)( i l i ) ( a ) ) # 
Notice of receipt of the applications has been given in accordance 
nth sections 3 and 4 of the Act, and the time for filing comments and 
8 has expired. The Board has considered the applications and all 
Merits received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act 
» and the considerations specified in § 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant, which is wholly-owned by the president and principal 
°l<3er of Bank, is a general insurance agency whose business 
Cions are conducted from the premises of Bank. Bank ($12.5 

/Oti/6 
-2-
^illion in deposits), the larger of two banks in Aitkin, a rural com-
munity in central Minnesota, controls 26.3 per cent of the total deposits 
held by the five banks in the Aitkin banking market and is the largest 
bank in that m a r k e t S i n c e Applicant has no banking subsidiaries, 
acquisition of Bank by Applicant would not eliminate any existing com-
petition. Moreover, it does not appear that the proposal would have 
an undue adverse effect on any other bank in the market, nor preclude 
t h e establishment of new banks in the area. Therefore, competitive con-
aerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
applicant and Bank are regarded as generally satisfactory and consistent 
^ith 
approval. Applicant will incur debt in acquiring Bank* however, its 
illComG from Bank and insurance agency activities should provide sufficient 
revenue t o s e r v i c e t h e d e b t adequately without impairing the financial con-
ditton of Bank. Although consummation of the transaction would have no 
Mediate effect on the area's banking needs, improved services may 
in the future under the more flexible corporate structure of the 
® company. Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
community to be served, therefore, are consistent with approval of 
application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the 
Pto 
P°8ed transaction would be in the public interest and that the applica-
tion t o acquire Bank should be approved. 

•jom o 
O / O O u 
-3-
Applicant is one of three insurance agencies located in Aitkin and 
has been closely associated with Bank through common ownership• Con-
tinuation of Applicant's insurance activities would enable Bank's 
Customers to enjoy the continued convenience of obtaining banking and 
insurance activities in conjunction with each other. There is no 
evidence in the record indicating consummation of the proposal would 
result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
c°nflict:s o f interest, unsound banking practices or other adverse effects 
On 
, 
n e public interest. On the basis of the foregoing and other facts 
eflected in the record, the Board has determined that the considerations 
Meeting the competitive factors under section 3(c) of the Act and the 
of the public interest factors the Board must consider under 
4(c)(8) in permitting a holding company to engage in an activity 
on th u 
e basis that it is closely related to banking both favor approval 
Applicant's proposal. 
Accordingly, the applications are approved for the reasons 
zed above. The acquisition of Bank shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
tbis Qrd 
er> or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thia Ord er» unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
^^ by M 
le Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis pursuant to delegated 
rity% The determination as to Applicant's insurance activities is 
b ^ c t to the Board's authority to require reports by, end make examinations 

O O ' ) 
O ^ o 
-4-
°f, holding companies and their subsidiaries and to require such modifica-
tion or termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
Provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and orders 
issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governorseffective August 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
looting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, 
s"eehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 

3 2 J i ) 
Item No. 6 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
8/20/73 
TENNESSEE NATIONAL BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Denying Acquisition of Maryville Savings and Loan Corporation 
(an industrial loan and thrift company) 
Tennessee National Bancshares, Inc., Maryville, Tennessee, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
H a S aPPHed for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 90 per cent or more 
f the voting shares of Maryville Savings and Loan Corporation (an 
irid 
Ustrial loan and thrift company), Maryville, Tennessee ("Company"), 
company that engages in the activities of an industrial loan company, 
Eluding the making of loans, the sale of credit life insurance and 
ctedjt _ . , 
accident and health insurance in connection therewith, the sale of 
Ptehensive physical damage insurance on certain personal property 
taken a s security in connection with loans, and the borrowing of funds 
at int 
e r e s t as provided by the applicable law. Such activities have 
determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
,A(a>(2) and (9)(ii)(a)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Person8 r 
co submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
d u ly published (38 Federal Register 10679). The time for filing 
and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of 
mHlion, representing 0.5 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 

, 3236 
-2-
. 
U 
xn the State. 
Applicant's lead bank, The Blount National Bank of 
Maryville ("Bank"), Maryville, Tennessee (deposits of $50.9 million), 
i s the smaller of two banks in Blount County and controls 45.5 per cent 
o f bank deposits therein. Both of the banks in Blount County are located 
in Maryville, a town of approximately 14,000 persons, situated 15 miles 
s°uth of Knoxville, Tennessee and falling within the Knoxville SHSA. Bank 
had outstanding consumer instalment loans of the types made by consumer 
finance companies of $1.6 million as of June 30, 1972, representing 12.2 
p e r cent of outstanding consumer loans held by banks and consumer finance 
companies located in Blount County as of that date. 
Contrary to the implications contained in its corporate title, 
Coi^pany (assets of $1.6 million) does not operate as a savings and loan 
aSs°ciQtion. It is an industrial loan and,thrift company and has so 
Setved the Maryville area for over 40 years. Company issues "certificates 
^ indebtedness" and with funds derived thereby makes signature, personal 
^r°perty, co-signor, and second mortgage loans. Company operates out of 
single office in Maryville and had outstanding consumer loans of $939 
th °usand as of December 31, 1972. Company is the third largest of 10 
Cor» suirier finance companies in Blount County with 12.7 per cent of the 
Standing loans of the consumer finance companies. As Company's sole 
C e is located only several blocks from the main office of Bank, both 
°£fir 
ces draw customers from the same local service area. Approval of this 
i ^ ^ 1 1 banking data and data pertaining to Company are as of December 31, 
* unless otherwise indicated. 

3237 
-3-
transaction would increase Applicant's share of outstanding consumer loans 
riade in the Maryville area from approximately 12 per cent to approximately 
io _ 
per cent, remove an alternative source of consumer credit, and eliminate 
direct competition for consumer loans between Applicant's lead bank and 
Company. Accordingly, the Board finds that the proposed acquisition would 
llave adverse effects on competition. 
Section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act requires the Board 
to find that performance by Company as an affiliate of Applicant "can rea-
sonably be expected to produce benefits to the public such as greater con-
Venience, increased competition, or gains in efficiency that outweigh possible 
dverse effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or 
Unfair 
r competition, conflicts of interest or unsound banking practices." 
The 
e basic balancing test of § 4(c)(8) requires a showing of positive public 
n°fits that outweigh the adverse effects of the proposed acquisition 
Scribed above. Applicant has the burden of demonstrating that the 
Pto 
P°sed acquisition will be in the public interest. In seeking to meet 
is burden, Applicant indicates that affiliation would increase the 
nariciai resources available to Company. Also, Applicant anticipates 
estabi^ 
Wishing additional offices for Company. However, upon consideration 
of t h 
e aforementioned anticompetitive factors, the Board finds that the 
P u bUc k 
. 
oenefits to be derived from this affiliation do not outweigh the 
e competitive effects of the proposal. 

-4-
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the 
tecord, the Board has determined that public interest benefits which the 
&oard is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) of the Act do not outweigh 
the adverse effects. Accordingly, the acquisition is hereby denied. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,- effective August 21, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Sh V o t i n 8 f o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
eehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Holland. 

a . 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
8/20/73 
A O O R E S 5 
O F F I C I A L 
C O S R E S P D N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
August 20, 1973 
Manufacturers Hanover Corporation 
350 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of July 9, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the provisions 
°f Section 4(c) (13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, 
a s amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for your 
Corporation to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, 
a ) all of the shares of Manufacturers Hanover Leasing Inter-
actional Inc. ("MHLI"), a Delaware corporation, at a cost of 
^10,000, provided such shares are acquired within one year of 
the date of this latter; (2) all of the shares of Manufacturers 
Hanover Leasing do Brazil ("MHLB"), Sao Paulo, Brazil, at a 
c°st of approximately $1,000,000, provided 10 per cent of the 
shares are acquired within one year of the date of this letter; 
a n d (3) all of the shares of Manufacturers Hanover de Venezuela 
t iIHLV"), Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of approximately 
j000,000 provided at least 10 per cent of the shares are 
Acquired within one year of the date of this letter. 
As subsidiaries of a bank holding company under 
^ction 4(c) (13), MHLI, MHLB, and MHLV shall confine their 
ctivities to international or foreign financial operations. 
, 
_ 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that 
Gir 3' n v e s t m e n t s will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
uicleliues as they apply to Manufacturers Hanover Trust Company 
u d its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

B O A R D D F G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No, 
8/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R O 
August 20, 1973 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
Chicago, Illinois 60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of July 19, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") to pur-
chase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the shares of 
First Chicago (Venezuela) C.A. ("FCV"), Caracas, Venezuela, at a 
cost of approximately $5,000 and all of the shares of Compania 
General de Inversiones Venezuela, C.A. ("CGIV"), Caracas, Venezuela. 
at a cost of approximately $5,000, provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of FCV and CGIV by FCIFC is granted subject to the follow-
ing conditions: 
(1) That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCV or CGIV if FCV or CGIV 
at any time fail to restrict their activities to 
those permissible to a corporation in which a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act could, with the consent of the 
Board of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if 
FCV or CGIV establish any branch or agency or take 
any action or undertake any operation in Venezuela 
or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to FCIFC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, FCIFC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of FCV and CGIV as it may require from 
time to tine; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by FCV or 
CGIV be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regula-
tion K in the same manner as if FCV or CGIV were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act; and 

3241 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corp. 
-2-
(4) That all assets and liabilities of FCV and CGIV shall 
be fully reflected in consolidated financial statements 
of their parent institutions filed with U. S. bank 
regulatory authorities or issued to the public. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on loans granted by FCV and CGIV in 
Venezuela in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and By-Laws of FCV and CGIV. 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that the 
investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The First National Bank of Chicago and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

'JO 
O ^ i / C 
B O A R D 
OF G O V E R N O R S 
Item No 9 
D F T H E 
8/20/73" 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H c 
B O A R D 
August 23, 1973 
Thomas M. Comparet, Esq. 
Ballantyne & Comparet 
10880 Uilshire Boulevard 
Suite 2003 
Los Angeles, California 90024 
-
Dear Mr. Comparet: 
The Board has granted the request jointly made by the parties 
°f record in Dockets LA-19 and 20 that the hearings in such dockets be 
Postponed until a decision is rendered by the Board in Docket IA-3-6-7-
12-13, consolidated or in Docket IA-8 or Docket IA-10. 
The Board will notify you at such time as a decision is 
reached in any of the above cases so that a prompt decision may be 
made with respect to further proceedings in Dockets IA-19 and 20. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
\ 
