MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
December 12, 1972 

3582 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, December 12, 1972. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Greenspan, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks and Mrs. Scott of the Office 
of the Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 

12/12/72 
-2-
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved publication 
for comment of a notice regarding whether certain activities are closely 
related to banking. The question arose from an application of Crocker 
National Corporation, San Francisco, California, to acquire shares of 
Shumacher Mortgage Company, Inc., Memphis, Tennessee. A copy of the 
notice published in the Federal Register is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Central Virginia 
Bank, Powhatan, Virginia, for membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Wells Fargo 
Bank International, New York, New York, to continue to hold shares of 
Wells Fargo International Investment Corporation, San Francisco, California, 
after the latter acquires stock of Financiera Nacional S.A., Caracas, 
Venezuela. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
The Board approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, the application 
of Winters National Bank and Trust Co., Dayton, Ohio, to establish a 
branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board approved, Governor Robertson dissenting, the application 
of First Union National Bank of North Carolina, Charlotte, North Carolina, 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. A 
copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 5. 

3584 
12/12/72 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Detroit Bank 
and Trust International, Detroit, Michigan, to acquire shares of North 
American Financial Ltd., Windsor, Ontario, Canada. A copy of the letter 
sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First City 
National Bank of Houston, Houston, Texas, to establish an Edge corporation 
in Houston, to be named First City International Corporation of Texas. A 
copy of the letter informing the applicant of this action and transmitting 
a preliminary permit is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, to purchase 
shares of Compania Exportadora Cityexport, S.A., Bogota, Colombia, and 
to continue to hold those shares after the latter issues certain debt 
obligations. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northwestern 
National Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, Minnesota, to establish a 
branch in Luxembourg. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved the request of the Trustees of 
Dartmouth College, Hanover, New Hampshire, for an extension of time to 
file their annual report as a bank holding company. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Trustees is attached as Item No. 10. 

3585 
12/12/72 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Northern 
Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Arlington, Virginia, to acquire shares 
of Falls Church Mortgage Corporation, Falls Church, Virginia, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is 
attached as Item No. 11. 
In a memorandum of December 6, 1972, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board conclude that section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 does 
not prohibit an interlocking relationship between a member bank and a 
closed-end investment company that issues warrants that are exercisable 
for a limited duration. A draft letter to counsel for INA Income and 
Convertible Fund, a new closed-end investment company, was attached to 
the memorandum. The letter was approved unanimously. A copy is attached 
as Item No. 12. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
NOW accounts. On December 5, 19 72, the Board had considered 
further the situation existing in Massachusetts where mutual savings banks 
had recently begun permitting negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW's) from 
interest-bearing savings accounts. At that meeting it was agreed that 
action with respect to this matter would be delayed pending the outcome 
of a meeting between the Interagency Coordinating Committee on Bank Regu-
lation and the Massachusetts State Banking Commissioner. 
The meeting of the Coordinating Committee and the Massachusetts 
Banking Commissioner was scheduled for 2:00 p.m. today. It was believed, 
therefore, that the Board should provide guidance regarding the Board's 

3586 
12/12/72 
-5-
tentative views to Governor Mitchell, who would represent the Board at 
that meeting. It was noted that financial institutions in Massachusetts 
were close to a compromise in which all interested parties would propose 
that savings banks obtain noninterest-bearing checking accounts. 
During the discussion support was expressed for the view that, 
despite the questionable long-run aspects of the compromise, the Board 
should not oppose it if it was acceptable to the parties in Massachusetts. 
With regard to the discussions with the Banking Commissioner, the view 
was expressed that emphasis should be placed on the Board's concern with 
respect to the situation in Massachusetts, although the problem had nation-
wide dimensions; 
further, that the Board was seriously considering several 
courses of action, including possible revision of Regulation Q, Interest 
on Deposits, and liberalization of the rules dealing with third-party 
transfers within commercial banks. The Board was also interested in 
learning of the action, if any, that was being contemplated by the Massa-
chusetts Banking Commissioner, in order that the Board might then be in a 
better position to identify the optimum course of action with regard to 
this situation. In addition, it was believed that, while the possibility 
of a public hearing should be noted during the discussion with the Commis-
sioner, this point should not be emphasized. 
After further brief discussion it was understood that Governor 
Mitchell would present the views of the Board in the form agreed upon 
today, and that the Board would devote further consideration to the 
Massachusetts matter following the meeting with the Banking Commissioner. 

3587 
12/12/72 
-6-
American National Holding Company. In memoranda dated November 24, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the applications of American National 
Holding Company, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of (1) The American 
National Bank in Portage, Portage, Michigan; and (2) the successor by 
merger to The American Bank of Three Rivers, N.A., Three Rivers, Michigan. 
Other related documentation included a memorandum from the Banking Markets 
Section dated December 4, 1972. 
After discussion the Board approved the two applications, Governor 
Robertson dissenting with respect to the American Bank of Three Rivers 
application. It was understood that implementing documents would be 
prepared for the Board's consideration. 
First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation. In a memorandum dated 
December 8, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval, while the Banking Markets Section recommended denial, of the 
application of First Arkansas Bankstock Corporation, Little Rock, Arkansas, 
to acquire solely the mortgage banking business of L. E. Lay & Company, 
Inc., also of Little Rock. Other related documentation included a memo-
randum from the Banking Markets Section dated December 11, 19 72. 
After discussion the Board approved the application, Governor 
Robertson dissenting. It was understood that an order reflecting that 
decision would be prepared for the Board's consideration, and that a 
dissenting statement would also be prepared. 

3588 
12/12/72 
-7-
Insurance Activities. There were pending before the Board (1) a 
proposal to amend Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, to permit simpli-
fied procedures for acquisition of de novo companies engaged in certain 
nonbanking activities, and (2) applications by holding companies to engage 
in insurance agency activities. In a memorandum dated December 8, 1972, 
the Legal Division recommended that the Board take the following actions 
with regard to requests that had been made by the National Association of 
Insurance Agents, Inc.: 
(1) Conduct an informal public hearing before 
available members of the Board with respect 
to the petition filed by NAIA for a formal 
proceeding on insurance agency aspects of 
the proposed simplfied procedures that 
were published for comment in December 1971. 
(2) In response to NAIA's petition, include 
solicitation practices of insurance agencies 
affiliated with bank holding companies as a 
subject of the informal public hearing on 
the simplified procedures. 
(3) With respect to NAIA's protest and request 
for hearings regarding several pending 
applications, formal proceedings would be 
conducted on each of the pending applications 
with hearings to be held where necessary at 
the appropriate Federal Reserve Bank. Each 
of the hearings would include all of the 
applications in an appropriate geographical 
area. 
(4) In response to NAIA's request for certain 
economic data, take steps to develop such 
information, both in the recommended hearing 
and, to the extent possible, through the 
Board's staff. 

3583 
12/12/72 
-8-
During the discussion alternative views were expressed and 
several possible courses of action were considered. There was concern 
that the approach proposed by the staff would demand an unusually large 
amount of time and effort. However, it was believed that in the circum-
stances the steps recommended by the staff were necessary. 
Ensuing discussion developed general support with respect to 
the staff recommendations. There was agreement, however, that the public 
hearing discussed in recommendations (1) and (2) above should be conducted 
by staff rather than before available members of the Board; and that the 
public hearings contemplated in recommendation (3) should be scheduled 
three days apart. In addition, Governor Mitchell expressed opposition 
to recommendation (2). 
The Board thereupon, subject to the changes discussed above, 
approved the staff recommendations, Governor Mitchell dissenting with 
respect to recommendation (2). It was understood that staff would devote 
particular attention to insuring that every effort would be made to restrict 
both the scope and number of the contemplated hearings to the minimum that 
would be adequate. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

3 5 3 0 
Item No. 1 
12/12/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
CROCKER NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Proposed Acquisition of Schumacher Mortgage Company, Inc. 
Crocker National Corporation, San Francisco, California, has 
applied, pursuant to section 4(c)(8) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, 
l°r permission to acquire Schumacher Mortgage Company, Inc., Memphis, 
i6rmessee, which operates various offices in Tennessee and Minnesota. 
L X c~ of the application was published on the dates indicated in nevs-
of general circulation as follows: 
1. October 13-20, 1972, The Germantown Star, Millington, 
Tennessee 
2. October 25, 19 72, The Commercial Appeal, Memphis, Tennessee 
3. October 13, 1972, Chattanooga News-Free Press, Chattanooga, 
Tennessee 
4. October 13, 1972, The Knoxville News-Sentinel, Knoxville, 
Tennessee 
5. October 13, 1972, Kingspore Times, Kingsport, Tennessee 
6. October 13, 1972, The Minneapolis Star and Minneapolis 
Tribene, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
The proposed subsidiary would engage in making or acquiring real 
loans, servicing real estate loans and acting as agent or broker 
sale of certain insurance directly related to extensions of credit. 

- 2 -
3531 
applicant states that these activities would be consistent with the activities 
specified by the Board in § 225.4(a) of Regulation Y as permissible for 
bank holding companies, subject to Board approval of individual proposals 
l n accordance with the procedures of § 225.4(b). 
Applicant proposes that Schumacher would also perform the follow-
services: I) general property management with respect only to government 
subsidized low and moderate income housing projects, such as section 226 
Projects under the National Housing Act of 1968; 2) real estate broker or 
a£ent with respect only to properties acquired by the bank holding company 
° r its credit extending subsidiaries as a result of a default on a loan; 
and 3) general, property management in connection with properties which 
a re the subject of permanant loans being serviced by Schumacher. By its 
° r d e r of March 23, 1972 (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 423) the Board of 
Governors determined that engaging in general real estate brokerage, other 
lhan i n connection with a default on a loan, is not so closely related 
0 banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper incident 
thereto. By its Order of March 28, 1972 (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 
the Board determined that engaging in the purchase and sale of land, 
and acting as a joint venturer in real estate development are not activities 
vtlat are so closely related to banking as to be a proper incident thereto. 
-une 20, 1972 (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 652) the Board announced 
tb r. r 
"<ll> vith certain exceptions, it does not consider property management: 
-vices a permissible activity for bank holding companies under sec-
n ^UJ(S) of the Bank Holding Company Act. 

3532 
Interested persons may express their views as to whether any of 
the aforementioned three activities which are proposed to be conducted by 
Schumacher are presently authorized to be conducted by bank holding com-
panies or are otherwise so closely related to banking or managing or con-
trolling banks as to be a proper incident thereto, in view of the Board's 
earlier determinations, cited above. 
Interested persons may also express their views on the question 
whether consummation of the proposal can "reasonably be expected to 
Produce benefits to the public, such as greater convenience, increased 
competition, or gains in efficiency, that outweigh possible adverse 
effects, such as undue concentration of resources, decreased or unfair 
competition, conflicts of interests, or unsound banking practices." 
Any request for a hearing on this question should be accompanied by 
a statement summarizing the evidence the person requesting the hearing 
proposes to submit or to elicit at the hearing and a statement of the 
reasons why this matter should not be resolved without a hearing. 
The application may be inspected at the offices of the Board 
of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. 
Any views or requests for hearing should be submitted in 
Pricing and received by the Secretary, Board of Governors of the 
Federal Reserve System, Washington, D. C. 20551, not later than January 9, 
1973. 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, December 13, 
1970 
(Signed) Michael A, Greenspan 
(SEAL) 
Michael A. Greenspan 

3 5 9 3 
Item No. 2 
B O A R D n r G L I V E R N C J R S 
12/12/72 
OCT O ^ V - , 
• 
O F 
T H E 
: "C;. 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A O D H E P G 
O K r i C I A L 
C Q B n E B P C N O E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
E U A R O 
December 12, 1972 
Boar J of D i r ec tor s 
C en tr a 1 V i r g 1 n i a B a n k 
-p °T.'/li a t a n, V i i: g i r\ i a 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
the application of Central Virginia Bank, Powhatan, 
Virginia, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, 
effective if and when the bank opens for business under appro-
priate State authorization, subject to the numbered conditions 
"ere in.after set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not. cause or permit any change tc be made 
in the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
corporate respcnsibiJities. 
3. 
At the time of admission Jo membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $300,000, ano other capital funds of not less than 
$130,COO." 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
Particular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
^;-£ulatiou H, rcrardiuK membership of. Srate banking ins I i i u i. ions in 
thn F.de..;;J Reserve System, with especial reference to Sec Lion 208.7 
teo £. A cop\ oi' the r ep.u la t:Lor? is enc 1 oseel. 

3594 
Board of D i r e c t o r s 
2 
-
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject tc prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If: at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's 
charter is made, the bank, should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, 
furnishing copies of any documents involved in order that it may be 
determined whether such change affects in any way the bank's status 
a member of the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in 
ibis letter should be evidenced by a resolution'adopted by the board 
directors after the bank has appropriate Scate authorization to 
commence business. A certified copy of stveh resolution, together 
^ith advice of compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3. 
should be transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond. 
Arrangements will thereupon be made to accept payment for an appro-
priate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit 
°-T- the required reserve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount 
or Federal Reserve Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Federal 
fcoserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
t 0 siv months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
t:he Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
t^at all of the requirements have been complied with and that the 
aPpropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
toercbershi.p in the System beneficial and your relations vith the Reserve 
^ank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank vill be glad 
assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserv 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank 
;r"-aris for making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
As3istant Secretary of 11 ie Board 
ic j osure 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
3595 
Item No. 3 
12/12/72 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
40 Wall Street 
New York, New York 10005 
Gentlemen; 
As requested in your letter of August 28, 1972. the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation. ("WFBI"), to 
continue to hold the shares of Wells Fargo International Investment 
Corporation, ("WFIIC"), San Francisco, California, after WFIIC 
^quires ™0 per cent of the capital stock of Financiera Nacional S.A., 
('"FINASA") , Caracas, Venezuela, at a cost of $2,273,000, provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter, 
this connection, approval is also granted for the purchase and 
folding of shares of FINASA by your Corporation in excess of the 
applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of Section 25(a) 
1*2 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) 
oi~ Regulation Ke 
The BoardTs consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of FINASA by WFBI is granted subject to the 
lowing conditions: 
(1) That WFBI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FINASA if FINASA at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if FINASA establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Venezuela or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to WFBI; 
(2) That, vhen required by the Board of Governors, WFBI 
will furnish the Board wich such reports regarding 
the activities of FINASA as it may require from 
time to time; and 

3596 
Wslls Fargo Bank International 
-3-
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
ss they apply to Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3537 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
, 
. 
_ __11__ 
Item No. 4 
v & g ^ V - 
D F T H E 
12/12/7? 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
7 
'""" 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
• M Hin^/f • 
n m i j l ^ . ' 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
r . O R R E S P Q N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
Winters National Bank and Trust Co. 
Winters Bank Tower 
Dav ton, Oh LO 45401 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission to Winters National Bank and Trust Co., Dayton, 
Ohio. pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
Act. m establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the provisions of 
such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting chis permission, it is understood that the branch 
•^ill be used for developing new international business and not as a 
^eans of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
is also understood that there is to be no contact with the local 
Public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
ma-ys at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the fore-
going permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review cf these 
types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or modified, 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against deposits in 
this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without benefit of the 
Eduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) or the ex-
clusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) the further 
c°ivdltion that adequate information covering the branch's operations 
vill be maintained at your head office and will be available to the 
Soard atvl its accredited representatives. The Board should be promptly 
^formed of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, in-
cUiding changes in any contract under which services are supplied to 
the branch, 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for busi-
ness on or before January 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
'teamed tc, 
been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 

3538 
Winters National Bank 
•and Trust Co. 
-2-
Pl.ease advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Cleveland, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in loca-
tion of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits pay-
able only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States 
of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any 
limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regula-
tion Q. Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to 
the reserve requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these 
exemptions is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to com-
pete abroad with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long 
been and continues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to 
discourage deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of 
United States banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a 
definite, necessary purpose in connection with foreign or international 
transactions outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assecs for purposes 
°f the foreign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board's con-
cern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
°f payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be pTaced on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

whs?.-
3!>*?9 
Item No. 5 
B D A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
12/12/72 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
, 
, , 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
o x ^ i ^ ^ , ^ , 
• 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
?irst Union National Bank of North Carolina 
p. 0, Box 10794 
Charlotte, North Carolina 28201 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
its permission to First Union National Bank of North Carolina, ("FUNB"). 
Charlotte, North Carolina, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 
of the Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand 
Cayman, Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch sub-
ject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. It is also understood that there is to be no contact with the 
local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and book-
keeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another 
Party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
Modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
deposits in this branch under Section 213.7 of Regulation M without 
benefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Section 213.7(a) 
°r the exclusion provided in proviso (1) of Section 213.7(b), and (3) 
further condition that adequate information covering the branch's 
operations will be maintained at your head office and will be available 
fco the Board and its accredited representatives. The Board should be 
promptly informed of any modification in the branch's methods of oper-
ation, including changes in any contract under which services are 
applied to the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
Object to the condition that FUN3 shall liquidate its tfassau branch 
Within six months c£ opening the Georgetown branch. 

36 DO 
First Union National Bank 
-2-
of j^orth Carolina 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before January 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted 
will automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Covernors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
bishing information as to the exact location of the branch. The Board 
should also be promptly informed of any future change in location of 
the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limita-
tions on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks. In these circumstances, it has long bean and con-
tinues to be. the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
kanks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, neces-
sary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, ad-
vances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for' purposes 
of the foreign c.cedit restraint effort. In view of the Board's concern 
with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance of pay-
ments, the above consent is given with the understanding that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
Resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign Credit 
Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

i -
3891 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 6 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I M G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
OF THE 
12/12/72 
/ S 1 D R E S 3 
D f n C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
Detroit 3ank and Trust International 
Detroit, Michigan 48231 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of October 25, 1972, the 
fcoard of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("DBTI"), 
t o purchase and hold 500,000 shares of North American Financial 
("NAF") , Windsor, Ontario, Canada, at a cost of approximately 
$5,100,000, provided 25 per cent of the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. In this connection, approval 
is also granted for the purchase and holding of shares of NAF by 
your Corporation in excess of the applicable limitations set forth 
in the provisions of Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)j of the Federal 
Reserve Act and Section 211.9(b) of Regulation K. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of NAF by DBTI is granted subject to the following con-
ditions : 
(1) That DBTI shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in NAF if NAF at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act could, with the consent of the Board 
of Governors, purchase and hold stock, or if NA? 
establishes any branch or agcncy or takes any 
action or undertakes any operation in Canada or 
elsewhere, in any manner, which at the time would 
not be permissible to DBTI; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, DBTI 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of NAF as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by NAF 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
iu the same manner as if NAF were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal 
Reserve Act,, 

3«02 
Detroit Bank and Trust International 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the 3oard suspends, 
Ur*til further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) of the immediately 
Preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they relate to restrictions 
011 loans granted by NAF in Canada in the currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve^ 
Bank of Chicago, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum of 
Association, and 3y-Laws of NAF. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3«03 
B O A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
OF THE 
Item No. 7 
• ! M M & . 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
1 2 / 1 2 / 7 2 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A
D
D
R
E
S
3 
n r r , C I A l - 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
First City National 3ank of Houston 
0. Box 2557 
Houston, Texas 77001 
Gentlemen: 
^ 
The Board of Governors has approved the Articles of 
Association and the Organization Certificate, dated September 21, 
o f First City International Corporation of Texas, and there 
is enclosed a preliminary permit authorizing that Corooration to" 
xercise such of the powers conferred by Section 25(a) of the 
eueral Reserve Act as are incidental and preliminary to its 
organization. 
tt 
Except as provided in Section 211.3(a) of Regulation K, 
Corporation may not exercise any of the powers conferred by 
^ t l o n 2 5(a) until it has received a final permit from the Board 
^Authorizing it generally to commence business. Before the Board 
is-ue its final permit to commence business, the president, 
treasurer, or secretary, together with at least three of the 
R e c t o r s , must certify (1) that each director is a citizen of the 
t 
States; (2) that a majority of the shares of capital stock 
t}
s neld and owned by citizens of the United States, by corporations 
e controlling interest in which is owned by citizens of the 
States, chartered under the laws of the United States or of 
•-tate of the United States or by firms or companies the controlling 
i n w h i c h i s owned by citizens of the United States; and 
authorized capital stock specified in the Articles of 
-sociation at least 25 per cent has been paid in in cash and that 
cn shareholder has individually paid in in cash at least 25 per cent 
118 stock subscription. Thereafter, the treasurer or secretary 
^ a U certify to the payment of the remaining instalments as and when 
aCh- is paid in, in accordance with law. 
j 
Your attention is directed to the fact that First City 
•^national Corporation of Texas will have no ceiling of its own 
3\,GC>1 the Foreign Credit Restraint Program and the foregoing approval 
32-ven on condition that any foreign loans and investments of the 

3604 
First City National Bank cf Houston 
-2-
Corporation will be made within the Guidelines as they apply to the 
foreign lending and investment activities of First City National 
Bank of Houston and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

3605 
B D A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
OFTHE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, •. C. 20531 
December 12, 1972 
Preliminary Permit 
IT IS HEREBY CERTIFIED that the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System, pursuant to authority vested in it by 
Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, as amended, has this day 
approved the Articles of Association and Organization Certificate 
dated September 21, 1972, of FIRST CITY INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 
TEXASj duly filed with said Board of Governors, and that 
?IRST CITY INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION OF TEXAS is authorized to 
exercise such of the powers conferred upon it by said Section 25(a) 
as are incidental and preliminary to its organization pending the 
issuance by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of 
a final permit generally to commence business in accordance with the 
Provisions of said Section 25(a) and the rules and regulations of 
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System issued pursuant 
thereto, 
BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
By 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

3 « 6 
B O A R D 
O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 8 
• F T H E 
1 2 / 1 2 / 7 2 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L . 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
* 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
'•^tREStf.-' 
December 12, 1972 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
ttew York, New York 
10022 
Gentl emen: 
As requested in your letter of October 13, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, ("FNCOIC"), 
t o purchase and hold, directly or indireccly, all of the shares 
of Ccmpania Exportadora Cityexport, S.A*, ("CEC"), Bogota, Colombia, 
p-t a cost of approximately P6S,2Q0,000 (about $3,140,000), provided 
the shares are acquired within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
0 £ shares of CEC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in CEC if CEC at any time fails 
to restrict its activities to those permissible to 
a corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if CEC establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
Colombia or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, 
FNCOIC will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of CEC as it may require 
from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by CEC 
be reported under Section 211,5(G) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if CEC were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act o 

oo J7 
First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the 3oard 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
°f the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on loans granted by CEC in Colombia in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
°f Association, and By-Laws of CEC. 
The Board also grants permission for FNCOIC to continue 
to bold the stock of CEC after CEC issues obligations with maturi-
ties in excess of one year up to an amount of $15,000}000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
» 

3608 
B O A R D L1F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 9 
OF THE 
_ _ _ _ _ _ 
12/12/72 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
• F*F( C ! A L. 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
s0tthw2stern National Bank of Minneapolis 
u. and Marquette Avenue 
inneapolis, Minnesota 55480 
^tlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants its 
Permissicn t-n Northwestern National Bank of Minneapolis, Minneapolis, 
P e s e t a , pursuant to the provisions of Section 25 of the Federal Reserve 
to establish a branch in Luxembourg, and to operate and maintain sucn 
r*uch subject to the provisions of such Section and of Regulation M, 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for business 
h
U 
before January 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be aeemed to 
t * V £ > e n abandoned and the. authority hereby granted will automatically 
^inate on that date. 
* 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal Reserve 
of Minneapolis, when the branch is opened for business, furnishing 
Sfor®atlon as'to the exact location of the branch. The Board should also 
j Promptly informed of any future change in location of the branch in 
... 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds pro-
by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, advances, 
/ otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for purposes ot the 
J^ign credit restraint effort. In view of the Board1 s concern with 
0, 
operations maximum reliance wixj. u« u^.cu 
, 
-
the United States. Furthermore, it is understood that the invest-
e d Squired will be made in conformity with the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Klines as they apply to your bank and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
ftvjci O'ctK. y Ox tr«e 

BOARD 
OF G• VERN 
• RS 
^ 
OF THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
12/12/72 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R D t S P O N O C N C l ' 
TD THE BQAUD 
December 13, 1972 
S. John Stebbins 
trustees of Dartmouth College 
c/o Stebbins &. Bradley 
South Park Street 
Hanover, New Hampshire 03755 
Dear sir: 
I am writing to inform you that the Board has granted an 
extension of 60 days after November 10, 197 2, in which to file your 
annual report for the period ended June 30, 1972. 
Your Registration Statement dated June 22, 1971, states 
intention of reducing your investment in the Dartmouth National 
Wnk of Hanover to such a level that you would no longer be considered 
to bo a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 
as amended. Divestiture of your holdings in the bank to below 
per cent would not necessarily accomplish this purpose. To terminate 
it]£ company status the company must show that it does not exercise 
Cl controlling influence over the management or policies of the bank 
and !;hr. 
Board requires convincing evidence to this effect. Normally, 
a reduction in holding to 5 per cent or less is required to make such 
a showing. 
In view of the particular circumstances of your case, and 
'Pon your divestiture to an interest between 5 and 25 per cent or the 
ank, the Board will waive the requirement for submission of an annual 
^o.pori:. The holding company would remain subject to all other provi-
sions of the Bank Holding Company Act and may not acquire any interest 
above .5 per cent in any additional bank or nonbanking company without 
Boarci approval. 

361 
Mr. s. John St ebb in?; 
-2-
Upon your presentation to the Board of convincing evidence 
that you are not able to exercise a controlling influence over the 
bank's management or policies despite the retention of some interest 
in the bank (perhaps even over 5 per cent)> you would be in a favorable 
Position for obtaining a Board determination that holding company 
status has been terminated. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

3 6 1 1 
Item No. 11 
12/12/72 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
NORTHERN VIRGINIA BANKSHARES INCORPORATED 
Order Approving Acquisition of Falls Church Mortgage Corporation 
Northern Virginia Bankshares Incorporated, Arlington, Virginia 
("Applicant"), a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under 
§ 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to 
acquire all of the voting shares of Falls Church Mortgage Corporation 
("Company"), Falls Church, Virginia, a company that engages in the 
activlties of a mortgage company and which proposes to engage de novo 
l n (1) originating mortgage loans as agent, (2) servicing mortgage loans 
subsidiaries of Applicant, and (3) acting as agent for the sale of 
Credit life, credit disability, mortgage redemption and mortgage cancel-
ation insurance in connection with extensions of credit. Such 
activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related to 
t h e business of banking (12 CFR 225.(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r s°ns to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
h 
* 
n a s been duly published (37 Federal Register 23755). The time for 
^ling comments and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls three banks with aggregate deposits of 
^Proximately $22 million, representing 0.2 per cent of total commercial 
j 
P°sits in Virginia. 1/ Each of Applicant's subsidiary banks is located 
All banking data are as of December 31, 1971. 

- 2 -
in the Northern Virginia portion of the Washington, D. C., banking market, 
where they hold in the aggregate less than 1 per cent of the commercial bank 
dePosits in that market. Although Applicant's banking subsidiaries 
originate and service mortgage loans for their own portfolio, their 
share of total mortgage loans in this market is negligible. 
Company operates from a single office in Falls Church, where 
lt is engaged in originating and servicing mortgage loans.U 
In 1971, 
Company originated $936,000 in mortgage loans for sale to investors, 
and $154,000 in loans for its own account. The combined share of total 
mortgage originations in the Washington banking market by Applicant and 
Company is substantially less than 1 per cent of the total mortgage 
recordings in this market. In view of the relatively large number of 
other mortgage lenders in the market, elimination of this small amount 
o f local competition would have no significantly adverse effect on 
tt°ttgage lending in the area. Company also proposes to engage de novo 
i n the sale of credit life, credit disability, mortgage redemption and 
Mortgage cancellation insurance in connection with loans it originates 
°r services. Due to the limited nature of its insurance activities 
y 
Company is also engaged in leasing real property, which consists 
Primarily of an office building located in Falls Church. Applicant has 
committed itself, contingent upon approval of this application, to 
°ccupy approximately 17 per cent of the usable space in this building by 
January 1, 1973, and an additional 69 per cent of the rentable space as 
J* becomes available in the near future. In making its determination 
erein, the Board has relied upon Applicant's commitment relating to 
° C cu p a i Ky of this building. 

3SI3 
- 3 -
*t does not appear that Company's entry into such activities would 
have any significant effect on either existing or potential competition. 
Approval of the proposed acquisition will make available to 
Company the financial and managerial resources of Applicant, and permit 
Company to compete more effectively with the numerous mortgage depart-
ments of large banks and savings and loan associations in the area. 
Applicant also proposes to furnish additional funds to Company to 
increase the quantity of loans that Company can make for its own account. 
0 n balance, the Board concludes that these public benefits outweigh 
any possible adverse effect on competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
^termination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modification 
°r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
t h e provisions and purposes of the Act, and the Board's regulations 
and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective December 12, 1972. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
Mitchell, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane 
a n d Brimmer. 

' 
A 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 12 
OR THE 
m u n i 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
RE^.' 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2055! 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 12, 1972 
Bruce D. Shuter, Esq. 
Drinker, Biddle & Reath 
1100 Philadelphia National Bank Building 
Broad and Chestnut Streets 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
19107 
Dear Mr. Shuter: 
This is in reference to your letters of October 4, 1972 and 
November 10, 1972 in which you requested the Board's advice as to 
whether section 32 of the Banking Act of 1933 prohibits the service 
as directors of INA Income and Convertible fund ("Fund"), a proposed 
new closed-end investment company, of Terrerice Hanold, a director of 
First National Bank of Minneapolis, and Samuel K. Ballen, the president 
and director of Fidelity Bank, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. You indi-
cate that the Fund would like to offer to shareholders, who purchase 
sharas in the initial public offering, warrants to acquire additional 
shares, 
The warrant offering would operate as follows: Each share-
holder who purchases shares in the initial public offering will have 
a noa-transferable right to acquire, additional shares of the Fund at 
the net asset value next determined after receipt of the purchase 
order from the shareholder. 
Such share purchases would be limited to 
a quantity equal to the number of shares he purchased in the offering 
and such rights would be exercisable only to the extent that the 
original Fund shares so purchased are still held by the original 
Purchaser, or his spouse, his children under the age of 21, or his 
legal representatives. These rights would be exercisable in whole 
in part during the 12-month period commencing 90 days after the 
termination of the offering. 
You state further that the plan is designed solely to aid 
fcne marketability of the initial offering by permitting the share-
holders in the initial offering to have a possibility of reducing 
their sales charge by making advantageous subsequent investments in 
t;he Fund. 
Since many closed-end funds, if not most, have traded at 
a discount from ret asset value much of the time, you indicate that 
the warrants may never be exercised. 

Bruce D. Shuter, Esq. 
- 2 -
On the basis of the facts stated, the Board concluded that 
the Fund would not be primarily engaged in the business of issuing 
or distributing securities for the purposes of section 32 of the 
Banking Act of 1933. A substantial change in the facts presented 
c°uld, of course, require a different conclusion. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Michael A. Greenspan 
Michael A. Greenspan 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
