MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 1, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 
1 Disapproval of proposed reduction in 
discount rHt6 Et Federal Reserve Bank 
of Boston. 

r, 1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 1, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Discount rate. Subject to review and determination by the 
Board of Governors, the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston had taken action on October 29, 1973, to establish a rate of 
7-1/4 per cent (a decrease from 7-1/2 per cent) on loans to member 
banks under sections 13 and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act. The 
directors had also acted to establish correspondingly lower subsidiary 
rates on advances under other sections of the Act. The Board previously 
had voted unanimously on October 4 and again on October 17 to disapprove 
the reductions of 1/4 percentage point then pending at the Boston Bank. 

11/1/73 
-2-
After reviewing a variety of considerations bearing on the 
current action, the Board members concluded that a reduction would 
not be desirable. 
The members took particular note of the continuing 
advance in over-all economic activity and the prospects for increased 
defense spending due to the war in the Middle East. They concluded 
that the current economic situation and the outlook for strength in 
key sectors of the economy were reasons for not approving a lower 
discount rate at this time. 
The Board members also felt that an action to reduce the 
discount rate was likely to be interpreted under present circumstances 
as an overt signal of significant easing in monetary policy. 
In that 
connection they took account of the cautious atmosphere that had developed 
recently in short-term debt markets, as earlier expectations of a 
markedly easier monetary policy were being replaced by a wait-and-see 
attitude. 
The failure of the Federal funds rate to decline as much as 
many market observers had anticipated and the recent indications of 
stronger growth in the monetary aggregates had contributed to this 
market reassessment and to a moderate rise in short-term market rates. 
For example, the 3-month Treasury bill rate was bid at 7.41 per cent 
this morning, up from a recent low of 7.02 per cent on October 24. In 
this situation the members believed that a reduction in the discount 
rate would have a strong announcement effect and would give a misleading 
indication of the current 
thrust of monetary policy. 
The consequences 
were likely to be an unwarranted decline in short-term interest rates 

11/1/73 
- 3 -
and an adverse impact on over-all inflationary psychology. 
Individual 
Board members observed that the Board might well want to use the 
discount rate for its announcement effects at a later date when economic 
conditions suggested the need to initiate significant easing in the 
posture of monetary policy. 
At the conclusion of the discussion, the Board voted unanimously 
to disapprove the pending discount rate reduction, with the understanding 
that a letter outlining the major reasons for the Board's decision would 
be sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. 
It was also understood 
that the substance of the letter, without identification of the Bank 
involved, would be communicated to the Presidents of the other Reserve 
B anks. 
A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Boston and a copy of the memorandum sent to the Presidents of the 
other Federal Reserve Banks, both dated November 1, 19 73, are attached 
as Iterns 1 and 2. / 
Other discount rates. The establishment without change by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Chicago, 
St. Louis, and Dallas on October 25, 1973, of the rates on advances 
and discounts in their existing schedules was approved unanimously, 
with the understanding that appropriate advice would be sent to those 
Banks. 
All members of the staff then withdrew and the Board went into 
executive session. 

A 1 
it J.*./.J 
11/1/73 
- 4 -
Staff reorganization. 
Chairman Burns reviewed the proposed 
staff reorganization presented in Governor Holland's memorandum to him 
dated August 22, 1973 (copy attached as Item No. 3) . He indicated that 
he had determined in discussion with key staff members their general 
agreement with this approach, and invited any comments or questions the 
Board members might have on the matter. 
After discussion, the Board gave its approval to the reorgani-
zation as proposed and to the changes in official title called for in 
connection therewith, effective November 7, 1973. 
(A copy of the 
announcement distributed to the Board's staff is attached as Item No. 4. 
Mr. Holland indicated that any salary adjustments called for by these 
changes in assignments would be folded into the annual salary changes 
to be proposed in a few weeks. 
The following persons then entered the room: 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 

A g>C i\ 
1 
' 
11/1/73 
- 5 -
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Kudlinski, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Hackley, Consultant to the Board 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Congressional testimony. Governor Holland was scheduled to 
appear on November 7, 1973, before the Subcommittee on Financial 
Institutions of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban 
Affairs in connection with the proposed Financial Institutions Act 
of 1973. A draft statement had been distributed. Discussion included 
a number of suggestions regarding approach and emphasis. At the 
conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the statement 
would be revised in the light of comments made and would be presented 
in a final form satisfactory to Governor Holland. A copy of the 
statement as presented before the Subcommittee has been placed in the 
Board's files. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
by Farmer City Agency, Inc., Farmer City, Illinois, to acquire additional 
shares of National Bank of Chenoa, Chenoa, Illinois, and authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting that decision. Copies of the order and 
of the letter sent to the applicant are attached as Items 5 and 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Barnett Banks 
of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, to acquire shares of First Bank 

* i 
L1 
11/1/73 
- 6 -
of Plantation, Plantation; Florida; University Bank, Broward County, 
Florida; and Riverland Bank, Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The Board 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of 
which is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Liberty 
National Corporation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, to retain shares of 
Liberty Financial Corporation and thereby to retain indirectly shares 
of Liberty Mortgage Company, both of Oklahoma City, on the condition 
that the real estate development activity of Liberty Financial be 
terminated by December 31, 1974. The Board authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Alpha Agency, 
Inc., and Pierce Agency, Inc., both of Aztec, New Mexico, to retain 
shares of The Citizens Bank, Farmington, New Mexico. The Board authorized 
issuance of an order reflecting this decision, a copy of which is 
attached as Item No. 9. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Irwin Union 
Corporation, Columbus, Indiana, to acquire shares of a de novo company, 
Irwin Union Credit Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, through which 
applicant would engage in underwriting credit life and credit accident 
and health insurance. 
Irwin Union Credit Insurance Company's proposed 
activities included the underwriting of joint credit life insurance 
where both of the insured parties would be co-makers of the note but 
would not necessarily have separate incomes. 
It was understood that 

<t: 
b /V-
11/1/73 
- 7 -
documents to implement this decision would be prepared for the Board's 
consideration. 
The Board unanimously determined that a bank holding company, 
under the provisions of the Bank Holding Company Act, may not engage 
in the activity of making loans for its own account, without securing 
prior approval from the Board. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, which had made inquiry on behalf of a 
bank holding company in its District, is attached as Item No. 1Q. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of American 
Trust and Savings Bank, Dubuque, Iowa, to issue capital notes. A copy 
of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 11. 
The Board unanimously denied requests by protestants in connection 
with the application of Charter New York Corporation, New York, New York, 
to acquire shares of the successor by merger to The First National Bank 
of Glen Head, Glen Head, New York. A copy of the letter sent to counsel 
for the protestants is attached as Item No. 12. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to the Senate Committee 
on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs giving the Board's views on S. 1895, 
a bill to regulate which State may escheat or take custody of certain 
intangible abandoned property. A copy of the letter is attached as 
Item No. 13. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Union Bancorp. In a memorandum of October 25, 19 73, the Division 
of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision and Regulation 

o 
Ht/Ol; IS 
11/1/73 
- 8 -
recommended unconditional approval of the applications of Union Bancorp, 
Inc., Los Angeles, California, to become a bank holding company through 
acquisition of shares of Union Bank, and to acquire shares of Unionamerica 
Computer Corporation and of Unionamerica Leasing Corporation, all of 
Los Angeles. 
These applications were part of a corporate reorganization 
in connection with the plan of Unionamerica, Inc., to cease to be a 
bank holding company. With a memorandum of October 30, 1973, the Legal 
Division submitted a draft letter that it recommended be sent to the 
applicant regarding the relationships of the several firms involved in 
the reorganization under the Bank Holding Company Act and under the 
affiliate provisions of the Banking Act of 1933. 
Today's discussion evidenced concern regarding possible inter-
locking director relationships after the reorganization had been 
accomplished. 
Discussion developed agreement that the one remaining 
interlocking director relationship should be terminated as soon as 
practicable, but not later than January 1, 1977. 
With this condition, the Board unanimously approved the appli-
cations and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. 
Copies of the order and of the letter sent to the applicant are attached 
as Items 14 and 15. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened at 2:15 p.m. in the 
Special Library, with Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, Bucher, and Holland present and the following staff members 
in attendance: 

11/1/73 
- 9 -
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary-
Mr, Allison, Assistant Secretary-
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Chase, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Eckert, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Timenes, Economist, Board Members' Offices 
Mr. Ryan, Supervisory Review Examiner, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Capital adequacy. Earlier this year the Board had requested 
the views of the Federal Advisory Council on the question of bank 
capital adequacy. At its joint meeting with the Board tomorrow, the 
Council was expected to comment in supplementation of two memoranda 
it had submitted dated October 12, 1973, one entitled "Answers to 
Questions Posed by Mr. Leavitt in His July 10, 19 73, Letter to Mr. Dorrance 
Concerning Bank Capital," and the other entitled "Examples of Completion 
of the Federal Advisory Council's Proposed Form for Analyzing Bank 
Capital." 
At today's meeting, the staff summarized the history of the 
bank capital problem and the issues involved, and commented on the 
findings in the Federal Advisory Council memoranda. 
Comments were made 

11/1/73 
-10-
also on a study entitled "Bank Capital Adequacy," by George Vojta, 
of the staff of First National City Bank, New York, New York. 
During 
the ensuing discussion, the staff was requested to consider the extent 
to which various kinds of debt instruments should be regarded as part 
of a bank's capital structure. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B D A R D • F 
G D V E R N D R S 
OF" 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Item No. 1 
11/1/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C U N R R S F D N O E N C E 
T D T H E O O A R D 
N o v e m b e r 1, 1973 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
Mr. Frank E. Morris 
President 
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston 
Boston, Massachusetts 
02106 
Dear Mr. Morris: 
The Board of Governors acted today to disapprove the 
pending reduction in your Bank's discount rate from 7 - 1 / 2 to 
7 - 1 / 4 per cent voted by your board of directors at their meeting 
on October 29. 
The Board's examination of the current economic 
situation does not lead it to the conclusion that the economy is 
moving in a direction that would call for a reduction in the discount 
rate at this moment. 
The Board continues to feel that a reduction 
at this time might be interpreted as an overt signal of significant 
easing in monetary policy and have undesirable repercussions on 
market expectations and over-all inflationary psychology. 
The 
Board also notes that short-term Treasury bill rates have risen 
recently and are close to the current discount rate, while other 
short-term rates remain well above 7 - 1 / 2 per cent. 
The members of the Board have asked me to express 
th eir appreciation for the views communicated by your Bank's 
directors in taking their action to reduce the discount rate. 
Yours sincerely 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
s 

D O A R D OF G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
11/1/73 
ice Corres 
l e o c e 
To 
From. 
Federal Reserve Banks 
JSLoxmaaicLJie xnaxcL 
/ 
Date 
N o v e m b e r 
on N nv-cmb cx_ L, L9Z3 
I 
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL (FR) 
The Board voted today to disapprove a pending action by 
one Reserve Bank to reduce the discount rate from 7 - 1 / 2 to 7 - 1 / 4 
per cent. 
The substance of a letter outlining the Board's reasons 
for its decision follows: 
The Board's examination of the current economic 
situation does not lead it to the conclusion that 
the economy is moving in a direction that would 
call for a reduction in the discount rate at this 
moment. 
The Board continues to feel that a 
reduction at this time might be interpreted as 
an overt signal of significant easing in monetary 
policy and have undesirable repercussions on 
market expectations and over-all inflationary 
psychology. 
The Board also notes that short-
term Treasury bill rates have risen recently 
and are close to the current discount rate, 
while other short-term rates remain well above 
7 - 1 / 2 per cent. 

n D A R D OF GOVERNORS 
or VMS: 
F E D E R A L R E S u RVE S3YST EM 
v. 
? f 
i> 
Y"*, e*r'•"-"i W o v i 
<-
w 
^ A i t t 
V V i /i iJo 
subjects 
42 . 
Item No. 3 
11/1/73 
ate,.August 22 v 19 
STRICTLY CONEIDENTTAL CFR<) 
* 
i s a recommendation for changes in the organisation 
of the Board staff following on my appointment to the Board of 
Governors. 
In part it is a recognition of what appears to have 
peen developing naturally under my service as Executive Director. 
In part, too. it is a further development of program management, 
in recognition of the many interdepartmental activities and special 
projects necessitated by the nature of the Board's work. 
The proposed organization is two-dimensional — 
program-
oriented along the vertical, departmental along the base. "This summary 
description does not cover all staff relationships and functions: 
but X believe that it 
does provide a framework for orderly and effective 
operations. 
A. Along the program dimension, the proposal calls 
for the establishment of two Managing Directors, replacing the present 
Office of the Executive Director ~~ a Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision and a Managing Director for Research and Economic 
Policy. 
1. 
The Managing Director for Operations and Supervision 
would be responsible for the planning and coordination of programs 
in the following general areas: 
(a) Personnel related ~ 
Recruitment policies and procedures 
Employee training and development 
Wage and salary administration ' 
Employee services 
System personnel matters 
Employee benefits . 
(b) Board budgetary and accounting activities -
Program analysis and budgeting 
Financc and accounting 
v 
Sys tenis improvement 

Ghairman Burns 
•1209 
(c) Board building and housekeeping -
Special Project: Martin Building construction 
Special Project: Board Building renovation 
(d) Data processing activities -
Systems design 
Information services 
(e) Supervision and regulation -
• Banking structure program case work 
Bank mergers case work 
Foreign banking case work 
Member bank supervisory activities 
Truth in lending 
(£) Equal Employment Opportunity Program 
(g) Planning for contingent operations 
(h) Liaison and coordination of the Reserve 
Bank program activities 
(i) Federal Reserve Bank operations--
Member and nonmember bank relations 
Reserve Bank lending 
Payments mechanism 
Co ns txu ctx on p1annin3 
Reserve Bank supervision 
Other Reserve Bank services 
2 . 
The Managing Director for Research and Economic 
Policy would be responsible for the planning and coordination of 
programs in the following general areas: 
(a) Federal Open Market Committee staff activities 
(b) Domestic research activities -
Economic developments 
Financial analysis 
Projections of economic and financial activity 
Business and financial structure 
(c) Research in international finance -
' \ 
Analysis of balance of payments developments 
International financial relationships 
Foreign currency operations 
(d) Securities credit regulation 

4210 
Chairman Burns 
(e) Regulatory philosophy regarding banking, in-
cluding domestic and international banking 
; 
atructure 
(f) Monetary policy planning and formulation 
Open market, operations 
Reserve requirements 
Discount rates 
Regulation Q 
(c) Inter-agency activities involving analysis, 
planning and coordination of economic policies 
3. On the program dimension, the two Managing Directors would 
report directly to the Board or to Governors to whom relevant areas of 
responsibility have been delegated. 
For example, matters involving the 
VFC.R program would be reported to Governor Brimmer; many Reserve Bank 
matters would be taken up with Governor Sheehan; activities in the various 
personnel programs and on budget questions would be within my purview. 
B. On the departmental, dimension of the organization, I would pro-
pose the. following line of authority and responsibility: 
1, The Managing Director for Operations and Supervision would 
report to the Board (or its designated Governor for Administration) and 
would have general supervision over the Division of Administrative 
Services, Office of the Controller, Division of Data Processing, and 
D i vj.sion of Personne 1. 
2. The Managing Director for Research and Economic Policy would 
report to the Board and would have direct responsibility for the activities 
of the Federal Open Market Committee Staff. 
3. 
Subject to the program coordination outlined above, the 
Divisions of Research and Statistics, International Finance, Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations, Supervision and Regulation, and Legal as well 
as the Office of Board Members and the Office of the Secretary would 
report directly to the Board on all substantive matters. 
A. -O'erall administrative and budgetary policies for all these 
Divisions would be my responsibility as the Governor with delegated internal 
administrative responsibilities. 
The authority for implementation of 
those policies 1 would share with the Managing Director for Operations and 
Supervision, and I would expect him and his Deputy to attend to most day-
to-day administrative matters under my authorisation and supervision. 

Chairman. Burns 
-A-
4211 
To further illustrate the. organizational structure herein describedy 
there is attached an official staff listing as it might appear in the back 
the Federal Reserve Bu1let in. The changes in officers' titles contem-
plated under this proposal are as follows: 
NAME 
• Charles Par tee 
David C. Me In ic off 
Daniel M. Doyle 
S. H. Axilrod 
A. L. Brcida 
Murray Alt-nana 
Lyie Gramley 
James Pierce 
FROM 
Adviser to the Board 
Deputy Executive 
Director 
Deputy I)irector for 
Management 
Associate Director, 
Research c« Statistics 
A s s i s t a n t S e c. r e t a r y 
Ass?scant Secretary 
Associate Director 
Adviser 
TO 
Managing Director for 
Research t< Economic 
Policy (REP) 
Managing Director for 
0pe ra t ions &. Super-
vision (OS) 
Deputy Managing Director (OS 
In the Office of Managing 
Director (REP); 
Adviser to the. Board 
Assistant to the Board 
Special Assistant to the 
Board 
In the Division of Research 
& Statistics: 
Deputy Director 
Associate Director 
anient 
i 
/ 

B O A R D O f G O V E R N O R S 
V'v" ' > I 
OFTHC 
,tO 'I *> 
•7' * >" 
/ .\V 
F E D E R A L R E S E R VE BY 5 T E M 
I'.1 • 
'••*/"* 
WASHINGTON, O. C 20551 
Item NO . 
iiWiffll 
.^(v 'Ji! 
11/1/73 
*. 
•' 
HODfiRT C. HOU* N U 
• .'Mi. 
• • 
••«..•»" 
HEKBEfl DP THE I'tD^R Q 
November 7, 1973 
TO ALL MEMBERS Of THE BOARD'S STAFF 
The Board is announcing a major reorganization of its staff 
management functions, effective today. 
The Board's action establishes 
two positions of Managing Director, one responsible for research and 
economic policy and the other responsible for operations and supervision. 
These Offices will replace the present Office of the Executive Director. 
The Office of Managing Director for Research and Economic Policy 
will be headed by J, CHARLES PARTEE as Managing Director. 
He will retain 
his previous position as Director of the Board's Division of Research and 
Statistics. 
The Office of Managing Director for Operations and Supervision 
will be headed by DAVID C. KELNICOFF as Managing Director. 
He had pre-
viously boon Deputy Executive Director of the Board, 
The Managing Director for Research and Economic Policy is re-
sponsible lor the planning and coordination of programs in the fo3lowing 
general areas: 
Monetary policy planning and formation, domestic research 
activities, research in international finance, securities credit regu-
lation, Federal Open Market Committee staff activities, regulatory philoso-
phy regarding banking (including domestic and international banking 
structure), and inter-agency activities involving the analysis, planning 
and coordination of economic policies. 
The Managing Director for Operations and Supervision will be 
responsible for the planning and coordination of programs in the following 
general areas: 
Personnel-related activities, Board budget and accounting ac-
tivities, Board building and administrative services, data processing, 
supervision and regulation, equal employment opportunity, contingent 
operations, Federal Reserve Bank operations and liaison and coordination 
Reserve Bank activities. 

4213 
Both Managing Directors will report directly to the Board or to 
Governors responsible for specified programs such as the Voluntary Foreign 
Credit Restraint Program or Federal Reserve Bank activities. 
The Managing 
Director for Operations and Supervision will have general supervision over 
the Divisions of Administrative Services, Office of the Controller, Division 
of Data Processing, and Division of Personnel. 
Hie Divisions of Research and Statistics, International Finance, 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations, Supervision and Regulation, Legal, Office 
of Board Members and Office of the Secretary will report directly to the 
Board on all substantive matters. 
Overall administrative and budget policies for all Divisions 
will remain the responsibility of Governor Holland as the Governor with 
delegated administrative responsibility. 
Mr, Par tee was appointed to the Board staff in January, 1962, and 
served as Associate Director of the Division of Research and Statistics 
prior to his appointment as Division Director in June, 1969. Before 1962, 
lie was a Second Vice President and Associate Economist of the Northern 
Trust Company of Chicago and, before that, was an Economist on the staff 
.of the Federal Reserve 'Bank of Chicago. 
Mr. Par tec. 46, holds degrees 
from Indiana Universitv and has done additional 
graduate work in finance 
at the University of Chicago. At present, Mr. Partee also serves as a 
member of the Board of Directors of the Securities Investor Protection 
Corporati on, and is Vice.-Chai rman of the Committee on Financial Markets 
of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris. 
Mr. Melnicoff was named to the Board's staff in October of 1971 
as Deputy Executive Director. 
He had served previously as First Vice 
President of the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia. 
He first joined 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in 1946, and subsequently became 
Business Economist in the Department of Research. 
He left the Bank in 
1952 to join the Penn Fruit Company of Philadelphia and was later Business 
Economist for the Pennsylvania Railroad. 
In 1959, he joined Fels and 
Company of Philadelphia as Director of Planning and was named President 
in 1961t 
He returned to the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia in 1964 
and subsequently was appointed First Vice President. 
Mr. Melnicoff, 54, 
holds degrees from the University of Pennsylvania and has taught in the 
fields of economics and finance. 
The Board announced these other staff appointments to implement 
the changed designations in management functions: 
DANIEL M« DOYLE, from Deputy Director for Management to Deputy 
Managing Director for Operations and Supervision. 
Mr. Doyle, 44, former 

- 3 -
4214 
Senior Vice President in charge of the Detroit Branch of the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Chicago, was appointed to the Board's staff last August 15. lie 
had been with the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago since 1956, serving as 
Vice President in charge of Personnel before his appointment to the Detroit 
Branch in 1969. lie holds a B.A. degree from the University of Illinois 
and has completed the Stonier Graduate School of Banking, Rutgers Univer-
sity. 
STEPHEN H. AXILROD, from Associate Director, Research and Statis-
tics, to Adviser to the Board in the Office of Managing Director for 
Research and Economic Policy. 
Mr. Axilrod who holds a B.A. degree from 
Harvard University, and an K.A. and additional graduate training from the 
University of Chicago, joined the Board's staff in 1952. He was appointed 
to the official staff in 1965 as an Associate Adviser and in 1963 was 
made an Adviser in the Division of Research and Statistics. 
Mr. Axilrod, 
who is 47, was promoted to Associate Director of the Division in May 1969. 
LYLE E. GRAMLEY, from Associate Director to Deputy Director in 
the Division of Research and Statistics. 
Mr. Cramley received his B.A. 
degree from Beloit College and his M.A. and Ph.D. from Indiana University. 
Prior to joining the Board's staff in 1964, Mr. Gramley was a Financial 
Economist'at the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City and also served as 
an Associate Professor of Economics at the University of Maryland. 
In 
1965, Mr. Cramley was appointed as Associate Adviser; in 19o8, an Ad-
viser and in May of 1969, he was promoted to Associate Director of the 
Division of Research and Statistics, 
lie is 46. 
AKTHUll L. BIIOIDA, from Assistant Secretary, to Assistant to the 
Board in the Office of Managing Director for Research and Economic Policy. 
Mr, Broida joined the Board's staff as an Economist in 194/, and has 
served in the Business Conditions, Consumer Credit and Finance, and 
Government Finance Sections of the Division of Research and Statistics. 
In 1962; he became Chief of the Consumer Credit and Finance Section of the 
Division, and was appointed an Assistant Secretary of the Board in 
September 1963. 
Mr. Broida, 54, received his B.A. degree and Ph.D. in 
Economics from the University cf Chicago, 
JAMES PIERCE, from Adviser to Associate Director in the Division 
of Research and Statistics. 
Mr. Pierce joined the Board's staff in 1965 
as an Economist in the Division of Research and Statistics. 
He has 
served as a Senior Economist and Chief of the Special Studies Section, and 
in 1970 was appointed an Assistant Adviser in the Division of Research 
and Statistics. 
In January 1971, he was promoted to Associate Adviser^ 
and in January 1972 to Adviser in that Division. 
Mr. Pierce, 36, received 
his Ph.D. degree in Economics from the University of California at 
Berkeley. 
Prior to his appointment: to the Board's staff, he was an 
Assistant Professor of Economics at Yale University and a staff member 
of the Cowlcs Foundation for Research in Economics. 

4215 
MURRAY ALTMANN, from Assistant Secretary, to Special Assistant 
to the Board in the Office of Managing Director for Research and Economic 
Policyt 
Mr. Altmann was appointed to the Board's staff in 1949 in the 
Division of Research and Statistics and has served as a Senior Economist 
in that Division. 
In 1967 he was granted a leave of absence to act as 
Economic Adviser and to organize and direct a department of research for 
the Central Bank of Tanzania. Upon his return from Tanzania in 1968, Mr. 
Altmann was named a Senior Economist in the Division of International 
Finance. 
In July 1971, he was appointed an Assistant Secretary of the 
Board. 
Mr'.* Altmann, 49, holds B.A, and M.A. degrees from Pennsylvania 
State Un1vcr s ity» 
Robert C. Holland 

•42 
Item No. 
11/1/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FARMER CITY AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Farmer City Agency, Inc., Farmer City, Illinois, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire an additional 6.27 per cent of the voting 
1/ 
shares of National Bank of Chenoa, Chenoa, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. 
The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and none has been timely received. 
The Board has considered 
the application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 41 per cent of the shares of its only 
Present subsidiary bank, Farmer City State Bank, Farmer City, Illinois, 
with deposits of $12.8 million, representing less than 1 per cent of 
commercial bank deposits in Illinois. 
(All banking data are as of Decem-
ber 31, 1972.) The acquisition of shares of Bank would not affect the 
concentration of banking resources in the State. Applicant conducts an 
insurance agency business in Farmer City (population of less than 5,000) 
and deals almost exclusively in the sale of insurance that is directly 
r^lated to the extension of credit by Applicant's subsidiary bank. 
i / Applicant presently owns 4.9 per cent of the voting shares of Bank. 
Officers of Applicant own 45.9 per cent of Bank in their individual 
Opacities and this application represents a transfer to corporate 
°wnership of a portion of this individual ownership. 

4217 
-2-
Bank ($9.8 million of deposits), established in June, 1950, 
has no branches and is the only bank in the town of Chenoa. Bank is the 
fifth largest of eleven banks competing in its market area (approximated 
bY the northern quarter of McLean County and the southern quarter of 
Livingston County) and controls 8.2 per cent of the deposits in commercial 
banks in the market. Applicant's present subsidiary is located about 40 
miles from Bank, in a separate banking market, and there is no meaningful 
Present competition between the two institutions. 
Furthermore, it appears 
unlikely that any significant competition would develop in the future due 
t o Illinois' restrictive branching law and the distances separating the 
banking offices. The Board concludes that, even If this were a proposal 
to acquire a controlling interest in Bank, consummation of the proposal 
would not have any adverse competitive effects. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
°f Bank, and of Applicant and its subsidiary bank, are regarded as 
satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application. 
Since 
Applicant views its 11.2 per cent ownership of Bank as an investment only, 
n o changes in services or facilities are proposed. Considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the community to be served are consistent 
with approval. 
It is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction 
would be consistent with the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 

4^18 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective November 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2J Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

f I r r! • 
A * > | < i 
B O A R D 
D F G D V E R N U R S 
' 
• r i H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/1/73' 
6 
VVAGHIK'G I O?;, 
O. 
C . 
205'JI 
A n OS r u t ! C F N C IAL C TI r; HC. R, P O M OE M C; E 
TO lilt I.UAMI) 
November X, 1973 
AIR MAIL - 11) LISTER"]) 
'RETURN RECrgri P.F.t eFSTFD 
Farmer City Agency, Inc. 
F« 0. 
fiox 200 
333 S o u M a i n Street 
Farmer City, Illinois 
618M 2 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the application by Farmer City Agency, Inc., J- 
prior 
approval of the eceuiai'ion of 6,27 per cent of the voting shares 
of National Bank of Chcrioa> Chenoa> Illinois (''Bank'1) . 
In cornier lion v7.Li.-li the application. the hoard has made a 
preliRrj.nary extermination, pursuant to section 22:.), 2(b) (2) of Regula-
tion Y, that Farmer City Agency controls Vatica'1 Bank of Chenoa. 
In.is dcterminrtion is bared upon the fact: thrt F a r m C i t y ' s control 
of more than 5 per cent of the. voting shares of Bank and the additional 
voting stock of Bank owned or controlled by individuals who are directors 
and/or officers of Fanner City, together aggregate more than 25 per-
cent of the outstanding voting shares of Bank. 
Farmer City Agency, Inc. should report Bank as a subsidiary 
on all future applications, annual reports, etc.; or, within 30 days, 
set forth such facts and circumstances as may support a contention 
that there is not a control relationship, or comply with one of the 
other alternatives specified in section 225.2(c) of Regulation Y. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 

4220 
Farmer City Agency, Inc. 
In connection with the provisions of I:re Board's Order 
relating to the time within which the action herein 
proved is 
to be consummated> advice of the fact of consummation should be 
given in writing to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldbe"g 
. - 
Secretary of the 
arc! 
En closures; 1. Prrsn Release 
2. Order 
. 

Item No. 7 
11/1/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
BARNETT BANKS OF FLORIDA, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Barnett Banks of Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares 
°f First Bank of Plantation, Plantation, Florida; University Bank, 
Broward County, Florida; and Riverland Bank, Fort Lauderdale, Florida 
("Subject Banks"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the applications and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 46 banks with total deposits of $1.5 billion, 
representing approximately 7.6 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
banks in the State, and is the second largest banking organization in 
Florida. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1973, and reflect 
holding company acquisitions approved as of October 15, 1973, unless other-
wise indicated.) The acquisition of Subject Banks (with total deposits 
o f $45.5 million) would increase Applicant's share of the total State 
deposits by only 0.2 per cent, and it would remain the second largest 
banking organization in Florida. 

* t 
-2-
Subject Banks include two established banks and a newly opened 
bank, all in the North Broward County banking market, which consists of 
the area from Fort Lauderdale to and including Deerfield Beach, Florida. 
Together Subject Banks control 3.2 per cent of the total market deposits 
and rank seventh of 23 banking organizations in the market. 
(All market 
share data are as of December 31, 1972.) Since Subject Banks are closely 
affiliated through common directors, common senior management, and common 
stockholders, the proposed acquisition is not likely to eliminate any 
existing competition or foreclose potential competition between these three 
banks in the reasonably near future. 
Applicant has one subsidiary, Barnett Bank of Fort Lauderdale 
("Barnett Bank"), in the North Broward market. Barnett Bank has deposits of 
$27 million representing 2.0 per cent of market deposits and ranks tenth of 
the 23 banking organizations in the market. As a result of this proposed 
acquisition, Applicant will control 5.2 per cent of market deposits 
and rank seventh of 22 banking organizations in the market. Applicant 
will not gain a dominant position in the market which includes five of 
Florida's ten largest bank holding companies. Although this proposed 
acquisition will eliminate some existing competition between Barnett Bank 
and Subject Banks, the amount eliminated is deemed insignificant. No 
overlap exists between the service area of Barnett Bank, located in down-
town Fort Lauderdale, and that of Subject Banks, all located in suburban 
areas west of Fort Lauderdale. 
Approval of this proposed acquisition would remove the possi-
bility of future competition developing between Barnett Bank and 

Subject Banks. The possible adverse effect on potential future competition 
does not appear significant in view of the small size of Barnett Bank and 
Subject Banks, the presence of a large number of competing banks, the 
predicted strong growth of Broward County, and the number of remaining 
independent banks and pending de novo applications. The Board concludes 
that consummation of the proposed acquisition would have only slightly 
adverse competitive effects. 
Applicant has recently injected capital into certain of its 
subsidiary banks and has increased its equity capital by converting 
debentures to common stock. It has also completed a public stock offering. 
Applicant, therefore, has the capability and stands ready to inject 
additional capital into Subject Banks should it prove necessary. 
In 
light of these actions, the Board finds the financial condition and 
managerial resources of the Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Subject 
Banks to be satisfactory; and prospects for each are favorable. 
There is no evidence that the banks in the market are failing 
to meet the banking needs of the community, but affiliation with Applicant 
should provide Subject Banks with the ability to become more aggressive 
lenders and compete for larger commercial and real estate loans. 
In 
the rapidly growing Broward County area, such greater lending ability will 
have positive public benefits. In addition, Applicant will assist Subject 
Banks in providing trust services. Accordingly, considerations relating 
to convenience and needs of the communities to be. served lend weight for 

W Z 4 
-4-
approval and outweigh the slightly adverse competitive effects of the 
acquisition. 
It is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed 
acquisition would be in the public interest and the applications should 
be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective November 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
U Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

4225 
Item No. 8 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/1/73 
LIBERTY NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Retention of Liberty Financial 
Corporation and Liberty Mortgage Company 
Liberty National Corporation, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
applied for the Board!s approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
§ 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to retain all of the voting 
shares of Liberty Financial Corporation ("Liberty Financial"), a wholly-
owned subsidiary of Applicant, which in turn 
owns all the shares of 
Liberty Mortgage Company ("Liberty Mortgage"), both located in Oklahoma 
City, Oklahoma.U 
Liberty Financial would engage directly in the activities of 
Purchasing real estate loans from Applicant's banking subsidiary and 
originating and servicing real estate oriented loans, including interim 
financing of commercial, industrial, and residential projects for its own 
account. Through its ownership of Liberty Mortgage, Liberty Financial 
1/ On December 21, 1971, Liberty Financial acquired from Applicant1s bank-
ing subsidiary all of the outstanding shares of Home Mortgage & Investment 
Company (now Liberty Mortgage). At the same time, Liberty Real Estate Com-
pany, a company engaged in land development activities and Liberty Property 
Management Company,a property management company, were also acquired by 
Liberty Financial. 
(Liberty Property Management has since been transferred 
back to Applicant's banking subsidiary.) The shares of Home Mortgage & 
Investment Company were originally acquired by Applicant's banking sub-
sidiary on March 11, 1971, in accordance with section 4(c)(5) of the Act. 
Applicant undertook the December 21, 1971, transactions in the mistaken belief 
that neither the Act nor Regulation Y required prior approval of such internal 
reorganizations. 

4226 
-2-
indirectly engages in the activities of orginating, selling, and 
servicing real estate mortgages on residential and commercial property 
under agreement with various institutional lenders and offering to 
persons whose loans are being serviced by Liberty Mortgage, decreasing 
term life insurance and disability insurance for both of which the 
mortgagee is a beneficiary. 
Such activities have been determined by 
the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)(3), 
and (9)). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors has 
been duly published (37 Federal Register 26848). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired and none has been timely received. 
Applicant seeks permission through these applications to 
operate Liberty Mortgage under the broader authority contained in 
section 4(c)(8) of the Act which would permit Liberty Mortgage to make 
loans at places other than the premises of Applicant's subsidiary bank. 
The Board regards the standards of section 4(c)(8) for the 
retention of shares in a nonbanking company, previously operated by a 
bank holding company pursuant to section 4(c)(5), to be the same as the 
standards for a proposed section 4(c)(8) acquisition. Accordingly, the 
Board must find that the acquisition of the nonbanking company was 
not one that would result in an undue concentration of resources, decreased 
or unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, or unsound banking practices. 

4J£27 
-3-
Applicant controls one banking subsidiary, Liberty National 
Bank and Trust Company, Oklahoma City ("Liberty Bank"), with deposits 
approximately $581 million, representing 7.8 per cent of the com-
mercial bank deposits in Oklahoma, and is the largest banking organiza-
tion and bank holding company in the S t a t e . L i b e r t y Bank is engaged 
l n mQking mortgage loans for its own account. About 96 per cent of 
Liberty Bank's mortgage loans during 1970 and 1971 are construction loans. 
During 1971, Liberty Bank originated 7.4 per cent of all real estate 
mortgages in Oklahoma County, where its subsidiary, Liberty Mortgage, 
also operates. 
Liberty Mortgage's loan originations were primarily loans on 
l-to-4 family residences. 
It accounted for 1.3 per cent of all mortgage 
loan originations during 1971 in Oklahoma County. In the four other 
Oklahoma counties in which Liberty Mortgage operated it was not a very 
significant competitor. As of June 30, 1971, Libery Mortgage was the 
169th largest mortgage company in the country, based on a servicing 
volume of $122 million. 
Its mortgage servicing portfolio has increased 
by $63 million since it ceased operating as an independent mortgage company. 
The major area affected by the acquisition is Oklahoma City 
Qrid its environs, the economic center of Oklahoma and the largest city 
the State. At the time of the acquisition and thereafter, the economy 
the area was expanding with an attendant rise in housing demand and 
Sfowth. Applicant would appear to have been a possible de novo entrant 
y All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
ePtember 30, 1973. 

-4-
4 ^ 8 
into the mortgage banking business conducted by Liberty Mortgage absent 
Board permission to retain that company. However, considering the 
number of mortgage banking competitors already in the market, removal 
of Applicant as a de novo entrant would have only slightly adverse effects 
on competition. Furthermore, due to the nature of Liberty Bank's mortgage 
banking business and that of Liberty Mortgage, no significant existing com-
petition was eliminated. Whatever slight anticompetitive effects might 
have resulted from approval, these are outweighed" by the public benefits 
which appear to result from Applicant's retention of Liberty Mortgage. 
Affiliation would provide greater access to financial markets for Liberty 
Mortgage and thereby increase its amount of available funds to meet the 
growing credit demands for housing and other construction in the Oklahoma 
City area. The Board concludes that the potential public benefits out-
weighed the slight adverse effect resulting from the affiliation at the 
time of the acquisition. 
The Board's review of the record of the affiliation indicates 
that the potential benefits have continued to outweigh such adverse effects. 
Through Applicant's support, Liberty Mortgage has increased its servicing 
volume to nearly $185 million by year-end 1972. The Board believes that 
the affiliation is sufficiently likely to continue to produce public 
benefits in the foreseeable future so that, on balance, divestiture 
would be contrary to the public interest. 
Liberty Mortgage also sells decreasing term life insurance 
and disability insurance directly related to the loans it originates. 
Bue to the limited nature of its insurance activities, it does not appear 
that the acquisition of Liberty Mortgage's insurance activities had any 
Significant effect on either existing or potential competition. 

-5-
As part of its plan to centralize in Liberty Financial the 
real estate operations of its subsidiaries, Applicant also seeks Board 
permission to allow Liberty Financial to, in effect, carry on the com-
mercial mortgage lending activities of Liberty Bank. Since this transaction 
involves only an internal corporate reorganization, consummation of the 
Proposal will have no adverse effects on existing or potential competition, 
it is expected that economies in management and operations will result 
from such a reorganization and enable Applicant and Liberty Financial 
to become more effective competitors. Further, the transfer of such 
activities, although a profit making center, would not have an adverse 
effect on the financial condition or operations of Bank. 
There is no evidence in the record to indicate that the proposed 
retentions would lead to an undue concentration of resources, conflicts 
°f interest, or unsound banking practices. 
Liberty Financial through Liberty Real Estate Company, has been 
engaged over a period of years in developing real estate acquired in 
connection with loans previously contracted. The Board has determined 
that land development is not a permissible activity for bank holding 
companies (12 CFR 225.126) and a review of the development activities 
of Liberty Financial would indicate that Applicant may have exceeded 
the permissible bounds of activity necessary to minimize its losses 
with respect to such properties. Applicant has represented to the Board 
that it will no longer engage in further real estate development projects 
Of 
A 
y nature and is attempting to terminate its interests in the real 
estate projects in which it has inveot-od; imch efforts axe exacted to 

4230 
-6-
be terminated by the end of 1974. In acting on this application, the 
Board believes it appropriate to condition its approval on such under-
standing. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
is favorable. Accordingly, the applications are hereby approved on 
the condition that the real estate development activity of Liberty 
Financial be terminated as soon as possible and in no event later than 
December 31, 1974. This determination is also subject to the conditions 
set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y. Additionally, this determination 
is subject to the Board's authority to require such modification or 
termination of the activities of a holding company or any of its sub-
sidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with the 
provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations and 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective November 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
?J Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, Bucher, and Holland. 
Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

4231 
Item No. 9 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/1/73 
ALPHA AGENCY, INC. AND PIERCE AGENCY, INC. 
Order Approving Retention of Voting Shares of Bank 
Alpha Agency, Inc. and Pierce Agency, Inc., both of Aztec, 
dew Mexico (hereinafter sometimes jointly referred to as "Applicant"), 
are bank holding companies within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
Company Act and have applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) 
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) for Pierce Agency, Inc. to retain 
an additional 13.97 per cent of the voting shares of The Citizens 
Bank, Farmington, New Mexico ("Bank"). Alpha Agency, Inc., which 
owns 64 per cent of Pierce Agency, Inc.'s outstanding voting shares, 
would retain indirect control of the additional voting shares of Bank 
sought to be retained by Pierce Agency, Inc. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and none has been timely received. The Board has considered 
the application in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Alpha Agency, Inc. and Pierce Agency, Inc. both became 
one-bank holding companies as a result of the 1970 Amendments to the 
Act due to Pierce Agency, Inc.'s ownership of 12,960 (28.80 per cent) 

of the voting shares of Bank. On March 1, 1971, Pierce Agency, Inc. 
purchased without prior Board approval an additional 6,550 
(14.56 per cent) of the voting shares of Bank from the estate of a 
Bank shareholder who had been adjudicated an incompetent by a court 
having lawful jurisdiction. 1/ Pierce Agency, Inc., paid a price of 
$35 per share for these additional shares, which purchase price had 
been suggested by an independent third party and had been approved 
by the court having jurisdiction over the estate of the incompetent 
Bank shareholder. As a result of this purchase of additional shares, 
Applicant increased its control of Bank from 12,960 (28.80 per cent) 
to 19,510 (43.36 per cent) of the outstanding voting shares of Bank. 
Applicant now owns approximately 43 per cent of the outstanding voting 
shares of Bank and Applicant now seeks approval of the retention of 
the additional voting shares purchased on March 1, 1971. 
Bank has its main office in Farmington and branch offices 
in Aztec and Bloomfield, New Mexico. Bank holds $26 million of 
deposits representing 37.58 per cent of total commercial bank deposits 
1/ Pierce Agency, Inc., which registered as a bank holding company 
in accordance with § 5(a) of the Act on June 30, 1971, purchased the 
additional voting shares of Bank sought to be retained herein on 
March 1, 1971, without Board approval as required under § 3(a)(3) 
°f the Act. The Board has reviewed the circumstances of that acquisition 
and determined that such action was not in willful violation of the 
Bank Holding Company Act. As a result of subsequent sales of some of 
these voting shares acquired on March 1, 1971, the shares sought to be 
retained herein by Pierce Agency, Inc. now constitute 13.97 per cent 
°f the outstanding voting shares of Bank. 

4233 
-3-
in the San Juan County banking market and 1.2 per cent of total commercial 
bank deposits in the State.2J 
Applicant's retention of the additional 
shares acquired on March 1, 1971, would have no significant effect 
on competition or the concentration of banking resources in any relevant 
area and would serve only to reinforce Applicant's previously existing 
control of Bank. Retention of the subject shares of Bank will have 
little or no effect upon Bank's ability to meet the convenience and 
needs of the communities it serves. The financial and managerial 
resources of Applicant and Bank are satisfactory, and future prospects 
of all appear favorable. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
retention is in the public interest and that the application should 
be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
for the reasons summarized above. 
By order of the Board of Governors,U effective November 1, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
2/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 
3/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Daane, Brimmer, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Sheehan. 

4234 
B O A R D • F 
G O V E R N O R S 
or THE 
Item No. 10 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
11/1/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D , 
C . 
2CD5I 
A O O R C O S 
D T F I C I A L 
C D R P C S P O N D T N C C 
TCJ T H E 
D D A R D 
November 2, 1973 
Sheldon L. Azine, Esq. 
Assistant Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55480 
Dear Mr. Azinc: 
This refers to your recent conversations with Mr. Maunion of 
the Board's Legal Division in which you request the Legal Division's 
views with respect to the permissibility, under section 4 of- the Bank 
Holding Company Act, of certain actions taken by a bank holding company 
in your District. 
Because of the nature of your inquiry and its appli-
cation generally to permissible activities of bank holding companies 
in other Federal Reserve Districts, the matter has been considered by the 
Board for the purpose of arriving at a uniform System position. 
For the purposes of the discussion herein, it is understood 
that the circumstances set forth hereinafter give rise to your inquiry. 
During the course of the. review of the 1972 Annual Report of a bank 
Holding company in the Ninth Federal Reserve District, it was discovered 
that, during a 15-month period, the company had directly extended credit 
on two occasions. 
In the first case, a loan in the amount of $285,000 
was made to two individuals and, in the other instance, a loan in the 
amount of $175,000 was made to one individual. 
You indicate that the 
ho3.di.ng company involved had not previously filed an application under 
§ 4(c)(8) of the Act to engage in the activity of making loans for its 
own account, an activity which is encompassed within § 225.4(a)(1) of the 
Board's Regulation Y. 
In view of the above facts, you inquire whether the 
waking of loans by a bank holding company without securing prior approval 
of the Board is permissible under the Act. 
The holding company takes the 
position that, the making of two loans over a 15-month period does not 
constitute an "activity" within the meaning of § 4 of the Act and, there-
fore, prior approval of the Board was not required. 
On the basis of the information.presented, the Board is of the 
view that a bank holding company may not, without securing approval under 
§ 4(c)(8) of the Act, engage in the activity of making loans for its own 
account. 
The nonbank activities of a bank holding company must be authorized 

Sheldon L. Azine, Esq. 
-2-
4235 
under some provision of § 4 of the Act. 
Inasmuch as the holding company 
m question has not received approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act: and none 
of the other provisions of § 4(c) appears applicable, the only possible 
authority for the holding company to engage in the business of making 
loans must be found in § 4(a)(2), which generally permits a bank holding 
company to engage in the activity of "banking or managing or controlling 
banks." The Board has previously taken the position that the term "bank-
ing 
is meant to cover the situation where a bank holding company is also 
a bank. Thus, unless the extensions of credit involved are permissible 
•as being related to "managing or controlling banks" (which we understand 
is not the case), there is no authority in § 4 of the Act for the holding 
company to make loans directly for its own account. 
In view of the above discussion, you may inform the holding 
company of the Board's position that the making of loans for its own 
account, unless shown to be part of the business of managing or con-
trolling banks, is not permissible without prior Board approval and, if the 
holding company intends to make such loans in the future, it should first 
•seek Board approval through the submission of a § 4(c)(8) application. 
1 ••• . • If you have any questions concerning this matter, you may 
contact Mr. Mannion in the Board's Legal Division. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

V o ^ o ^ V . 
B O A R D 
D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
11/1/73 . 
A D D R E S S 
o r r i c i A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
TLL T H E 
B O A R D 
November 1, 19 73 
Board of Directors 
American Trust and Savings Bank 
Dubuque, Iowa 
Gentlemen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $150,000 in 
subordinated capital notes by American Trust and Savings Bank, 
Dubuque, Iowa, in the form submitted to the Federa1 Reserve Bank 
of Chicago. 
This approval is given cm the condition that the 
capital notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity 
without the approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. 
Approval is 
granted with the understanding that the sale of the capital notes 
will be consummated within six months from the date of this letter. 
It is further understood that any advertising with respect to the 
obligations will, in addition to being in compliance with the pro-
visions of section 217.6 of Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the 
nature of the obligation from a deposit, including by setting forth 
in bold face type that the obligation is subordinated to the claims 
of depositors and not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance 
Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4^37 
B D A R D 
D F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F T H E 
Item No. 12 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
11/1/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E G P Q N O C N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
November 1, 1973 
REGISTERED 
^ETUmTliECEIPT REQUESTED 
Adam Walinsky, Esq. 
Kronish, Lieb, Shainswit, 
Weiner & He11man 
1345 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 
10019 
Dear Mr. Walinsky: 
This is in response to your telegram of October 25, 1973, 
m which you request the Board to inform Charter New York Corporation, 
New York, New York ("Applicant") that its application to acquire 100 
Per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying shares) of 
the successor by merger to The First National Bank of Glen Head, Glen 
Head, New York ("Bank"), will be denied unless the shareholders of 
Bank are resolicitcd with truthful proxy material and that the Board 
direct that the special meeting called for November 5, 1973, be post-
poned until there is adequate opportunity for the Bank shareholders 
to consider new and more accurate proxy material. 
You also request 
that the Board schedule at the earliest possible time a hearing under 
§ 2(a)(2)(C) of the Bank Holding Company Act for the purpose of deter-
mining that Applicant has since February 27, 1973, exercised a con-
trolling influence over the management and policies of Bank. 
The Board has determined not to grant the above requests 
at this time. 
With respect to the requests that the Board direct 
resolicitation of proxies and a delay in the shareholders meeting, 
under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, primary jurisdiction with 
.respect to the proxy solicitation and the shareholders meeting lies 
with the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Under the Bank Holding Company 
Act, the Board will consider the contentions of your clients as they 
relate to the financial and managerial resources of Applicant at such 
time as it acts upon the application. 
The Board will then approve, 
deny, or condition its approval of the application, as may be 
appropriate. 
With respect to your request that the Board institute a 
controlling influence hearing at this time on the basis of certain 
restrictions in the merger agreement, the Board has previously pro- ' 
vided that similar arrangements are permissible so long as they 

4 2 3 8 
Adam Walinsky, Esq. 
- 2 -
continue only as long as necessary to obtain the necessary regulatory 
approvals for the merger (§ 225.4(b)(iii) of the Board's Regulation Y 
and § 212.3(b) of the Board's Regulation L). The Board will not, there-
fore, exercise its discretion to bring such a proceeding so long as the 
relationships only continue pending the Board's decision on the-merger 
application. 
With respect to your request for a hearing on the application . 
in your written submission of October 23, 1973, this request is in the 
process of being reviewed by the Board's staff and will soon be submitted 
for consideration by the Board. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

4239 
CHAIRMAN O F THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
20551 
Item No. 13 
11/1/73 
November 1, 1973 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Chairman 
Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs 
United States Senate 
Washington, D. C, 
20510 
Dear Mr. Chairman: 
I am writing in response to your request for a report on 
S. 1895, a bill to regulate which State may escheat or take custody of 
certain intangible abandoned property. 
The Board recognizes that the 
bill is designed to resolve a long standing, and much litigated, ques-
tion as to which State (among several having contacts ,with a particular 
item of abandoned property, such as, money orders, travelers' checks, 
and similar instruments for the transmission of money) has the superior 
right to escheat proceeds from such property by means of its abandoned 
property or escheat laws. The problem has been highlighted by two 
recent decisions of the U. S. Supreme Court in Texas v. New Jersey, 
379 U.S. 674, 85 S. Ct. 62.6 (1965) and Pennsylvania v. New York, 407 
U.S. 206, 92 S. Ct. 2075 (1972), U.S. reh'den 409 U.S. 897, 93 S~. Ct. 
In the former case, the Court was presented with the question 
of which of several States was entitled to escheat intangible property 
consisting of debts owed by the Sun Oil Co. and left unclaimed by cred-
itors. 
In reaching its decision, the Court reasoned that 
" . . . since a debt is property of the creditor, 
not of the debtor, fairness among the States requires 
that the right and power to escheat the debt should 
be accorded to the State of the creditor's last known 
address as shown by the debtor's books and records. 
. . . Adoption of such a rule involves a factual issue 
simple and easy to resolve, and leaves no legal issue 
to be decided. . . . The rule . . . will tend to dis-
tribute escheats among the States in the proportion of 
the commercial activities of their residents. And by 
using a standard of last known address, rather than 
technical legal concepts of residence and domicile, 
91 (1972) 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page Two 
4210 
administration and application of escheat laws should 
be simplified t . , . We therefore hold that each item 
of property in question in this case is subject to es-
cheat only by the State of the last known address of 
the creditor, as shown by the debtor's books and 
records." 
M . , at 680-682 (footnotes omitted). 
The Court held further that if there is no record of a last known ad-
dress. or if the record indicates a State does not provide for escheat 
of intangibles, then the State of the debtor's corporate domicile may 
take custody of the property "until some other State comes forward with 
proof that it has a superior right to escheat." 
Id., at 682. 
In the latter case, the State of Pennsylvania sought to escheat 
a portion of the proceeds from unclaimed Western Union money orders which 
had been purchased in Pennsylvania. The Court acknowledged that in this 
type of transaction " . . . Western Union does not regularly record the 
addresses of its money order creditors [and that] it is likely that the 
corporate domicile will receive a much larger share of the unclaimed 
funds here than in the case of other obligations, like bills for ser-
vices rendered, where such records are kept as a matter of business 
practice." 
Id., at 214. Nevertheless, the Court affirmed the rule 
enunciated in Texas v. New Jersey and, accordingly, awarded the proceeds 
of the unclaimed money orders to the State in which Western Union had 
rts corporate domicile--New York. 
This decision when applied to similar transactions involving 
money orders or travelers' checks where the addresses of creditors are 
not usually recorded will result in a distribution of funds based solely 
upon the location of a debtor's corporate domicile. 
To correct this 
obvious inequity, the Board concurs with the purpose of the proposed 
.logi slation. The bill focuses not upon the State of the last known 
address of the creditor, but upon the State where the debtor-creditor 
rela tionship was established--the place of purchase of the instrument 
(which in most cases will be the residence of the creditor). 
The dis-
. senti.ng opinion of Mr. Justice Powell, Jr. in the Pennsylvania v. New 
\ Xork case (joined by Mr. Justice Blackmun and Mr. Justice Rehnquist) 
" took a similar position and concluded that 
"[t]his modification is preferable, first, because 
it preserves the equitable foundation of the Texas v. New 
Jersey rule. The State of the corporate debtor's domicile 
is denied a 'windfall'; the fund is divided in a proportion 
approximating the volume of transactions occurring in each 
State; and the integrity of the notion that these amounts 

4241 
The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page Three 
represent assets of the individual purchasers or 
recipients of money orders is maintained. 
Secondly, 
the relevant information would be more easily ob-
tainable. . . ." Id., at 220. 
The Board believes, however, that the proposed bill in its 
present form will not accomplish its intended purpose. 
The language 
used in sec. 2(a), (b) and (c) of S. 1895 refers to the State where 
such instruments were "issued". At least with respect to travelers' 
checks, the distinction between their issuance and their purchase or 
sale is more real than apparent. Most commercial banks throughout 
the country do not issue travelers' checks; instead, they sell trav-
elers' checks in their capacity as agent for an issuing company. 
(An exception to this is the Republic National Bank of Dallas, Dallas, 
Texas, which issues its own travelers' checks; but this business ac-
counts for only 1 per cent of the total sales of such instruments in 
the United States.) On the other hand, there are five organizations 
supplying (issuing) most of the output of the traveler's check industry 
which has, today, annual United States sales of approximately $6 bil-
lion. The largest organization, American Express, accounts for about 
two-thirds of the. industry total; two nonbanking subsidiaries of large 
hank holding companies each control almost 15 per cent of that, total; 
and two other firms each have approximately 1 per cent thereof. 
Clearly, an organization that issues such instruments will not usually 
be the organization that sells such instruments to the public. 
This 
fact emphasizes again the importance of the place where the instrument 
is ultimately purchased in order to determine the origin of the trans-
action. Accordingly, in order to avoid any possible ambiguity, the 
Board suggests that the appropriate portions of sec. 2 of the bill be 
amended by eliminating the word "issued" and substituting the word 
'purchased". 
By such a change, the bill will more effectively achieve 
*-ts stated purpose. 
In addition, the Board would like to express its views con-
cerning portions of sec. 2(b) and (c) which, in part, state: 
" . . . where the books and records of such banking 
or financial organization or business association do not 
shew the State or origin of the transaction wherein such 
money order, travelers check, or similar written instrument 
was issued, the State in wltich the banking or financial 
organization or business association is organized or in-
corporated (emphasis supplied) or, in the case of a na-
tional banking association or other entity organized under 

The Honorable John Sparkman 
Page Four 
Federal law, the State of its principal place of bus in ess; 
(emphasis supplied) shall be entitled to escheat „ . . ." 
As see. 2(b) and (c) are presently drafted, two different tests are pro-
posed to be employed to determine which State is entitled to escheat--if 
the banking or financial organization or business association has been 
organized or incorporated under State law, that State is the place; on 
the other hand, if it is a national banking association or an entity 
organized under Federal law, the State of its principal place of business 
is the place. 
The Board believes that regardless of where or under what 
jurisdiction a banking or financial organization or business association 
is organized the test should be identical, namely, the State of its 
principal place of business. 
In its present language, the State of 
organization or incorporation of such banking or financial organization 
or business association would be determinative and this place would often 
have no connection whatsoever with the State of origin of the transaction. 
In fact, employment of the proposed test would result in a windfall for a 
few States in which the laws for corporate organization are most attractive. 
However, uniform application of the "principal place of business" test 
Would prevent such a windfall and would assure a more equitable distribution 
°f abandoned proceeds of such instruments among the several States having 
a closer connection with the origin of the transaction. 
The Board would 
tJe happy to provide an appropriate amendment in accordance with our 
re commenda t i on s. 
Sincerely yours, 
(si^n::) :,v.!:r F. Burns 
O K O 
Arthur Fc Burns 

4213 
Item No. 14 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/1/73 
UNION BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
and Acquisition of Unionamerica Leasing Corporation 
and Unionamerica Computer Corporation 
Union Bancorp, Inc., Los Angeles, California, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
the acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares of Union Bank, Los 
Angeles, California ("Bank"). 
At the same time, Applicant has applied for the Board's approval 
under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y 
to engage in full-payout leasing activities and electronic data proces-
sing activities through the acquisition, respectively, of Unionamerica 
Leasing Corporation ("Leasing") and Unionamerica Computer Corporation 
("Computer"), both of Los Angeles, California. Such activities have been 
determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4 
(*)(6) and (8)). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§§ 3 and 4 of the Act (38 Federal Register 19718). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and the Board has considered the applica-
tions and all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), and the considerations specified 
§ 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(8)). 

4J2-1 
-2-
Applicant, recently organized for the purpose of becoming a 
bank holding company, has no business activities and no operating history. 
The proposed transactions are part of a plan of reorganization whereby 
Unionamerica, Inc., Los Angeles, California, the present parent corpora-
tion of Bank, Computer and Leasing, proposes to separate its banking and 
Permissible nonbanlcing activities from its other nonbanking activities. 
Bank, with deposits of $2.7 billion, is the sixth largest com-
mercial bank in California, controlling approximately 4 per cent of total 
deposits in commercial banks in the State. (Banking data are as of June 
30, 1973,,) On the record herein, the Board concludes that consummation of 
the proposal would not eliminate any existing or potential competition, 
increase the concentration of banking resources, nor have an adverse 
effect on the other banks in any relevant area. 
The management, financial condition and prospects of Bank are 
regarded as generally satisfactory. The management of Applicant is 
essentially the same as that of Bank, and the financial condition of 
Applicant, which will depend, at least initially, largely upon that of 
Bank, appears to be satisfactory. Considerations relating to the con-
venience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with 
approval. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition of 
Bank would be consistent with the public Interest, and that the applica-
tion to acquire Bank should be approved. 
Leasing, which was organized de novo by Unionamerica, engages 
in the activity of leasing personal property or equipment, or acting as 

4215 
-3-
agent, broker, or adviser in leasing such property, where the lessor re-
covers its full acquisition cost during the initial terra of the lease from 
(1) rentals, (2) estimated tax benefits, and (3) estimated salvage value, 
leasing has primarily engaged in acting as agent, broker or adviser in 
arranging such full-payout lease transactions and, as of December 31, 
1972, its gross revenues were only $1.5 million. In view of Leasing's 
limited business activity and the fact that Applicant's acquisition of 
Leasing is part of a corporate reorganization, it does not appear that 
any existing or potential competition would be eliminated upon acquisi-
tion of Leasing. 
Computer, which was originally a division of Bank, had gross 
revenues of approximately $4.5 million as of December 31, 1972. Computer 
is primarily engaged in providing data processing services to Bank. Upon 
consummation of this proposal, Computer shall limit its activities to: 
(1) electronically processing banking, financial and related economic 
data, including the development of computer programs therefor; (2) making 
excess computer time available by furnishing its data processing facility 
and necessary operating personnel to persons who wish to utilize such time; 
(3) selling by-products resulting from the development of programs pertain-
ing to the processing of banking, financial and related economic data; and 
(4) providing any data processing service upon request of a customer if 
such service Is not otherwise reasonably available in the relevant market, 
Due to Computer's limited activities and recognizing that Applicant's 

4 2 1 G 
-4-
acquisition of Computer is part of a corporate reorganization, the Board 
concludes that acquisition of Computer by Applicant would not eliminate any 
listing or potential competition. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consummation 
of the proposals to acquire Computer or Leasing would result in any undue 
concentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
unsound banking practices, or other adverse effects upon the public interest. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, 
the Board has determined that the balance of public interest factors that 
the Board is required to consider regarding the acquisition of Leasing and 
Computer under § 4(c)(8) are favorable and that the application should be 
approved. 
As part of its consideration of the instant application, the 
B°ard has also considered the plan of divestiture ("plan") adopted by 
^nionamerica, Inc., in order to terminate its status as a bank holding 
company in accordance with the irrevocable declaration filed, pursuant 
t o § 225.4(d) of Regulation Y, by Unionamerica that it would cease to be 
a bank holding company by January 1, 1981. The plan includes the trans-
fer of Bank, Computer and Leasing to Applicant, and thereafter the trans-
fer of all of Unionamerica1s remaining assets, including less than 5 per 
cent of the voting shares of Applicant, to a new corporation to be named 
Unionamerica. As part of the plan of divestiture, Unionamerica has 

424 
-5-
submitted documents dated May 14, July 23, August 28, October 4 and 
October 8, 1973, to the Board that contain facts and assurances and 
mn. 
1/ 
roaKe certain commitments that provide essentially as follows: 
1. A commitment by Applicant and Bank that neither corporation 
will control or exert a controlling influence or attempt to control or 
e*ert a controlling influence over New Unionamerica or any of its sub-
sidiaries through interlocking officer, director or policy-making employee 
relationships or in any other manner. 
2. A commitment by New Unionamerica with respect to Applicant 
and all of its subsidiaries substantially similar to the commitment in 
Paragraph 1. 
3. A commitment by Applicant and Bank that Applicant and all 
its subsidiaries and the respective officers, directors and policy-
making employees of Applicant and all of its subsidiaries, and the spouses 
and minor children of such officers, directors and policy-making employees, 
° r any combination of such persons, will not, in the aggregate, own, con-
trol or hold with power to vote, directly or indirectly, 25 per cent or 
m° r e o f the outstanding voting shares of New Unionamerica. 
4. A commitment by New Unionamerica on behalf of itself and 
a l 1 of its subsidiaries with respect to voting shares of Applicant, sub-
stantially similar to the commitment in paragraph 3. 
1/ The facts, assurances and commitments contained in the documents sub-
mitted by Unionamerica are set forth in more detail in the Board's letter 
today's date to Applicant. The contents of the Board's letter, as well 
I s t h e contents of the documents described in the Board's Order and letter, 
r e specifically incorporated into this Order by reference. 

.. 4248 
-6-
5. A commitment by Applicant and Bank that Applicant and all 
of ita subsidiaries will not, in the aggregate, own, control or hold 
with power to vote, directly or indirectly, 5 per cent or more of the 
outstanding voting shares of New Unionamerica and that neither Applicant 
nor any of its subsidiaries will, after the effective date of the plan, 
acquire any shares of New Unionamerica. 
6. A commitment by New Unionamerica on behalf of itself and 
all of l t s subsidiaries with respect to shares of Applicant substantially 
similar to the commitment in paragraph 5. 
7. A commitment by Applicant, Bank, and New Unionamerica that, 
with the exception of Mr. R. H. Volk, the proposed president and a pro-
posed director of New Unionamerica, who also plans to serve as a director 
Applicant and Bank, and Dr. H. Craven, who plans to serve as an economist 
for both Bank and a subsidiary of New Unionamerica, there will be no inter-
locking personnel relationships between New Unionamerica or any of its 
subsidiaries and Applicant or any of its subsidiaries, 
8. An affidavit from Mr. R. H. Volk which states that in acting 
a8 a director of Applicant and Bank: he will not be acting pursuant to 
an agreement with or under instructions from New Unionamerica and he has 
not been instructed by Applicant or Bank to take any such instruction from 
New Unionamerica; he will net be subject to control by New Unionamerica; 
he will not represent the interests of New Unionamerica; and he will make 
substantially similar statements with respect to UB and Eank with regard 
to his service as president and a director of New Unionamerica. Mr. R. H. 
folk's affadavit also states that in serving as a director of Applicant, 

4219 
-7-
New Unionamerica and Bank, he will abstain from voting upon any matter to 
be acted upon by the board of directors of any of those corporations which 
involves a conflict of interest with any other of such corporations. 
Notwithstanding the above-mentioned facts, assurances and com-
mitments, the Board is concerned that Applicant may be able to control or 
exert a controlling influence over New Unionamerica or New Unionamerica may be 
able to control or exert a controlling influence over Applicant. After the 
effective date of the plan, New Unionamerica will own slightly less than 
5 Per cent of the voting shares of Applicant and Applicant will own, in-
directly, approximately 2 per cent of the voting shares of New Unionamerica, 
ai*d, indirectly, Applicant will hold in a fiduciary capacity approximately 
an additional 3 per cent of the voting shares of New Unionamerica. Mr. 
H. Volk, the president and a director of Unionamerica, and a director 
°f Bank, plans to become the president and a director of New Unionamerica, 
a director of Applicant, and remain a director of Bank. Fifteen other 
former directors of Unionamerica will also serve on Applicant's eighteen-
raember board of directors. Applicant, Bank and New Unionamerica will all 
be located in the same office building. Further, there are longstanding 
and close associations as well as common interests between Applicant's 
Proposed subsidiaries and New Unionamerica1s proposed subsidiaries. In 
view of these and other facts of record, the Board regards the interlock-
ing personnel relationship involving Mr. R. H. Volk as being inconsistent 
with an effective separation of banking and nonbanlclng interests as re-
tired by the Act. However, in view of the size of both Applicant and 

_ 4250 
-56-
New Unionamerica, and the fact that Unionamerica is taking significant 
action to separate its banking from its nonbanking interests in advance 
°f the January 1, 1981, deadline provided in its irrevocable declaration, 
the Board concludes, on the basis of the particular facts of this case, 
that Mr. R, H. Volk's service for New Unionamerica and for Applicant (and 
Bank) for a reasonable transitional period of time does not preclude a 
Board determination of an effective separation of banking and nonbanking 
interests and does not preclude approval of the transactions herein, 
Provided that Mr. R. H. Volk terminates his service as an officer, 
director or policy-making employee of Applicant and all of its subsidiaries 
0 r of New Unionamerica and all of its subsidiaries as soon as practicable, 
but not later than January 1, 1977. 
Accordingly, on the basis of the facts of record and for the 
reasons summarized above, the applications to acquire Bank, Leasing and 
Computer are approved subject to all of the referenced facts, assurances, 
and commitments contained herein and subject to the further condition 
that Mr. R. H. Volk cease to serve as an officer, director or policy-
making employee of Applicant and all of its subsidiaries or New Union-
america and all of its subsidiaries not later than January 1, 1977. 
The acquisition of Bank shall not be made (a) before the thirtieth 
calendar day following the effective date of this Order nor (b) shall the 
acquisition of Bank, Computer or Leasing be made later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order unless such period is extended for 
good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco 
Pursuant to delegated authority. The determinations as to Leasing and 
Computer's activities are subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 

4251 
-9-
°f Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require reports by, and 
make examinations of, holding companies and their subsidiaries and to 
require such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
Moreover, the Board's findings and action herein are subject to amend-
ment, revocation or nullification by the Board should it conclude that 
Applicant or any of its subsidiaries exercises control or a controlling 
influence over New Unionamerica or any of its subsidiaries or that New 
unionamerica or any of its subsidiaries exercises control or a controlling 
influence over Applicant or any of its subsidiaries, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective November 7, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
Brimmer, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Sheehan. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R G 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D O R E R S 
D S f t n i A l . 
C O R H E S P U N O f . N C t ; 
T O 
T H E 
U O A R O 
November 7, 1973 
AIR_ KAIL •• REGISTERSD 
RKiIilW ];)•:(;;; j.jr'.:; iO:Q"ui:;sTT:D 
UnIon Bancorp, Inc.. 
445 South Figueroa Street 
Los Angeles, California 
90017 
r 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System has 
approved the applications, filed pursuant to the Bank Holding Company 
Act, of Union Bancorp, Inc., Los Angeles, California, to acquire (1) 
Union Bank, (2) Union America Computer Corporation, and (3) Union-
america Leasing Corporation, all of Los Angelas, California, subject 
to the facts, assurances, commitments and conditions specified in the 
Board's Order and set forth hereinafter. 
In connection with the application of Union Bancorp. Inc. 
("UB") to become a bank holding company through the acquisition of 
Union Bank ("Bank"), the Board of Governors ("Board") has considered 
the May 14, 1973, request of Unionamerica ("UA") for a determination 
that, upon the effective date of a plan of reorganization ("effective 
date") described in such request, the corporation which acquires UA's 
nonbankirig assets — to be called New Unionamerica ("NU")--will not be 
a bank holding company within the meaning of section 2 of the Bank 
Holding Company Act, as amended ("Act"), if such reorganization is 
consummated substantially in the form as set forth in the May 14 re-
quest. The Board has also considered whether, after the effective 
date, UB would appear to control or exert a controlling influence over 
NU within the meaning of the Act. 
The request states that UA became a bank holding company on 
December 31,.1970, upon the enactment of the 1970 Amendments to the 
Act by virtue of UA's ownership of all the outstanding shares of Bank. 
In July 1971, UA filed an irrevocable declaration pursuant to § 225.4(d) 
of Regulation Y that it will cease to be a bank holding company by 
J anuary 1, 1981. The proposed plan of reorganization is intended to 
result in an effective divestiture by UA of its banking business to UB 
and its nonbanking business to NU. 
i o t o 
Item No. 15 
11/1/73 

Union Bancorp, Inc. 
2 
4253 
In ordp.r to demonstrate t:o the Board that npon the. c f c t i v c 
date NU will not: be a bank holding company and neither IJB nor Bank will 
control or exert a controlling influence over Ml!, UA has presented cer-
tain facts and assurances to the Board in its request and in letters of 
July 23, August 28, October 4 and October 8, 1973. UA has also committed 
to i;lie Board that prior to November 15, 1973, Mr. R. II. Voile will submit 
an affidavit to the Board, and NU, UB and Bank will submit to the Board 
resolutions adopted by their respective boards of directors which make 
certain additional commitments to the. Board. 
It is understood that the 
affidavit and the resolutions to be submitted will be substantially 
similar to those set forth in the October 4 and 8 letters, and will 
essentially provide the following: 
T 
1. .UB, Bank and NU wil] each adopt a resolution that except 
for Mr. R. II. Volk, who will serve as president and director of irj and 
also as a director of UB and Bank, and Dr. 11. Craven, who will serve as 
senior economist for Bank and Unionamerica Investment Management Company 
(a proposed subsidiary of NU) , each corporation commits to the. Board that 
after the effective date, there will be no interlocking personnel rela-
tionships between NU or any of its subsidiaries and UB or any of its 
subsidiaries (including Bank) with respect t<5 any directors, officers or 
policy-making employees of any such corporation, except as may be ap-
proved by the Board. 
'?., Mr. R, 11, Volk will submit an affidavit to the Board 
stating that, in acting in his capacity as a director of UB and Bank, 
be will not be acting pursuant to any agreement with or under instruc-
tions from NU; that he has not been instructed by UB or Bank to take 
any such instructions from NU; that, in acting in his capacity as 
president and a director of NU, he will not be acting pursuant to an 
agreement with or under instructions from UB or Bank; that, in acting 
in his capacity as a director of UB or Bank, he will not be subject to 
control by NU; that, in acting in his capacity as president and a direc-
tor of NU, he will not be subject to control by UB or Bank; that he will 
not represent the interests of NIT in serving in his capacity as a 
director of UB or Bank; that lie will not represent the interests of UB 
or Bank in serving in his capacity as president and a director of NU; 
and that he will, in serving as a director of UB, NU and Bank, abstain 
from voting upon any matter to be acted upon by the board of directors 
of any of those corporations, or by any committee thereof, which involves, 
directly or indirectly, a conflict of interest arising from his position 
with any other of such corporations. 
3. UB and Bank will each adopt a resolution which commits to 
the Board that, after the effective date, each corporation will not, 

_ 4 2 5 4 
Union Bancorp, Inc. 2 
directly or indirectly, control or exert a controlling influence or 
attempt' to control or exert a controlling influence over KU or any 
of the. subsidiaries of KU through interlocking officer, director or 
policy-making employee relationships between each corporation or any 
of their respective subsidiaries and KU or any of its subsidiaries or 
in any other manner whatsoever, 
4. NU will adopt a resolution with respect to UB and all 
of its subsidiaries (including Bank) substantially similar to the 
resolution in paragraph 3. 
5. 
UB and Bank will each adopt a resolution which commits 
to the Board that, after the effective date, UB, all of its subsidiaries 
(including Bank) and the respective officers, directors and policy-making 
employees of UB 
and all of its subsidiaries, and the spouses and minor 
children of such officers, directors and policy-making employees, or any 
combination of such persons, will not in the aggregate own, of record or 
beneficially, control or hold with power to vote, directly or indirectly, 
25 per cent or more of the outstanding voting shares of KU. 
6. KU will adopt a resolution with respect to itself and all 
of its subsidiaries concerning UB shares substantially similar to the 
resolution described in paragraph 5. 
7. UB and Bank will each adopt a resolution which commits to 
the Board that., after the effective date, UB and all of its subsidiaries 
(including Bank) will not in the aggregate own, control or hold with 
power to vote, directly or indirectly, 5 per cent or more of the out-
standing voting securities of NU, exclusive of shares permitted to be 
held by^ Bank under § 4(c)(4) of the Bank Holding Company Act ot 19:*, 
as amended; and that neither UB nor any of its subsidiaries (including 
Bank) will, after the effective date, acquire any shares of NU except 
(]) as a result of any merger, consolidation, stock dividend, stock 
split or other reorganization or recapitalization of KU to which Ub or 
its subsidiary is not a party other than as a shareholder of NU; (2) 
shares acquired or held in good faith in a fiduciary capacity; and 
(3) shares acquired in satisfaction of a debt previously contracted 
m 
good faith. 
8 
KU will adopt a resolution which commits to the Board that 
after the effective date, NU and all of its subsidiaries will not in the 
aggregate own, control or hold with power to v o t e 
directly or indirect] 
5 per cent or more of the outstanding voting securities of UB; and LhaL 
nci ther KU nor any of its subsidiaries will, after the effective date, 

Union Bancorp, Inc. 2 
4 2 5 5 
acquire any shares of UB except: as a result: of any merger, consolidation, 
stock dividend, stock split or other reorganization or recapitalization 
of UB to which NU or any of its subsidiaries is not a party other than 
as a shareholder of UB. 
The Board has carefully examined the facts, actions and commit-
ments described in UA's request of May 14, 1973, and contained in UA's 
letters of July 23, August 28, October 4 and October S, 1973, in the 
Board's consideration of UB 1s applications. 
Notwithstanding such facts, 
actions, and commitments, the Board is concerned that NU may be able to 
control or exert: a controlling influence over the management and policies 
of 1JB or that UB may be. able to control or exert a controlling influence 
over the management and policies of KU, After the effective date of the 
plan, KU will own slightly less than 5 per cent of the voting shares of 
UB, and UB will own, indirectly, approximately 2 per cent of the voting 
shares of NU and, indirectly, UB will hold in a fiduciary capacity ap-
proximately an additional 3 per cent of the voting shares of NU. Mr. 11. 
11. Volk, the president and a director of UA, and a director of Bank, plan 
to become the president and a director of ITU, a director of UB, and remai 
a director of Bank. 
Fifteen other former directors of UA will also serve 
on UB's eighteen-member board of directors. «UB, Bank and NU will all be 
located in the same office building. Further, there are longstanding and 
close associations as well as common interests between UB's proposed 
subsidiaries and Nil's proposed subsidiaries. 
In view of these and other 
facts of record, the Board regards the interlocking personnel relation-
ship involving Mr. R. R. Volk as being inconsistent: with an effective 
separation of banking and nonbanking interests as required by the Act. 
However, in view of the si;;e of both UB and KU, and considering that 
UA is taking significant action to separate its banking from its non-
banking interests in advance of January 1, 1981, the Board concludes, 
on the basis of the particular facts of this case, that Mr. R. H. Volk's 
service for NU and for UB (and Bank) for a reasonable transitional period 
of time does not preclude a determination by the Board of an effective 
separation of banking and nonbanking interests, provided that Mr. R. H. 
Volk terminates his service as an officer, director or policy-making 
employee of UB and all of its subsidiaries or of NU and all of its sub-
sidiaries as soon as practicable, but not later than January 1, 1977. 
On the basis of the facts, actions, and commitments described 
in UA's request of May 14, 1973, and contained in UA's letters of 
July 23, August 28, October 4 and October 8, 1973, and subject to the 
condition that, prior to November 15, 1973, the Board shall receive 
documents providing assurances substantially similar to those contained 
in paragraphs 1 through 8 of this letter and subject also to the condi-
tion that: Mr. R. 11. Volk terminates his service 
as an officer, director 
or policy-making employee of either UB and all of its subsidiaries or NU 
and all of its subsidiaries as soon as practicable but no later than 

4 S J 5 6 
Union Bancorp, Inc. 2 
January ]., 1977 , and subject further to strict compliance with the 
aforementioned facts, assurances and commitments and conditions, the 
Board has approved Union Bancorp's applications and concludes that 
NU will not be a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank 
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, and that neither UB nor Bank, 
directly or indirectly, would appear to control or exert a controlling 
influence over Nil. 
As indicated above, approval of UB ' s applications and the con-
clusions expressed herein with respect to the relationships between UB 
anu Nil are based upon the information presented to the Board that is 
summarised above and are subject to the conditions imposed by the Board. 
I 
In addition to the foregoing, the Board has also considered 
whether, upon the effective date, Bank and NU would be affiliates within 
the meaning of § 2(b)(2) of the Banking Act of 1933 (12 U.5.C. 221a(b)(2)) 
and has concluded that NU and Bank would be affiliates within the meaning 
of § 2(b)(2). 
Pursuant to the plan of reorganization, each present shareholder 
of UA will receive one share of UB and one-halt* share of NU in exchange 
for each share of UA held. UB in turn would own and control 100 per cent 
of the shares of Bank and bank ownership and control would be the princi-
pal activity oi UB. 
Under such circumstanccs, the Board is of the view 
that; the shareho.! dors of UB should be regarded as the shareholders of a 
member bank within the meaning of § 2(b)(2). 
In view of the fact that a 
majority of the shareholders of Bank would also be a majority of the-
shareholders of NU, NU and Bank would be affiliates within the meaning 
of that section of the Banking Act of 1933. 
Enclosed is material related to the Board's action. 
In connection with the provisions of the Board's Order relating 
to the time within which the actions herein approved arc to be consummated, 
advice of the fact of consummation should be given in writing to the 
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, 
Very truly yours, 
/}'V~ 
'Y- 
^/ 
Is't -' 
A--*', 
Chester B. Fcldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosures; 
1. 
Press Release 
2. 
Order 
