MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 24, 1973 

1 8 2 6 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, May 24, 19 73. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Katz, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Henry, Assistant Adviser, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

1&Z7 
5/24/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. The establishment without change by 
the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, Philadelphia, and San Francisco 
on May 17 and by the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston on May 21, 1973, 
of the rates on advances and discounts in their existing schedules 
was approved unanimously, with the understanding that appropriate 
advice would be sent to those Banks. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First 
National City Overseas Investment Corporation, New York, New York, 
to invest in additional shares of Ripco S.A.C.I. y F., Buenos Aires, 
Argentina. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 1. 
The Board approved, Governor Brimmer dissenting, the appli-
cation of New Jersey Bank National Association, Paterson, New Jersey, 
to establish a branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands. A copy of 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved a proposal by Security Bank 
and Trust Company of Owatonna, Owatonna, Minnesota, to issue capital 
n°tes. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is attached as Item No. 3. 
In this connection a letter was sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Minneapolis in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First State 
Bank of Apple Valley, Apple Valley, Minnesota, for membership in the 
Federal Reserve System. A copy of the letter sent to the bank is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

5/24/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Worcester 
Bancorp, Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of Empire 
Mortgage Corp. of Connecticut, Empire Mortgage Corp. of Massachusetts, 
Empire Finance Corp. of Rhode Island, and Empire Mortgage Corp. of 
New Hampshire, Inc. The Board also authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Worcester 
Bancorp, Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, to acquire shares of North 
American Financial Company Limited, Toronto, Canada. A copy of the 
letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of U.N. 
Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, Missouri, to acquire shares of Bank 
of Taney County, Forsyth, Missouri, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 8. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mark 
Twain Bancshares, Inc., Clayton, Missouri, to acquire shares of 
Parkway Bank and Trust Company, Chesterfield, St. Louis County, Missouri, 
and authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy 
is attached as Item No. 9. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
American Indian National Bank. In a memorandum of May 22, 
19 73, the Legal Division presented a question arising from the organi-
zational arrangements of the proposed American Indian National Bank, 

182S 
5/24/73 
-4-
to be located in Washington, D.C. The bank was to be owned by 
American Indian Trust for a maximum period of one year while the 
shares were being sold to American Indians. The bank would enter 
into (1) a management contract with International Bank, Washington, 
D.C., and (2) a service contract with The First National Bank of 
Washington, a subsidiary of Financial General Bankshares. The orga-
nizers had requested a letter from the Board that would involve a 
finding that American Indian Trust would not be a bank holding company 
and that the performance of the contracts would not result in either 
International Bank or First National Bank of Washington being considered 
by the Board to be in control of American Indian National Bank. The 
Legal Division recommended that the Board authorize the staff to 
indicate to the organizers informally that American Indian Trust would 
not constitute a bank holding company but that the control presumptions 
in Regulation Y, Bank Holding Companies, would apply to both Interna-
tional Bank and First National Bank of Washington, and that only a 
control proceeding could determine whether or not control was exercised 
°ver American Indian National Bank. It was believed that if the 
organizers were apprised of the particular features of the proposed 
arrangements that led to that position (such as the proposed 15-year 
term for the management consulting agreement) they might be able to 
modify the proposal prior to their June 1, 1973, Governmental funding 
deadline. 

1830 
5/24/73 
-5-
Discussion included consideration of the question whether, 
since Departments of the Federal Government were providing financial 
and other assistance to facilitate the organization of the proposed 
bank, which was intended to serve a social purpose, the control 
circumstances might be regarded as not of the kind contemplated by 
Congress in the restrictions of the Bank Holding Company Act. Comments 
were made on possible similarities between the arrangements contemplated 
for American Indian National Bank and a question discussed by the 
Board on October 18, 1971, regarding a proposal by a Philadelphia 
member bank to provide management, training, and related services for 
a minority-organized State bank. At the conclusion of the discussion, 
a majority preference developed for the course recommended by the 
Legal Division. The staff was therefore authorized to indicate to 
the organizers of American Indian National Bank a position reflecting 
the terms described in the Legal Division's memorandum. 
United Tennessee Bancshares. In a memorandum of May 17, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking 
Markets Section recommended denial of the application of United 
Tennessee Bancshares Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to merge with 
American National Corporation, Chattanooga, Tennessee. 
The Board unanimously denied the application. It was under-
stood that documents to implement this decision would be prepared 
for the Board's consideration. 

'l.'Ns.^ 1 
5/24/73 
-6-
Centran Bancshares. In a memorandum of May 15, 1973, the 
Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets Section 
recommended approval of the application of Centran Bancshares Corpo-
ration, Cleveland, Ohio, to acquire shares of Peoples Investment 
Company, Louisville, Kentucky, on condition that the applicant dispose 
of its automobile leases and discontinue all automobile leasing 
activities now conducted indirectly by Peoples Investment Company 
through its subsidiary, Peoples Leasing Company. 
The Board unanimously approved the application, with the 
recommended condition, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 10. 
Foreign banking offices. In a memorandum of May 22, 1973, 
the Division of International Finance recommended, in the light of 
the Board's May 16 monetary policy actions and the request for 
voluntary cooperation made to nonmember banks, that the Board make 
a somewhat similar request to the U.S. agencies and branches of 
foreign banks. The objectives would be (1) to supplement the mild 
restraint on member banks' credit expansion that was imposed by the 
Board's marginal reserve requirement against large certificates of 
deposit, by imposing some restraint on the flow of funds through the 
agencies and branches to member banks; and (2) to promote equity 
between agencies and branches of foreign banks on the one hand and 
member banks on the other. Of several approaches that had been 

183J2 
5/24/73 
-7-
considered, as described in the memorandum, the Division recommended 
one in which the agencies and branches would be requested to maintain 
3 per cent marginal reserve deposits against the increase in the sum 
of their domestic large CD liabilities and their net liabilities to 
head offices and other foreign affiliated offices, from a base amount 
outstanding at the end of April 1973, or alternatively the average 
of the first four months of 1973. 
Discussion, which was intended to be only preliminary, centered 
on two issues. One was the relative merits of the reserve deposit 
approach recommended by the staff, as compared with an approach in 
which the agencies and branches would be requested to observe for 
the rest of 1973 a guideline limiting to a certain percentage the 
growth, over a base period, of certain assets, specifically their 
overnight and period loans to banks in the United States plus their 
loans to securities brokers and dealers. The guideline approach was 
advocated by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Although interest 
was expressed in the reasoning advanced by the New York Reserve Bank 
in favor of the guideline approach, greater weight was given to the 
view that such a guideline implied structural reforms that should 
be studied by Congress. The other issue was the choice between a 
reserve deposit of 3 per cent, which would be comparable to the 
request made of large nonmember banks, and a reserve deposit of 8 
Per cent, which would put foreign branches and agencies on the same 
basis as member banks. 

1633 
5/24/73 
-8-
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that 
the Board would revert to the question within the next few days. 
First Chicago International Finance. In a memorandum of 
May 11, 1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended 
approval, except for certain requested exemptions, of the application 
of First Chicago International Finance Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, 
to acquire shares of First Chicago (Delaware), Inc., a Delaware 
chartered corporation, and for permission for the latter company 
(1) to incur a debt obligation; (2) to acquire shares of First Chicago 
Ltd., London, England; (3) to acquire stocks for which the Board 
previously had granted consent for the applicant and its parent bank 
to acquire; and (4) to be exempted from certain provisions of Regu-
lation K, Corporations Engaged in Foreign Banking and Financing 
under the Federal Reserve Act. 
The Board unanimously approved the application with certain 
conditions and exceptions as specified in the letter sent to the 
applicant, a copy of which is attached as Item No. 11. 
Atlantic Bancorporation. The Legal Division and the Banking 
Markets Section, in memoranda of May 18 and May 2, 1973, respectively, 
recommended approval of a request from Atlantic Bancorporation, 
Jacksonville, Florida, that the Board reconsider its application 
(denied by order dated November 22, 1972) to acquire shares of Bank 
of New Smyrna, New Smyrna Beach, Florida. Staff considered that 
efficient new information had been submitted to warrant reconsideration. 

1834 
5/24/73 
-9-
Discussion developed agreement that the new information 
submitted justified further exploration of the application. Accord-
ingly, the Board authorized issuance of an order approving the 
applicant's request for reconsideration. A copy is attached as 
» 12. In this connection, the Board requested that a survey 
o f the market area involved be conducted by the Federal Reserve 
^ank of Atlanta, as recommended by the Banking Markets Section. 
All members of the staff except Messrs. Holland, Melnicoff, 
Feldberg, Partee, and Leavitt then withdrew and Mr. Wood of the 
division of Personnel Administration entered the room. 
Officer appointments. Pursuant to recommendations by 
Holland in a memorandum of May 21, 1973, the Board unanimously 
the appointments of Theodore E. Allison as Assistant 
c 
ecretary, Office of the Secretary, at an annual salary of $24,000, 
ar*d of William Wiles as Assistant Director, Division of Supervision 
a n d Regulation, at an annual salary of $29,500. Determination of 
e effective date of the appointments was deferred pending further 
Couslderation of the appointment, also recommended by Mr. Holland, 
Robert Lawrence as Associate Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics, in connection with the proposed reorganization of the 
Banking Markets Section, 
The meeting then adjourned. 

. 1835 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
YF^LSTOC^. 
• r T H E 
1 1 e m N o . 
1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/24/73 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C Q R R E 5 P D N C) E N C E 
T D 
T H E 
Q O A f i D 
May 24, 1973 
pirst National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
399 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of February 28, 1973, the Board 
Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FNCOIC") to invest 
an additional $250,000 in the shares of Ripco S.A0C,I. y F. ("Ripco"), 
uenos Aires, Argentina, provided the shares are acquired within two 
years from the date of this letter,, 
^ 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
shares of Ripco by FNCOIC is granted subject to the following con-
ations: 
(1) That FNCOIC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in Ripco if Ripco at any time 
fails to restrict its activities to those permissible 
to a corporation in which a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, 
with the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase 
and hoid stock, or if Ripco establishes any branch, or 
agency or takes any action or undertakes zvy operation 
in Argentina or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to FNCOIC; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, FNCOIC 
will furnish (.he Board with such reports regarding the 
activities of Ripco as it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Ripco be 
reported under Section 211..3(d) of Regulation K in the 
same manner as if Ripco were a corporation organized 
under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act; and 

1 8 3 1 ; 
Fir st National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-2-
(4) That Ripco confine its insurance agency activities 
to the types permitted by Section 225.4(a)(9) of 
Regulation Y0 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
re la te to restrictions on loans granted by Ripco in Argentina in the 
currency of that country. 
You have requested consent for Ripco to engage in the 
business of providing consulting services outside the United States, 
The Board's consent is granted subject to the condition that such 
services relating to the U,S. market will be confined to the initial 
entry of foreign companies into that market. 
You have requested consent for Ripco to engage in the business 
°f underwriting or dealing in securities in Argentina, The Board's 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's ob-
taining the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding of 
shares oi Ripco should Ripco acquire stock of individual issuers costing 
u excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent or more of the voting 
snares of any company, except in the case of underwriting operations 
covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters or other purchasers, 
With respect to trading in securities in which Corporations are pro-
hibited from investing by the provisions of the eighth paragraph of 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board's consent is further 
conditiorieci o n (-jie fact that Ripco will acquire such shares only as 
caler or underwriter, maintain a size and turnover of inventory that 
3-s reasonable in relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within 
a reasonable time. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not be 
Reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K„ However, they are to 
G reported as a separate class, together with the date of acquisition, 
any Call Report of Condition or similar report requested by the Board, 
It is understood that Ripco proposes to engage in the business 
managing mutual funds in Argentina. The Board's consent to the pur-
chase and holding of shares of Ripco -is granted on the further condition 
that any mutual funds managed by Ripco will be sold only to non-resident 
aliens of the United States and that such funds will not acquire a 
^aaagement interest in any company in which they invest. 

First National City Overseas 
Investment Corporation 
-3 -
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they apply to First National City Bank and its affiliates0 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

1838 
E 3 D A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
O F THE: 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON', 
D. 
C. 
20L51 
Item No. 2 
5/24/73 
'•MRt^V' 
A D D R E S S 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D O A R D 
May 24, 1973 
New Jersey Bank National Association 
129 Market Street 
^aterson, New Jersey 07505 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System grants 
3-ts permission to New Jersey Bank National Association ("NJBNA"), 
•Patcrson, New Jersey, pursuant to the provisions of Section 25.of the 
Federal Reserve Act, to establish a branch in Grand Cayman, Cayman 
Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to the pro-
visions of such Section and of Regulation M. 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the branch 
^3-11 be used for developing new international business and not as a 
'i0aris of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United States. 
J-t is also understood that there is t;o be no contact with the local 
Public: at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and bookkeeping 
laay, at least in part, be supplied under contract by another party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
c lese types of facilities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
(2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained against 
^Posits in this branch under Section 213// of Regulation M without 
^enefit of the deduction provided in subparagraph (ii) of Sec-
•on 213.7(a) or the exclusion provided in proviso (J) of Sec-
"ion 213,7(b), and (3) the further condition that adequate information 
covering the branch's operations will be maintained at your head office 
and will be available to the Board and its accredited representatives. 
le Board should be promptly informed of any modification in the branch's 
^thods of operation, including changes in any contract under which 
SGlv/ices aire supplied to the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
^.ject to the condition that NJBNA shall liquidate its Nassau branch 
six months after opening the Cayman Islands branch. 

.1 
New Jersey Bank National Association 
-2-
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before June 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby shall be 
deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby granted will 
automatically terminate on that date. 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, when the branch is opened for business, 
furnishing information as to the exact location of the branch» 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in lo-
cation of the branch in Grand Cayman, 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits payable 
only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the States of the 
United States and the District of Columbia are exempt from any limi-
tations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 and Regulation Q. 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally subject to the reserve 
requirements of Regulation D. The general purpose of these exemptions 
is to allow foreign branches of United States banks to compete abroad 
with foreign banks, In these circumstances, it has long been and con-
tinues to be the policy of the Federal Reserve System to discourage 
deposits by United States residents at foreign branches of United States 
banks unless such deposits have been placed to serve a definite, nec-
essary purpose in connection with foreign or international transactions 
outside the United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
Provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
Poses of the foreign credit restraint: effort, In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the balance 
o f payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in the 
conduct of the branch's operations maximum reliance will be placed on 
resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is under-
stood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

•'oorcoV:-. 
1840 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
5/24/73 
A D D R E S S 
O f - I C IA L C Q R R E S P D N D E N C E 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
May 24, 1973 
jjoard of Directors 
Gcurity Bank and Trust Company 
Owatonna, 
'7atonna, Minnesota 
Gentlemen: 
Sect- 
Pursuant to section 217.1 (f) (3) (i) of Regulation Q and 
the p°n 2 0 4 ' 1 ^ K 3 ) ( i ) o f Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
Subo ,(jdGral Rescrvrc! System approves the issuance of a $500,000 
0v/at 
lr,atC'd c a p i t a l notCi b>r Security Bank and Trust Company of 
Re.se°nna 5 CX'7atcnna' Minnesota, in the form submitted to the Federal 
that^0 B a" k ° f M i n n e a P o l i s « 
This approval is given on the condition 
not;^ a s i d c fr°m fixed annual prepayments to begin in 1983, the capital 
appr
 c a i m ct be called for redemption prior to maturity without the 
Under^1 ° f tll° F e d c r a l Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with the 
Vtt h- h t a? d i n E tluU" t h e Sa:,'e o f L h e c a P i t a l n o t e w i i l b e consummated 
111 six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary cf the Board 

1841 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RE5ERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 4 
5/24/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B D A R D 
May 24, 1973 
Lester G. Gable 
vice President 
cderal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
l r m e aPolis, Minnesota 
55480 
Re: 
Issuance of capital note by 
Security Bank and Trust Company 
of Owatonna, Owatonna, Minnesota 
D e a r Mr, Gable: 
^ 
There is enclosed, for delivery to the applicant bank, 
^ Board's letter approving the issuance of $500,000 in a capital 
e by Security Bank and Trust Company of Owatonna, Owatonna, Minnesota. 
The letter to Security Bank and Trust Company of Owatonna 
l d e s a six-month period for the sale of the capital note. The Board 
to 
a ^ 8 0 ^legated authority to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis 
and^ r a n t 
t 0 a si-x~inonth extension of this time should the need arise, 
situation warrant such action. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
E ncl 0 s 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
ure 

B O A R D 
OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
1842 
Item No. 5 
5/24/73 
'•Kis^/ 
A D D R E S i S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
H O A R D 
May 24, 1973 
Board of Directors 
First State Bank oE Apple Valley 
Apple Valley, Minnesota 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
approves the application of First State Bank of Apple Valley, 
Apple Valley, Minnesota, for stock in the Federal Reserve Bank 
Minneapolis, effective if and when the bank opens for business 
under appropriate State authorization, subject to the numbered 
conditions hereinafter set forth. 
1. 
Such bank at all times shall conduct its business and 
exercise its powers with due regard to the safety of 
its depositors, and except with the permission of the 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, such 
bank shall not cause or permit any change to be made in 
the corporate powers exercised by it at the time of 
admission to membership. 
2. 
The net capital and surplus funds of such bank shall 
be adequate in relation to the character and condition 
of its assets and to its deposit liabilities and other 
c or p or ate res p o ns ib i lit i. e s. 
3. 
At the time of admission to membership, such bank shall 
have paid-in and unimpaired capital stock of not less 
than $200,000, and other capital funds of not Jess than 
$400,000. 
In connection with the foregoing conditions of membership, 
t'ic.ular attention is called to the provisions of the Board's 
*-<SUlation II, regarding membership of State banking institutions in 
Fodc-rai Rose, 
thereof. 
serve System, with especial reference to Section 208.7 
A copy of the regulation is enclosed. 

. 1843 
First State Bank of Apple Valley 
- 2 -
It is understood that any significant changes in the 
proposed management of the bank, prior to opening for business, will 
be subject to prior review and approval by the Federal Reserve Bank. 
If at any time a change in or amendment to the bank's charter 
is made, the bank should advise the Federal Reserve Bank, furnishing 
copies of any documents involved in order that it may be determined 
whether such change affects in any way the bank's status as a member 
°f the Federal Reserve System. 
Acceptance of the conditions of membership contained in this 
letter should be evidenced by a resolution adopted by the board of 
directors after the bank has appropriate State authorization to commence 
business. A certified copy of such resolution, together with advice of 
compliance with the provisions of condition numbered 3, should be 
transmitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. 
Arrangements 
w H l thereupon be made to accept payment for an appropriate amount of 
Federal Reserve Bank stock, to accept the deposit of the required re-
serve balance, and to issue the appropriate amount of Federal Reserve 
Bank stock to the bank. 
The time within which admission to membership in the Fedora] 
Reserve System in the manner described may be accomplished is limited 
t:o six months from the date of this letter, unless the bank applies to 
the Board and obtains an extension of time. When the Board is advised 
that a 13 or the requirements have been complied with and that the 
'Appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock lias been issued to 
the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a formal certificate of 
Membership in the Federal Reserve System. 
The Board of Governors sincerely hopes that you will find 
Membership in the System beneficial and your relations with the Reserve 
kank pleasant. The officers of the Federal Reserve Bank will be glad 
t° assist you in establishing your relationships with the Federal Reserve 
System and at any time to discuss with representatives of your bank means 
making the services of the System most useful to you. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
r^cloGure 

1844 
Item No. 6 
5/24/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WORCESTER BANCORP INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Empire Mortgage Corp. of Connecticut, 
Empire Mortgage Corp. of Massachusetts, Empire Finance Corp. of 
Rhode Island, and Empire Mortgage Corp. of New Hampshire 
Worcester Bancorp Inc., Worcester, Massachusetts, a bank holding 
CoinPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
t h e Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
0f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Empire 
°rt8age Corp. of Connecticut, Hartford, Connecticut; Empire Mortgage Corp. 
0f Massachusetts, Natick, Massachusetts J Empire Finance Corp. of Rhode 
I s l a n d» Providence, Rhode Island; and Empire Mortgage Corp. of New Hampshire, 
Co 
ncord, New Hampshire ("Empire Group"), companies that engage primarily 
in the activity of making loans to individuals secured by second mortgages 
°n n°n"~income producing real estate. Such activity has been determined by 
th 
e noard to be closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)) 
All f°ur companies are wholly-owned subsidiaries of Empire Group Inc., Natick, 
lUsetts. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
P e r S° n s to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
b ee n duly published (38 Federal Register 8696). The time for filing 
^ t s 
a n d v i e w g h a s expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls two banks with aggregate deposits of $392 
UlUi 
i0n> representing 3.4 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
a n k s In Massachusetts. Applicant's lead bank, Worcester County National 
Maseach 

- 2 -
1845 
Bank' Worcester, Massachusetts, has deposits of $367.8 million. 
(All 
banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) Applicant also has nonbanking 
u^sidiaries engaged principally in providing realty trust, data 
T\Yr\ 
essing, equipment leasing and small business investment financing 
Aces. None of Applicant's banking or nonbanking subsidiaries are 
^ 
in making consume, loans of the type made b y Empire Group." 
0ugh Applicant's real estate financing subsidiary does make second 
BlOf to 
gage loans, these loans are restricted to commercial and industrial 
loans -f^ 
A n excess of $100,000, on income producing property. 
Empire Group (assets of $1.3 million) engages in or is chartered 
to be en 
"gaged in making consumer loans secured by second mortgages on 
^ential real estate in Massachusetts, Connecticut, Rhode Island, and 
^amPshire. 
Empire Group began operations in 1967 and has operated 
at a i 
oss for the last two years. Empire Group's current second mortgage 
Portfolio in Massachusetts represents no more than 1 per cent of 
Seeond mortgage loan market in that State. Because Applicant does 
Hot 
e second mortgage loans of the kind made by Empire Group, no 
e*iatinp 
8 competition would be eliminated upon consummation of the proposal 
^an 
In view of Empire Group's small size and poor financial condition, 
1 ^ e r e 
that 
relative ease of entry into the second mortgage market, it appears 
^summation of the subject proposal will have no adverse effects on 
fut«t6 o r 
potential competition in any relevant area. Moreover, acquisi-
tion bY A 'PPlicant should provide Empire Group with a needed source of 
J^ng ? t i o n a l banks, Applicant's bank subsidiaries are prohibited from 
t> 
secured by second mortgages. 
GrouP's Rhode Island subsidiary is presently inactive. During 1972, 
roup's Rhode Island and New Hampshire subsidiaries were inactive. 

-3-
1816 
CaPital and experienced managerial resources that should enhance signi-
ficantly Empire Group's ability to operate successfully, and thereby, 
Reserve those companies as competitors in the market for second mort-
8 a g e funds secured by residential real estate. 
Applicant's financial condition and managerial resources are 
atisfactory, and it is believed that the proposed acquisition would 
eac* to improvement of the financial condition and managerial resources 
Empire Group. There is no evidence in the record indicating that con-
cation of the proposed acquisition would result in any undue concen-
ts 
0X1 of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, unsound 
bankj
ri& practices or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in thp> record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
int 
6 r e s t factors the Board is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
^avorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
termination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 225.4(c) 
^ g u x a t i o n y a n d t Q 
goar(j?s authority to require such modification 
teriM 
"iination of the activities of a holding company or any of its 
a3-aries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance with 
^visions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regulations 
e rs issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective 
1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
r 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
.^t] 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
'r 
At 
* Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 
^Uche ° r 
a.ction: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 

m\ 
r-Wh: 
Mm-
1847 
B D A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 7 
5/24/73 
A D O H E S f i 
O T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 24, 1973 
Worcester Bancorp, Inc. 
446 Main Street 
Worcester, Massachusetts 
01608 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your application of February 7, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent, pursuant to the pro-* 
visions of Section 4(c)(13) of the Bank Holding Company Act of 
1956, as amended, and Section 225.4(f) of Regulation Y, for 
your Corporation to purchase and hold all of the shares of 
North American Financial Company Limited ("NAFC"), Toronto, 
Canada, at a cost of approximately $1,000, provided such shares 
a r c acquired within one year from the date of this letter„ 
As a subsidiary of a bank holding company under 
Section 4(c.) (13), NAFC shall confine its activities to inter-
national or foreign banking and other international or foreign 
financial operations. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

. 1848 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
U.N. BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
U.N. Bancshares, Inc., Springfield, Missouri, a bank holding 
c°ftpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
Item No. 8 
5/24/73 
the 
acquire 90 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Taney 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to 
p 
°Utity, Forsyth, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
® 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
n d none has been timely received. The Board has considered the applica-
t l 0 n i n Hght of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S„Ce 
Applicant, the twelfth largest banking organization and bank 
holdin 
company in Missouri, controls three banks with aggregate deposits 
f ^Proximately $127 million, representing one per cent of total deposits 
n c°mmercial banks in the State„ 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 
1972 » and reflect bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by 
e Board through April 30, 1973.) Consummation of the proposal herein 
•increase Applicant's proportionate share of the deposits in com-
^rctai v , 
oanks in the State by less than 0.1 percentage point, and Ap-
a n t's ranking among the State's banking organizations would remain 
Changed 

_ 1849 
-2-
Bank ($9.7 million in deposits) controls approximately 21 per 
cent of the deposits in the Taney County banking market. Each of the 
other banks in the relevant market is nearly twice the size of Bank 
(in 
terms of deposits). There is no significant existing competition 
sen any of Applicant's subsidiary banks and Bank, nor is there a 
e&SOnn'i 
0 i e Probability of competition developing in the future in view 
of 
J mong o t h e r t h i n g s > t h e distances between Bank and each of Applicant's 
tonkin 
8 subsidiaries (none of which is located within 40 miles of 
syth), and Missouri's restrictive branching laws. It appears, there-
fOr^ 
4-L 
' 
h a t consummation of the proposal is not likely to have any adverse 
e^fects °n existing or potential competition. Indeed, affiliation with 
^Plicanh 
way enhance the ability of Bank to compete with the two larger 
vS in Taney County. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
^Ppiicant 
a 
L and its subsidiaries are regarded as satisfactory and con-
Gtlt with approval. The financial resources of Bank appear satis-
f
y
. 
i^ 
» 
® prospects seem favorable; and its management is regarded as 
detail 
y satisfactory. Considerations relating to convenience and needs 
IGN J 
WeiSht toward approval as affiliation with Applicant would better 
B a 
arid 
t 0 m 6 e t t h e a n t i c i p a t e d increasing demands for real estate 
"^ercral loans and other financial services as the area develops 
allow Bank to offer trust services to the numerous retirees 
* °«*rs mo • 
, 
moving into eastern Taney County. It is the Board's judgment 
cons 
t 
N a t i o n of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
> and that the application should be approved. 

1850 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h e reasons summarized above0 
The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
th-l 
s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
8 Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
r by the Federal Reserve Bank of St# Louis pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective M a y 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L, Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Slleehanin8 f° r t h i S a c t l o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Erimmer, 
a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 

, 1 1 8 5 1 
Item No. 9 
5/24/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MARK TWAIN BANCSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mark Twain Bancshares, Inc., Clayton, Missouri, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
0r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
acciuire not less than a majority and as much as all of the voting shares 
directors' qualifying shares) of Parkway Bank and Trust Company, 
Ch 
esterfield, Missouri ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
n s to submit comments and views, has been given in" accordance with 
' °f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, ~ " 
th 
G Board has considered the application and all comments received 
n U g h t of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the twelfth largest multibank holding company in 
controls three banks with aggregate deposits of about $123 million, 
e s e n ting approximately 1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits 
i n the c«. 
c btate. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect 
8 company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
Ma*ch 31 i 
1973.) Consummation of the proposed acquisition of Bank, with 
^Posit s o f $7.5 million, would neither significantly increase Applicant's 
o f commercial bank deposits in the State nor result in a significant 
itlCrSaSe 
• 
ll» the concentration of banking resources in Missouri. 

1852 
-2-
Bank, located in the x^estern portion of the St. Louis banking 
1/ 
market, 
i s the second smallest of eight banks in its primary service 
a r ea, holding about 5 per cent of the combined total deposits within 
tlw s submarket. The largest bank therein is a subsidiary of a one-bank 
holding company, the third and fifth largest are affiliated with multi-
ank holding companies, and the sixth largest is a proposed subsidiary 
0 f the third largest multibank holding company in the State. Applicant's 
fch 
e e subsidiary banks are also located in the St. Louis market and 
^eir combined deposits, together with those of Bank, represent 2 per 
the total commercial deposits in the market area. The record 
6Veals that there is no significant existing competition between 
Ba^ a J 
and Applicant. Although there is a slight overlap of the 
a ry service areas of Bank and one of Applicant's subsidiaries, 
degree of competition is not strong in view of the existence of 
t h e ba! 
Veral intervening banks and numerous banking alternatives. On 
'sis of the record before it, the Board concludes that con-
Sumniat-fo 
A°n of the proposal would not have an adverse effect on 
C0lI1Petiw 
, 
2/ 
iCion in any relevant area. ~ 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
si<Uaries, and Bank are generally satisfactory; future prospects 
^^"^Th 
port! e S t* ^ouis banking market includes the City and County of St. Louis, 
Madt ° n S ° f S t* Charles and Jefferson Counties in Missouri, and portions of 
2/ 
and St. Clair Counties in Illinois. 
tl*at as^ 1 1 1 c o m P e t i n 8 banks have objected to this application on the ground 
v U h tl
 a r e s u l t of Missouri's recently liberalized facility law, Applicant, 
at nin
lr<fe s u b sidiary banks in St. Louis County, could operate facilities 
bility
GJ-OCations in the County. However, the Board foresees little possi-
V ant a g e 
approval herein will give Applicant an unfair competitive ad-
in a market in which it has only a two per cent share. 

- 3 - 
_ 1853 
f°r Applicant and its subsidiaries are favorable while those of Bank 
considered excellent due to the rapid residential, commercial and 
industrial development taking place in Bank's service area. 
Affiliation 
*°uld provide Bank with additional lending capability and would thereby 
satisfy the growing demands for commercial and mortgage loans. In 
Edition, consummation herein would enable Bank to broaden the range 
o f services it presently offers, including computerized payroll and 
trust services. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
needs of the community to be served are consistent with approval. 
^ ^ the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction is in the 
P u b H c interest and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
ttle reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thi* Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
thls Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
^ by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated 
Authority. 
.3\J 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective Hay 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L.< Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
l ^ ^ o H i ^ f o r t h i s action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan 
Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors-Mitchell and Daane. 

; 1854 
Item No. 10 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
5/24/73 
CEMTRAM BANCSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Peoples Investment Company 
Centran Bancshares Corporation, Cleveland, Ohio, a bank 
1)0 ^ in 
^ * 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
S aPplied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
(12 0 q 
n 
1843(c)(8)) and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's 
i o n Y/ to acquire indirectly through a newly-formed sub-
all of the voting shares of Peoples Investment Company, 
L°UiSvil -J Kentucky ("Peoples"), a consumer finance holding 
CoitlPanv 
u • 
*' which engages through its subsidiaries in the activities 
consumer finance loans, purchasing instalment sales 
^tra,,, 
and leasing automobiles and industrial eauipment. 
% o U g h 
. 
J-es insurance agency subsidiarv, Fincastle Insurance 
A ^ n c y 
j 
Anc- ' Louisville, Kentucky, Peoples also engages in the 
Of credit life, accident and health insurance, and mobile 
^ vehi cular damage insurance at the borrower's ootion, in 
^^cti on v;ith loans and discounts that are owned or originated 
its subsidiary loan companies. Such activities, with the 
w 
O^ automobile leasing, have been determined by the 
to 
bc closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)). 
^°tice of the application affording opportunity for 
1 Persons to submit comments and views on the public 
^ s t 
f 
63, 
Actors has been duly published (38 Federal Register 
* T1] 
b^ 
tirne for filing comments has expired, and none has 
tilUely received. 

1855 
- 2 -
Applicant controls five banks with deposits of $1.3 billion 
senting about 5.4 per cent of the total deposits of commercial 
banks i 
Ohio. Applicant has no nonbanking subsidiaries. However, 
t 0 u g h its lead bank, Central national Bank of Cleveland 
""••1Million in deposits)Applicant has a nominal amount of 
talment loans outstanding in the Louisville, Nashville, and 
^ati areas, and one equipment lease outstanding for $927,000 
Cincinnati area. 
Copies is a consumer finance holding company,?/ with its 
15 
G c t and indirect subsidiaries operating out of seven offices: 
n Louisville, Kentucky? one in Covington, Kentucky? one in 
^ v i n 
Tennessee; and one in Cincinnati, Ohio. As of 
M e m b e r 
n 
1972, Peoples had $17 million in instalment receiv-
e s , and the total volume of its ecmipraent leases, distributed 
4 6 n 
leases outstanding in 28 States, amounted to $1.1 million, 
proposed acquisition would have no significant adverse 
0 n existing competition as no meaningful competition would 
i^inated by approval of this application. Applicant does 
t 
0 have the resources and managerial capability to enter 
r, 
^ 
°erved by Peoples through formation of its own consumer 
°mPanieS. However, there are numerous competitors in the 
b 
$7 
— 
$1 
A s of 
g c l a t a a r e 
a s o f J u n e 
3 0 ' 
1 5 7 2 • 
millio P t e m b e r 3 0' 1 9 7 2' P e o p l e s h a d consolidated assets of 

1856 
- 3 ~ 
^tkets served by Peoples' subsidiaries, including a number with 
Clonal o r national affiliations; in addition, the many potential 
and the relative ease of entry into the consumer finance 
kllsir 
ness diminish any possible adverse effects that consummation 
of thA 
. . 
"ie proposed acquisition might have on potential competition. 
t0 the limited nature of the activity of Peoples' insurance 
Subsi i • 
Hilary in acting as agent for the sale of credit insurance 
to loans originated by Peoples' consumer finance sub-
aries, Applicant's acquisition of Peoples would not appear 
to L 
a V e a significantly adverse effect on competition in this 
* iine. The Board concludes that consummation of the 
ed acquisition would have no significant adverse effects 
listing or potential competition in any relevant area. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that consum-
ption 
the proposal would result in any undue concentration 
0 f te 
sources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest or 
Un<l banking practices. Approval of the application, by 
9 Peoples access to Applicant's financial and managerial 
Gesr should enhance its competitive effectiveness and 
to expand the range of services it offers. 
One of Peoples' Cincinnati subsidiaries, Peoples Leasing 
' presently engages in automobile leasing. Such leases, 
a r e typically on a 24-month basis, account for about 6 per 

_ 1857 
- 2 -
CQj^A. 
- Peoples' total receivables. There is some question as 
to whether this activity comes within the literal language ancl/or 
ntenc!ecl scope of "leasing'5 as presently permitted by the Board 
to Kp, 
conaucted by bank holding companies (see § 225.4(a)(6) of 
Elation Y and 12 CFR 225.123 (d)) and, further, the entire 
of leasing of both real and personal property is under 
bY the Board (37 Federal Register 26534). Applicant has 
Seated its willingness to dispose of its automobile leases 
^ discontinue auto leasing activities within 60 days as a 
n^ition for approval of this acquisition. In view of the 
yoing/ tiie B o a rd believes it is in the public interest to 
its Order herein on this undertaking. 
Sased upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in t h 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
interest factors that the Board is required to consider 
e „ , 
s 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is 
i approved subject to Applicant's undertaking to dispose 
° f its 
. . . 
automobile leases and discontinue all auto leasing activities 
Iri 
days from consummation of the acquisition. This deter-
^ t i r y 
• 
u n is subject further to the conditions set forth in 
S 2 25 4 # . 
of Recrulation Y and to the Board's authority to 
such modification or termination of the activities of 

1858 
a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
ne°essary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
of 
Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued there-
unto^ or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective May 24, 1973 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(Sn^j 
s(e ^oEGg for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, 
Bucher. Absent and not votings Governors Ilitchell 

1 8 5 9 
n 
^ . . u, • 
l l f c 
' • ^ R E S ^ X 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 11 
5/24/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 25, 1973 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
One First National Plaza 
Chicago, Illinois 
60670 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letters of March 13 and 23, 1973, 
the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation ("FCIFC") 
(a) to purchase and hold all of the shares of First Chicago (Delaware), 
Inc. ("FCDI"), and (b) to continue to hold the shares of FCDI after 
pCDl acquires shares of First Chicago Ltd. ("FCL"), London, England, 
a cost of approximately $1,000,000 and £1,650,000 (about $4,12.5,000), 
respectively, provided the shares are acquired within one year from 
tfte date of this letter. In this connection, approval is also granted 
the purchase and holding of shares of FCDI in excess of 10 per cent 
0l- your Corporation's capital and surplus, and of shares of FCL in 
^cess of the applicable limitations set forth in the provisions of 
Section 25(a) [12 U.S.C. 615(c)] of the Federal Reserve Act and Sec-
2ll»CJ(b) o f Regulation K. The Board also grants consent for 
Clpc to continue to hold the stock of FCDI after FCDI acquires any 
*tock for which the Board has granted its consent to The First National 
ank cf Chicago in accordance with Regulation M, or to FCIFC in accor-
a n c e with Regulation K, provided such stock shall be held subject to 
same conditions set forth in the Board's consent to the original 
^PPlicant, 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding of 
^res of FCDI by FCIFC is granted subject to the following conditions: 
0 ) 
That FCIFC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in FCDI: (i) if FCDI at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase arid hold stock; (ii) if FCDI establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in the United States or elsewhere, in 
any manner, which at the time would not be permissible 

1 8 M ) 
First Chicago International 
Finance Corporation 
-2 
to FCIFC; or (iii) if FCDI receives any deposits 
in the United States; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Govern^-0; 
FCIFC will cause FCDI (a) to permit examiners 
appointed by the Board to examine FCDI, and 
(b) to furnish the Board with such reports as 
it may require from time to time; 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
FCDI be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if FCDI were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act; and 
(4) That FCIFC shall not carry on its books the 
shares of FCDI at a net amount in excess of its 
proportionate share of the book capital accounts 
of FCDI, after giving effect to the elimination 
of all known losses. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (3.) 
the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions on holdings of stock acquired in accor-
dance with the second sentence of the first paragraph of this letter. 
The Board also grants consent for FCIFC to continue to hold 
the stock of FCDI after FCDI issues up to $25,000,000 of obligations 
Wltli maturities in excess of one year, provided that the aggregate of 
Such obligations of FCIFC and its subsidiaries not exceed the statutory 
limitation [12 U 0S 0C. 615(a)] and that all assets and liabilities of 
shall be reflected in consolidated financial statements of its 
Parent institutions filed with federal bank regulatory authorities, or 
issued to the public. 
The Board does not consider it appropriate to waive the pro-
Vasions of Section 211.9(c) for domestic subsidiaries such as FCDI, 
^hj.ch is a device for the holding of stocks for an Edge Corporation* 
It should be noted that certain guaranties of FCDI's ob-
JRations could result in the obligations being direct primary ob-
ligations of banking institutions and payable in the United States, 
^hich would make them "deposits" under Sections 204.1(f) of Regu-
lation D and 21701(f) of Regulation Q. (See Federal Reserve Bulletin 
February 1970, page 140.) 

First Chicago International 
-3-
Finance Corporation 
The foregoing consents are given on the condition that 
the investments will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint 
Guidelines as they apply to The First National Bank of Chicago and 
its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L. Carmichael, 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

f _ 1 8 6 2 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 12 
5/24/73 
ATLANTIC BANCORPORATION 
Order Granting Request for Reconsideration 
Atlantic Bancorporation, Jacksonville, Florida, has requested 
Consideration of the Order of November 22, 1972, whereby the Board 
°f Governors denied the application of Atlantic Bancorporation for 
prior approval for the acquisition of not less than 80 per cent of 
voting shares of Bank of New Smyrna, New Smyrna Beach, Florida 
( Bank"), pursuant to section 3(a)(3) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
0 f l956, as amended (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)). 
This Request for Reconsideration is filed pursuant to 
Section 262.3(g)(5) of the Board's Rules of Procedure which provides 
the Board will not grant any request for reconsideration "unless 
tk 
e request presents relevant facts that, for good cause shown, were 
not n 
Previously presented to the Board, or unless it otherwise appears 
0 
Board that reconsideration would be appropriate." 
The Board has considered the material submitted in 
Appij 
*-cant s Request for Reconsideration and finds that it presents 
1 
evant facts that, for good cause shown, were not previously pre-
yed to the Board, and reconsideration otherwise appears appropriate. 
Cor<Hngly, the Request for Reconsideration is hereby approved. 
Comments and views regarding the proposed acquisition may 
with the Board not later than June 15, 1973. 
Communications 

18G3 
should be addressed to the Secretary, Board of Governors of the Federal 
Reserve System, Washington, D, C. 20551. The application, as supple-
mented by Applicant's Request for Reconsideration, may be inspected at 
the office of the Board of Governors or at the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Atlanta. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 24, 1973. 
(Signed) Elizabeth L. Carmichael 
Elizabeth L, Carmichael 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
i/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, 
heehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and 
Uaane. 
