MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
May 16, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 7 Monetary policy actions. 

1671 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Wednesday, May 16, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Mcintosh, Director, Division of Federal 
Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Gardner, Assistant General Counsel 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Assistant Adviser, Division of Research 
and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Hersey, Senior Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Gemmill, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
V 
Entered at point indicated in minutes. 

±676 
5/16/73 
-2-
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of Inter-
national Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to the recommendation of the 
Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities in a memorandum of May 11, 
1973, the Board unanimously approved the Interdistrict Transportation 
System budget for the second half of 1973. Attached as Item No. 1 is 
a copy of the telegram sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago in 
this connection. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal Division in a 
memorandum of May 10, 1973, the Board denied a request filed on behalf 
of protesting banks that a hearing be held with respect to the applica-
tions of Diversified Mountaineer Corporation, Charleston, West Virginia, 
to become a bank holding company and to retain certain nonbanking subsid 
iaries. Attached as Items 2 and 3 are copies of letters informing the 
applicant and counsel for the protesting banks that a hearing will not 
be held but inviting written comments. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Legal Division in a memo-
randum of May 8, 1973, the Board unanimously approved the sending of 
letters to the Chairmen of the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing, 

1«73 
5/16/73 
- 3 -
and Urban Affairs and the House Committee on Banking and Currency 
regarding the legislative recommendations contained in the Board's 
1972 Annual Report with respect to (1) lending authority of Federal 
Reserve Banks; (2) purchase of obligations of foreign governments 
by Federal Reserve Banks; (3) interlocking bank relationships; and 
(A) bank investments for community development. (Transmittal of 
the letters was deferred pending completion of letters and draft 
bills relating to other legislative recommendations.) 
The Board unanimously approved a recommendation by Mr. O'Connell 
in a memorandum of May 9, 1973, that certain insurance applications 
on which the Board had ordered hearings to be conducted be processed 
without a hearing, since objecting parties have withdrawn their objec-
tions on agreement of applicants to limit their proposed activities. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Mercantile 
Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, to acquire shares of The 
Citizens National Bank, Laurel, Maryland, and authorized issuance of 
an order reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of R. R. Donnelley 
& Sons Company, Chicago, Illinois, for an exemption from the restric-
tions on nonbanking activities in the Bank Holding Company Act, and 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy is 
attached as Item No. 5. 

1674 
5/16/73 
-4-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Third 
National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to John W. Murphree Company, also of Nashville, 
and thereby to engage in mortgage banking and permissible insurance 
agency activities. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflect-
ing this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 6. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on April 23, 1973, of the application of First Piedmont Corporation, 
Greenville, South Carolina, to acquire shares of First Palmetto State 
Bank and Trust Company, Columbia, South Carolina. A copy of the order 
is attached under Item No. 7, along with a copy of the dissenting 
statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
on April 26, 1973, of the application of American Fletcher Corporation, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, to acquire the assets of several shoppers 
charge service organizations, each being a subsidiary of and together 
constituting the credit card operations of Economy Finance Corpora-
tion, also of Indianapolis. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 8. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
°n April 26, 1973, of the application of First Security Corporation, 
Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of First Security Bank of Logan, 

1675 
5/16/73 
-5-
National Association, Logan, Utah, a proposed new bank. A copy of 
the order is attached under Item No. 9, along with a copy of the 
dissenting statement of Governor Robertson. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns then joined the meeting. 
Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland)« 
By letter of July 12, 
1972, the Board informed The Chase Manhattan Bank (National Associa-
tion), New York, New York, that it would not approve that bank's 
request to make an additional investment in its wholly-owned subsidiary, 
Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland), unless the parent bank gave a firm 
commitment that information adequate for the needs of U.S. supervisors 
would be maintained within the bank or would be otherwise available 
to examiners. In the course of ensuing negotiations, Chase Manhattan 
requested that the Board furnish a statement describing its informa-
tional requirements; Chase Manhattan would attempt to obtain agreement 
by Swiss authorities that such information might be provided. After 
discussions on April 16 and 19, 1973, the staff was requested to draft 
such a statement and a letter confirming the Board's position that 
aPproval of the investment would not be granted in the absence of a 
commitment regarding provision of information. Drafts of such a 
letter and statement were submitted by the Division of Supervision 
Qnd Regulation with a memorandum of May 14, 1973. 

±676 
5/16/73 
-6-
At today's meeting Governor Daane expressed the view that the 
information requested was excessive. He had reservations whether it 
was consistent with the conclusions of the task force that had studied 
the international operations of U.S. banks several years ago. He 
disliked to transmit such a statement without an opportunity for its 
review by Governor Mitchell, who was ill. The information specifica-
tions deserved careful consideration; they would apply not only to 
Chase Manhattan but presumably also to all other U.S. banks that had 
foreign subsidiaries. 
Discussion brought out that the information requirements were 
generally consistent with the task force study, and that there were 
circumstances of urgency that made it impractical to defer action for 
any length of time. There was agreement with a suggestion that a 
passage be added to the draft letter emphasizing the Board's awareness 
of the need for confidentiality. 
The letter and statement were unanimously approved in the form 
attached as Item No. 10. 
Deposit Guaranty Corpa 
In a memorandum of January 24, 1973, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended denial of the application of Deposit Guaranty Corp., 
Jackson, Mississippi, to acquire shares of Bridges Loan & Investment 
Company, Inc., also of Jackson. Other documentation included a memo-
randum of January 22, 1973, in which Mr. Leavitt recommended approval. 

3-t.l / / 
5/16/73 
-7-
The Board discussed the application at the meeting on March 29, and 
requested the staff to confer with Deposit Guaranty regarding the 
feasibility of requiring it to spin off the Jackson area portion of 
the mortgage portfolio of Bridges Loan & Investment Company as a 
condition to approval of the application. In a memorandum of May 9 
the Banking Markets Section reported that the applicant had contended 
that the spin-off could not be accomplished successfully without 
endangering the contractual relations between the Bridges company and 
its institutional investors<, The Section reiterated its recommenda-
tion of denial, and indicated that Mr. Leavitt continued to recommend 
approval. 
Discussion at today's meeting disclosed divergent views, and 
action was therefore deferred to a time when additional members of 
the Board could participate. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Monetary policy proposals. At the meetings on March 9 and 
April 4, 1973, the Board discussed proposals developed by the staff 
for possible monetary policy actions in a tight money environment. 
The Board had given the questions renewed attention on May 14 in the 
light of monetary and credit developments that appeared to point to 
the need for action. The proposals, modified in some respects from 
earlier versions, contemplated the following actions: 

1678 
5/16/73 
(1) Imposition of an 8 per cent marginal reserve require-
ment (the regular 5 per cent plus a supplemental 3 per 
cent) on further increases in the total of (a) out-
standing certificates of deposit of $100,000 and over 
issued by member banks, and on (b) outstanding funds 
obtained by a bank through issuance by an affiliate 
of obligations subject to the existing reserve require-
ment on time deposits. 
(2) Reduction from 20 per cent to 8 per cent of the reserve 
requirement on certain foreign borrowings of U.S. banks, 
primarily Euro-dollars, with a phase-out of the reserve-
free bases of such funds still held by some banks. 
(3) Suspension of interest rate ceilings under Regulation Q, 
Interest on Deposits, on certificates of deposit of 
$100,000 and over that mature in 90 days or more. 
(4) Publication for comment of a proposal to apply a 
5 per cent reserve requirement to funds raised by 
banks through sales of finance bills (sometimes 
called working capital acceptances); in addition, 
such funds would be part of the total obligations 
subject to the 8 per cent marginal reserve require-
ment. It was also proposed to publish an interpretation 
to the effect that the amount limitations in section 
13 of the Federal Reserve Act do not apply to finance 
acceptances. 
(5) Sending a letter to larger nonmember banks seeking to 
enlist their cooperation in the Board's efforts to 
deter credit expansion. 
Current documentation, relating to various aspects of the proposals, 
included memoranda of April 16, 1973, from the Division of Interna-
tional Finance; May 10 from the Divisions of Research and Statistics 
and International Finance; May 4, 11, and 15 from the Legal Division; 
a draft letter to large nonmember banks; and a draft press release. 

1679 
5/16/73 
-9-
Discussion at today's meeting reflected general acceptance 
of the staff proposals. One substantive point was resolved, namely, 
the cut-off for exemption from the marginal reserve requirement on 
increases in large CD's. The staff suggested consideration of an 
exemption from the marginal reserve requirement of an amount outstand-
ing of less than $10 million, under which the additional requirement 
would apply to approximately 350 banks, or a cut-off of $25 million, 
under which about 200 banks would be subject to the additional require-
ment. The Board chose the $10 million cut-off. 
It was brought out that after the discussion on May 14 the 
staff had consulted with other supervisory authorities, as required 
by 
statute, regarding the proposal to suspend interest rate ceilings 
°n large CD's of longer maturities and had encountered no objection. 
At the meeting on April 4, 1973, Governor Daane had not been in favor 
of suspending these interest rate ceilings. At today's meeting he 
said he would vote for the action, in the light of the other measures 
being taken. 
There was agreement upon a number of revisions in the draft 
press release and draft letter to large nonmember banks. It was 
understood that a new draft of the letter would be prepared for 
consideration later today. 
The meeting then recessed and reconvened in the Board Room 
a t 3:00 p.m., with Chairman Burns and Governors Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, 

1680 
5/16/73 
-10-
and Bucher present and substantially the same staff attendance as at 
the end of the morning session. 
Discussion turned principally on questions of timing of 
announcement and procedure, such as courtesy informational calls to 
other Government agencies, State bank supervisors, and Congressional 
leaders. Further changes were made in the draft letter to nonmember 
banks. The staff reported on current developments in financial markets. 
The Board unanimously approved the staff proposals, those 
relating to reserve requirements being implemented through amendments 
to Regulation D, Reserves of Member Banks, and Regulation M, Foreign 
Activities of National Banks, and that relating to interest rate 
ceilings through an amendment to Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. 
The Board also unanimously approved the press release announcing the 
actions. Attached under Item No. 11 is a copy of the press release, 
accompanied by Federal Register notices regarding the amendments to 
the regulations. The effective dates of the amendments are indicated 
in the notices. Also attached to the press release are copies of the 
invitation for comments on the proposal to apply reserve requirements 
to finance bills, the interpretation with respect to the inapplicabi-
lity of the amount limitations of section 13 of the Federal Reserve 
A ct to finance bills ("ineligible acceptances"), and the letter 
Sent to large nonmember banks. Attached as Item No. 12 is a copy of 

5/16/73 
- 1 1 -
a letter sent to Mr. Donald E. Pearson, Superintendent of Banks for 
the State of California and President, Conference of State Bank 
Supervisors. Attached as Item No. 13 is a copy of a letter sent to 
all State bank supervisors. Another letter was subsequently sent to 
the State bank supervisors in the form attached as Item No. 14. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

n m m 
T E L E G R 
A M 
L E A S E D WIRE 
S E R V I C E 
IG^Ic. 
BOARD OF7 GOVERNORS OF THE F E D E R A L RESERVE SYSTEM Item No. 1 
W A S H I N G T O N 
5/16/73 
May 16, 1973 
Mayo - Chicago 
^ e Board has reviewed and accepts the budget of the Interdistrict 
Transportation System for the period July 1 - December 31, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 

°L9°iV *. 
fiifc 
^LRES^.*' 
B O A R D OF 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
. 1683 
Item No. 2 
5/16/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R C S P D N O E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B D A R O 
May 16, 1973 
Mr. T. R. Price, President 
Diversified Mountaineer Corporation 
3624 MacCorkle Avenue Southeast 
Charleston, West Virginia 25304 
Dear Mr. Price: 
Enclosed please find a copy of a letter which the Board 
has received commenting adversely on your proposed formation of a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 85 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of First National Bank of South Charleston, 
South Charleston, West Virginia, and retention of certain non-
banking subsidiaries. 
The Board has considered the request for a hearing and 
concluded that the issues raised are not such that a formal hearing 
would be required or be useful in their resolution. However, the 
Board has decided to proceed on the basis of written comments and, 
lri this connection, has invited the objectors to submit elabora-
tions of their previous comments, additional comments, and 
supportive written evidence as may aid the Board in considering 
the subject applications. 
In the interest of fairness, the Board extends to you a 
Slnii.lar opportunity to comment on the materials presented to the 
Board. We have asked the protestants to furnish you with copies 
°f their writ ten communications to the Board and ask that you 
extend them a similar courtesy to expedite disposition of this 
matter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
•Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

1684 
B D A R D • F G G V E R N D R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
• F 
T H E 
Item No. 3 
5/16/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
n O R R E l i P O f J D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
D D A H U 
May 16, 1973 
REGISTER}',!) 
RETUM RECEIPT REQUESTED 
paul N. Bowles, Esq. 
Stone, Bowles, Kauffelt & McDavid 
National Bank of Commerce Building 
Charleston, West Virginia 25325 
ftear Mr. Bowles: 
This is in response to your request that the Board order 
a formal hearing to consider the applications of Diversified 
Mountaineer Corporation, Charleston, West Virginia, to become a 
bank holding company through the acquisition of 85 per cent or more 
°f the voting shares of First National Bank of South Charleston, 
South Charleston, West Virginia, and to retain certain nonbanking 
3ubsid iaries. 
The Board has considered your request, but has concluded 
that the issues you raise are not such that a formal hearing would 
be required or useful for their resolution. The Board, instead, 
has decided to proceed on the basis of written comments. There-
fore, you are invited to submit any elaboration of your previous 
contentions, additional comments, and supportive evidence that may 
aid the Board in passing upon the subject applications. After 
receipt of your request, the Board and the Reserve Bank of Richmond 
have received letters from some members of the West Virginia Bankers 
Association advising that the representations made in your letter 
do not reflect their views. Include in your elaborations a listing 
those aggrieved parties that are represented by your law firm. 
Such written materials should be received no later than 10 days 
after receipt of this letter. 
In the interest of fairness, and in order to expedite 
disposition of this matter, the Board requests that copies of any 
additional materials or written communications submitted to the 

Paul N. Bowles, Esq. 
-2-
Board be simultaneously furnished to Mr. T. R. Price, President, 
Dj versified Mountaineer Corporation, 3624 MacCorkle Avenue, 
Southeast, Charleston, West Virginia 25304, of whom we are 
making a similar request. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

_ 1 6 8 8 
FEDERAL RESEftvfe SYSTEM 
I t e m No« 4 
5/16/73 
MERCANTILE BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Mercantile Bankshares Corporation, Baltimore, Maryland, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
A c t , has applied for the Board's approval under section 3(a)(3) of 
t h e A c t (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of 
fch 
e voting shares of The Citizens National Bank, Laurel, Maryland 
("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accord-
atlce with section 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
V i e W S h a s expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
a n 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in section 3(c) 
0 f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls seven banks with deposits of $368 million, 
resenting approximately 6 per cent of aggregate deposits of commer-
i a i banks in Maryland. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, 
reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
thr 
°ugh April 30, 1973.) Upon the acquisition of Bank, with deposits 
of $ 5 5 
Million, Applicant would continue to rank as the sixth largest 
ankl-ng organization in the State. 

i 
- 2 -
±687 
Applicant's present subsidiary banks and Bank compete both in 
Washington, D.C. and Baltimore, Maryland banking markets. The pro-
Posed acquisition would increase Applicant's control of deposits in the 
^shington market from 0.3 to less than 1 per cent, and in the Baltimore 
arket from 6.5 to less than 7.0 per cent. Bank is the eighth largest 
11 banking organizations (including the State's four largest) which 
Serve sections of four Maryland Counties. Applicant operates no offices 
j^j. II 
Bank's service area, but a limited amount of competition exists be-
tl,Gen Bar*k and Applicant's lead bank in Baltimore and Applicant's sub-
B j J , 
l a ry bank located in Bowie. Applicant's two closest offices, the 
^owie branches, are located approximately nine miles south of 
s Montpelier office. Overall competition between the offices 
ank and Applicant's subsidiaries is minimal because of the large 
nseiy populated areas encompassed by the two markets, the large 
^ber of intervening banking offices, and commuting patterns. 
Affii. 
nation with Applicant would enable Bank to compete more effec-
^•i v 
ely with the larger area banks, and it appears that consummation 
of th 
e Proposal would eliminate only a slight amount of existing or 
Poter*tial competition. 
The financial and mrnagerial resources of Applicant are 
factory and its prospects appear favorable. The financial 
Managerial resources and prospects of Bank are generally satis-
tory. Affiliation with Applicant could, however, improve Bank's 
a b U i t 
cy to recruit and train additional personnel and these 

considerations lend some weight toward applrbvkl; Applicant proposes 
to Provide Bank with necessary resources to increase its lending 
caPacity, to upgrade its existing banking services, and to introduce 
services including new consumer savings programs, prearranged 
Unes of credit for consumers, trust services, computer services, 
construction loan capabilities and business money management pro-
grams, This proposed affiliation would provide local residents with 
another full service banking alternative, and considerations relating 
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are con-
sistent with and lend support toward approval of the application. 
X t is the Board's judgment that consummation of the proposed trans-
ition would be in the public interest and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
t h e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
0 r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated 
authority., 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective Hay 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
~Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Noting for""this action: Governors Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and 
Bucher. 
Absent and not voting: 
Chairman Rurno and Governor Mitchell. 

1689 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEI1 
Item No0 5 
5/16/73 
R.R» DONNELLEY & SONS COUPAMY 
Order Approving Exemption of Nonbanking Activities of 
Bank Holding Company 
R.P.* Donnelley & Sons Company, Chicago, Illinois, a 
^ 
llQlding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding 
p a ny Act of 1956 by virtue of ownership of 69 per cent of 
voting shares of Lakeside Bank (i!Bank,:), Chicago, Illinois, 
s applied to the Board of Governors, pursuant to § 4(d) of 
Act (12 u.S.C. 1843(d)), for an exemption from the prohibi-
o f § 4 of the Act (relating to interests on organizations' 
n K lng activities and acquisitions). 
Notice of receipt of the application was published in the 
r al Register on February 22, 1973 (38 Federal Register 4818). 
Hirie f n 
£° r filing comments and views has expired. 
No request 
£c>t 
a hearing has been received. 
Section 4(d) of the Act provides that to the extent such 
n Would not be substantially at variance with the purposes 
0 5 th 
G Act and subject to such conditions as the Board considers 
S a r Y to protect the public interest, the Board may grant an 
x° n from the provisions of f> 4 of the Act to certain one-
n°lding companies in order (1) to avoid disrupting business 
unships that have existed over a long period of years 
% 
u t adversely affecting the banks or the communities involved, 
(2\ 
' to avoid forced sales of small locally owned banks to 

1690 
- 2 -
^chasers not similarly representative of community interests, 
' to allow retention of banks that are so small in relation 
^he holding company's total interests and so small in 
to 
the banking market to be served as to minimize the 
•^elihood 
the bank's power to grant or deny credit may 
influenced by a desire to further the holding company's other 
C r e s t s . 
The Board has considered the application and all comments 
Sceived in the light of factors set forth in § 4(d) of the 
Act 
finds that: 
tt-R. Donnelley & Sons Company conducts a commercial 
l ng business on a national basis and is the largest com-
Printer in the United States. Its corporate headquarters, 
nciPal sales office, and largest printing operation are 
loCateri • 
u m the Wear South Side Area of Chicago; Applicant also 
li 
°ther printing establishments and four regional sales 
in the United States. 
Applicant states its interest in Bank stemmed from 
^Pli 
Ca^t's desire to assist in establishing a banking facility 
°*imity to its corporate headquarters and printing plant. 
Bank's organization, there were no banking facilities 
th 
e immediate area of Applicant's Chicago operations. 
^Plic antr as the laraest commercial, employer ana a substantial 

1691 
-3-
lnvestor in the Near South Side Area, joined with four other 
ln3ividuals having interests in the area to organize Bank in 
Applicant subscribed for and purchased 70.5 per cent of 
initial capital stocki./ and has continued to control 
^Proximately 70 per cent of Bank's voting shares. 
Applicant has maintained substantial demand deposit 
b
a W s 
at Bank and as of July 20, 1972 almost 20 per cent of 
v s deposit accounts were held by Applicant's employees. 
Bank 
appears to be well managed and in sound financial condition 
a e record contains nothing to suggest that permitting 
s affiliation with Applicant to continue indefinitely will 
ersely affect either the Bank or the community to be served, 
bank's total assets were $27.9 million at year end 1971 
applicant's total consolidated assets were $303 million;!/ 
^ n k « q 
net income for the year ending December 31, 1971 was 
1:0 • 3 per cent of Applicant's net income. Applicant's 
borrowing at year end 1971 was $4.5 million while Bank has 
g a l landing limit to an individual customer of approximately 
$20o n 
It appears that Applicant has never borrowed from 
sought preferential treatment from Bank for Applicant's 
r s or customers. 
' s sale of shares to new directors and Bank's 
^cenrt :nt re<lnced Applicant's ownership to 69 per cent as of 
2/ & 
31, 1972. 
n t carries its investment in Bank at underlying book 

_ 1 6 9 * 2 
- 4 -
Bank, with deposits of $25.7 million as of December 31, 
l97i ' c ompetes in the Chicago banking market and controls .1 per 
n-F 
market deposits. 
Based on deposits, Bank ranks as the 
largest of 261 banks in the Chicago market. 
has 
The record contains nothing to suggest that /applicant 
misused Bank's services for the benefit of its other 
te£ests and, in view of the size disparity between Bank and 
^Pplic^. 
d n t» and the small size of Bank in relation to the 
Ur*ding banking market and to the credit needs of Applicant, 
f U t U r e m . 
•misuse of Bank by Applicant seems unlikely. 
Based on the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in th 
* e r ecord, the Board has concluded, pursuant to 5 4(d)(3), 
is so small in relation to the total interests of 
cant and so small in relation to the banking market served 
as to minimize the likelihood that Bank's powers to 
deny credit may be influenced by a desire to further 
^PXican4. . 
a nt s other interests; and an exemption is warranted. 
A c c°tdin 
n91y, an exemption is granted; provided, however, that 
tlUs d 
^termination is subject to revocation if the facts upon 
v'hi<* it- • 
4*x- is based change in any material respect. 
BV order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective Hay 16, 1973 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
r^ 
f o r t h i s action: Governors Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan 
r- 
Absent and not voting-. Chairman Burns and 
Mitchell. 

1693 
FEDEftAt RESERVE SYSTEM 
item No. 6 
5/16/73 
THIRD NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of John W. llurphree Company 
Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank hold-
i n8 company within the meaning of the 3ank Holding Company Act, has 
Applied for the Board's approval under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting 
a W e 3 of the successor by merger to John W. Murphree Company, Nashville, 
lessee ("Company")» a company that proposes to engage in the activities 
w 
making or acquiring for its own account or for the account of 
real estate mortgage loans and servicing such loans; and (2) act-
& as an insurance agent or broker with respect to insurance that is 
lr^ctly related to an extension of credit or provision of other finan-
cial 
services by Company. Such activities have been determined by the 
closely related to the business of banking (12 CFR 
2 2 5^(a)(l)( 3) atld ( 9)) # 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
^ r S O t l s t o submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
d uly published (38 Federal Register 8695). A comment with respect 
to the 
request for approval of the sale of homeowners insurance was re-
vived f 
trom the Tennessee State Commissioner of Insurance. 
Subsequently, 
^PPlic 
at*t withdrew that portion of Its request for prior approval relat-
ing to l-V, 
c»e sale of homeowners insurance and has assured the Board that 
Q 
mPany*s S a l e o f i l i g u r a n c e w i l l b e confined solely to that which is 
Elated 
Q co extensions of credit. The time for filing comments and views 

_ 1694 
h a s exPited, and the Board has considered all comments received in the 
Xi8ht of the public interest factors set forth in § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
( l 2 U.S.C. 1843(c)). 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits approxi-
mating $712 million, representing 7.8 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
i n Tennessee. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) Through its 
banking subsidiaries, Applicant is engaged in consumer finance lending, 
a S i n ° o f personal property and equipment, the operation of a Small 
S i n G S S investment Corporation, and the operation of a mobile home 
rv3-cing company. In addition, each of Applicant's banking subsidiaries 
n Nashvilie9 Lawrenceville, Cleveland, and Knoxville, originate loans 
S e° U r e d by real property. 
Company was incorporated in 1965 as the Murphree Real Estate 
Compatlv 
to engage in the activity of real estate development. Its 
Present 
u assets approximate $573 thousand, and substantially all of its 
*evenue -r 
—^ 
is derived from the construction and sale of houses.~ However, 
Co 
m P a n y i s 
in the process of liquidating all of its interests in the 
est t e development field and has assured the Board that, upon con-
aurnmati n o f t he proposed acquisition, its activity will be confined 
usively to mortgage banking and related insurance agency activities. 
C°mPanv d 
y noes not now engage in mortgage banking, although its president 
®° a r d has previously determined that land development is not a 
i 
r c t i v i f cy f o r bank holding companies. See application of U.B. 
Ati*on 
/ C o r p < >> Phoenix, Arizona, to retain H. S. Pickerell, Phoenix, 
l a (37 Federal Register 6794). 

I 
-3. 
1695 
°rganized a mortgage company in 1945 and operated it unt:il the time of 
it{3 sale in 1966. Thus Applicant proposes, in effect, to acquire a de 
mortgage company operation with management of proven competence. 
Since Company does not presently engage in the activities of 
a mortgage company, it does not compete with any of Applicant's banking 
R-il 
> - « 
Gdiaries, and no existing competition would be eliminated upon con-
N a t i o n of the propose!. Moreover, the facts of record indicate there 
is 1 
i-ttle likelihood that a significant degree of competition between 
C°mpany and Applicant's banking subsidiaries would develop in the future. 
ftoard concludes that the competitive considerations are consistent 
W l t h aPP*oval of the application. 
It is anticipated that Company's affiliation with Applicant, 
^ providing access to the greater financial resources of Applicant, will 
n a b l ° Company to offer effective competition to the other mortgage 
lenderQ • 
r s in the area in which it proposes to operate. There is no evidence 
in th<a 
record indicating that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
result in undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
n^Hcts of interests, unsound banking practices, or other adverse 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
G record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public inter-
factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable, 
Object 
uSly> the application is hereby approved. This determination is 
to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to 

-4-
t h e B°ardfs authority to require such modification or termination of the 
activities of a holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board 
finds necessary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes 
he Act and the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder or 
t o Prevent evasion thereof, 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective May 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Absent " V ° r t h l s a c t i o n J 
Governors Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 
and not voting? 
Chairman Burns and Governor Mitchell. 

1637 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 7 
5/16/73 
FIlteT PIEDMONT CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Piedmont Corporation, Greenville, South Carolina, a bank 
folding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPPlied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
l8^2(a)(3)) t o a Cq Ui re 9.5 per cent of the voting shares of First Pal-
m e t t 0 State Bank and Trust Company, Columbia, South Carolina ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
peisons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
^ 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
^ e Board has considered the application and all comments received in 
I l s h t 
the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant's one present banking subsidiary, which has its head 
office and two branches in Greenville, South Carolina, has deposits of 
$27 •, 
million representing less than 1 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
11 south Carolina. (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) The 
accUiiSition o f s h a r e s o f B a n k would n o t affect the concentration of bank-
in£ resources in the State. 
Bank ($8.2 million of deposits), organized in February, 1971, 
l s the ninth largest of eleven banks competing in the relevant market 
a r e a (approximated by the Columbia SMSA) and holds only 1.6 per cent of 
th 
e Market deposits. Among those banks competing with Bank are five of 
tlle la*"gest in the State. Applicant's only subsidiary bank is located 
i n a separate market area, approximately 100 miles southeast of Greenville. 

- 2 -
16«J8 
This application presents the Board with a situation in which, 
rather than acquiring control, Applicant is making a relatively small, 
n°ncontroiling Investment in Bank. Both Applicant and Bank are relatively 
young institutions. Applicant has indicated that it cannot presently 
offer to purchase all of Bank's shares as the assumption of additional 
for the acquisition would not be financially prudent for Applicant 
a t this time. Acquisition through exchange of the additional shares 
Pessary to control Bank would result in an unacceptable level of dilu-
t i o n 
Applicant's current earnings per share. Applicant's stated pur-
P° S e 
acquiring the 9.5 per cent interest in Bank is to expose the 
N a t i o n s of the holding company to the management and directors of Bank 
in 
anticiPation that Bank's management will recommend to their stock-
holders at some future date that the holding company acquire control of 
Earik. 
An acquisition of less than a controlling interest is not a 
n°rrnal acquisition for a bank holding company. However, the Bank Holding 
° m p a ny Act authorizes investments-of up to: 5f per cent-without Board 
aPProvals and, by requiring prior Board approval for the acquisition of more 
tllan 5 per cent of the voting shares of a bank, clearly contemplates 
inv 
Gstments between 5 and 25 per cent. Furthermore, as mentioned above, 
thi 
s proposal represents the first step in Applicant's planned acquisition 
°f control. 
The Board believes, however, that such proposals must be care-
•F 
y examined to ensure that they do not serve the private interests of 

. 1699 
CG^tain shareholders to the undue disadvantage of others. The major 
concern raised in this regard is whether the proposal is consistent with 
tlle B°ardfs policy requiring applicants to make substantially equivalent 
offers to all shareholders of a bank. That policy is, in general, based 
° n a concern that a controlling holding company can use its position to 
j » 
V e r t earnings to the holding company in forms other than dividends. This 
other possible disadvantages to minority shareholders could adversely 
afr 
G ct the ability of small banks to raise capital if bank stock purchasers 
G t e aware that a holding company could purchase mere control. The Board 
eSards control over a bank's assets and earnings as a corporate asset be-
g g i n g to all shareholders of the bank. Where, as here, control over 
assets and earnings is not acquired, the reasons for the Board's 
Policy do not apply. Furthermore, at such time as Applicant comes in to 
Purchase control, the Board can examine the total situation to ensure that 
shareholders have not been unduly disadvantaged. 
With respect to the other considerations involved in the Board's 
Deration on this application, the proposal would not be objectionable 
W e r e it to be considered an acquisition of control. There is no 
csent competition between any of Applicant's subsidiaries and Bank. 
Fur th 
"ermore, it appears unlikely that any significant competition would 
V e l o P In the future due to the distances separating the banking offices 
and th 
lle fact that both institutions are relatively new. The Board con-
clude 
s that consummation of the proposal would not eliminate existing or 
ter*tial competition, nor would it have adverse effects on any competing 

: r ^ o o 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial resources 
and future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries, and Bank are satis-
factory and consistent with approval of the application. Major banking 
needs i n the area are being met. However, association of Bank with 
Applicant could provide it with more ready access tc services which might 
make Bank more competitive with the other organizations serving the rele-
V a n t market. In addition, the proposed transaction is the first step in 
a n acquisition that should ultimately improve the structure of banking in 
S°uth Carolina.-7 Therefore, considerations relating to the convenience 
and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with approval. 
X t is the Board's judgment that the proposed transaction would be in the 
Public interest, and that the application should be approved. 
Applicant controls four nonbanking subsidiaries, Equipment Leas-
ing Corporation of South Carolina, The Falco Corporation, Computer Re-
c c e s , Inc., and First Piedmont Travel, Inc., which, under the 1970 
Amendments, are subject to divestiture prior to December 31, 1980, if Board 
approval for retention is not obtained. Equipment Leasing Corporation of 
South Carolina and The Falco Corporation are both engaged in equipment 
and vehicle leasing. Computer Resources, Inc. provides electronic data 
pr°cessing, and First Piedmont Travel, Inc. is a travel agency. In addi-
tl°n to activities carried on through subsidiaries, Applicant directly 
(through its First Piedmont Management Group) is engaged in the activity 
°f management consulting. This service was Inaugurated between June 30, 
l 9 68 and December 31, 1970. 
largest banking organizations in South Carolina control 53 per 
the State's commercial bank deposits. The proposed acquisition 
®nould ultimately result in the creation of a multi-bank holding which 
*nould make the State's existing banking structure more competitive. 

-5-
1701 
In approving this application, the Board finds that the combina-
tion of a 9.5 per cent interest in an additional bank with Applicant's 
listing nonbanking subsidiaries is unlikely to have an adverse effect upon 
L n e public 
interest at the present time. Kowever, Applicant's banking and 
Nonbanking activities remain subject to 3oard review and the Board retains 
fcL 
e authority to require Applicant to modify or terminate its nonbanking 
activities 
or holdings if the Board at any time determines that the com-
bination of Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities is likely to have 
a d v e r s e effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Ord e r or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Ofd 
er> unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 16, 1973.— 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Baane, Sheehan, 
Bucher. Voting against this action: Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
S e nt and not voting: Governor Mitchell. 
3/ fioard action was taken while Governor Robertson was a Board Member. 

1702 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR^ ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
~ 
The Board's Order approving this application is based on a 
Setious—and potentially adverse—misconception of the nature and purposes 
of a bank holding company. The Senate Committee on Banking and Currency, 
Wllen reporting out its version of the original Bank Holding Company Act in 
l956,stated: "In general, the philosophy of this bill is that bank hold-
ing companies ought to confine their activities to the management and con-
tr°l of banks and that such activities should be conducted in a manner 
insistent with the public interest." Under the Board's own reading of 
th r 
G facts in this case, a controlling interest is not being acquired by 
applicant. That being the case, the majority should recognize that the 
activity is purely a financial investment and as such is not an appropriate 
activity for the holding company. 
In our opinion, the Board's failure to treat the activity in 
thi 
s Mannar creates substantial possibilities that the interests of other 
beholders of Bank will be harmed. More importantly, it represents a 
eVersal of a position to which the Board previously attached considerable 
it 
•portance. In fact, when the Bank Holding Company Act Amendments were 
be j »-> 
nS considered in 1970, the Board asked for—and Congress granted—au-
thor^ 
:y to prevent the domination of banks by firms which own more than 
p e r cent but less than 25 per cent of the Bank's stock. By approving 
thi 
s application, the Board is using this authority for a purpose exactly 
tf)p 
°PPosite of that anticipated at the time the 1970 amendments were 
Passed. 
The majority states that the fact that any future acquisition 
shares requires the Board's approval protects the other shareholders 

1703 
-2-
o f the Eank since the Board can examine the equity of the situation at 
that time. While this is true, it overlooks the fact that Applicant, by 
acquiring about 10 per cent of the Bank's stock, virtually eliminates Bank 
an acquisition candidate for any other holding company and thus deprives 
e other shareholders of a corporate opportunity properly belonging to all 
o f them, it is obvious that any other holding company would want to acquire 
over eighty per cent of the oustanding stock in order to be assured of the 
a x benefits of consolidation. Applicant's posture of purchasing the Bank 
the installment plan would prevent such assurance. While the majority 
statement looks forward to the supposed benefits of Applicant's eventual 
Ccluisition, i n reality Applicant has acquired an option at the expense 
of tv 
e other shareholders. This option can be exercised or not depending 
011 later market conditions. 
As already indicated, the Board asked Congress for power to find 
OOnf-ol 
1 in situations where the company controlled less than 25 per cent 
of 
e voting stock because it felt such power was necessary to prevent 
eVasion 
n s of the Act and the Board's regulations. However, rather than 
i n& that power, the Board now finds that no control exists and therefore 
the rGasons for the Board's equal offer policy do not apply. As discussed 
above » such a finding clearly works to the disadvantage of the other share-
holders„ 
In support of the application, the Board concludes that it is the 
first 
c Qtep i n an acquisition that will ultimately improve the structure of 
2 in South Carolina. Such conjectural benefits—dependent solely on 

_ 1704 
- 3 -
APPlicant's future wishes—do not outweigh the present adverse effects on 
°tb.er shareholders. If Applicant cannot presently afford the acquisition 
of 
a controlling interest in Bank, it should'.not be allowed .to acquire any 
p f the Bank's stock.., We would deny the application. 
Governor Brimraer also would deny for the reasons set forth in 
his Dissenting Statement in the matter of the Applications of First National 
C i ty Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire: 
(1) the successor by 
merger to The First Trust and Deposit Company of Oriskany Falls, Oriskany 
F a U s , New York; and (2) the successor by merger to the Central Valley 
National Bank, Central Valley, New York. 
(59 Federal Reserve Bulletin 114) 
% 
16, i 9 73 

1705 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 8 
5/16/73 
AMERICAN FLETCHER CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Credit Card Operations of 
Economy Finance Corporation, know.n as Shoppers 
Charge Service and Custom Services 
American Fletcher Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana, a 
batlk h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
^ct> has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) 
o f the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire 
a S S e t s o f Shoppers Charge Service, Inc. (Cincinnati), of Shoppers 
Ch 
a r g e Service, Inc0 (St. Louis), of Shoppers Charge Service, Inc. 
(Mi 
nnesota), of Houston Shoppers Charge Service, of the Shoppers 
h a r8e division of Indianapolis Morris Plan Corporation, and of the 
10 Services division of the Shoppers Charge division of Indiana-
P° l i s Morris Plan Corporation, each of which corporations (hereinafter 
e o l W . 
lively referred to as "Company") is a subsidiary of Economy 
a n c e Corporation, Indianapolis, Indiana. Company engages in the 
C i t i e s of issuing credit cards to individuals and purchasing 
Merchants, and servicing, the accounts receivable arising from 
ctedit 
, 
sales of merchandise to persons who use the credit cards in 
b a s i n g such merchandise. Such activities have been determined 
the 
Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for in-
ter ssted persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
fact0ro . 
4a» has been duly published (37 Federal Register 23755). The 

1706 
- I -
time for filing comments and views has expired; and the only response 
received was that of the Department of Justice. Briefly, the Department 
su8gests that the Board deny the application in view of Applicant's 
market position in the concentrated Indianapolis credit card market, 
discussed hereinafter, in the expectation that Company would then be 
acquired by a company that would compete with Applicant in that market. 
Applicant controls one bank with total deposits of $1.0 
Million, representing 8.4 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
banks in the State of Indiana.-^ Applicant's bank, American Fletcher 
National Bank and Trust Co., Indianapolis, Indiana ("Bank") is the 
Second largest bank in the Indianapolis banking market!^ and in 
lndiana, controlling 37,5 per cent of commercial bank deposits in 
e Indianapolis banking market. As a member of the Interbank System, 
Ba i is a franchised issuer of "Master Charge" credit cards and, as 
n> maintains 
agency agreements with 41 banks located in Indiana, 
nitle o f which are located in the Indianapolis banking market. 
Company engages in extending personal credit through credit 
Plans and the servicing and purchasing of merchants' receivables 
teated by the use of such credit cards. Company has five offices, 
each i n Cincinnati, Ohio; St. Louis, Missouri; Indianapolis, 
* 
, 
ana: Houston, Texas; and Minneapolis, Minnesota. Bank and Com-
Patly compete both for credit card holder and participating merchant 
fcankit 
°the 
e ^Posit and market data are as of June 30, 1972, unless 
2/ ^ i s e indicated. 
Indianapolis banking market is approximated by Marion County, 

_ 1707 
-3-
^usiness in the Indianapolis banking market. Bank is the largest 
credit card issuer in the market, with outstandings of $20.4 million, 
^counting f°r 
P e r c e n t o f total outstandings in that market 
a s of December 31, 1972. Of Company's total outstandings of $25.1 
m*Hion, only $1.2 million in outstandings derived from the Indiana-
P° l i s banking market as of June 30, 1972, where it is believed to 
be 
e the fifth largest of eight credit card issuers, based on outstand-
and accounts for 3.0 per cent of the total credit card outstand-
ings. 
The Board agrees with the Department of Justice that con-
^ation of the proposal would eliminate such competition as presently 
between Bank and Company in the credit card business in the 
^anapolis market; however, in the Board's opinion, the elimination 
Coi^Pany as an indepdent competitor in this market is not significant 
d ^ o n j , 
e Bank's dominant position in the market, since Company has not 
been an 
effective competitor in the Indianapolis market. Despite the 
fact thah 
at the past five years have been characterized by a substantial 
Btotyth j the use of credit cards, Company's outstandings derived from 
its 
^anapolis operations have declined more than 50 per cent from 
$2,5 
m i U i o n at year-end 1968 to $1.2 million as of June, 1972. The 
^°ard t-u 
fterefore concludes that no significant existing competition 
b e 
eliminated upon consummation of the proposed transactions, 
^ t h e r 
a 
, 
» lri the Board's opinion, approval of the proposed transaction 
V° u l d not K 
nave a significantly adverse effect on future competition 
sit*c« 
le it appears unlikely that Company would develop into a viable 

-4-
1708 
competitor in the Indianapolis market, absent affiliation with a com-
pany vith greater resources. There is evidence that, rather than 
incur the expense of seeking a purchaser, other than Applicant, Economy 
finance Corporation, the seller, would liquidate Company's Indianapolis 
assets, in which case the public benefits of the proposed transaction 
scribed below may be lost and, clearly Indianapolis Shoppers Charge 
cardholders would be adversely affected. It appears unlikely that 
another purchaser exists for Company, the acquisition not being 
Particularly attractive. There is no indication that purchasers, 
other t\an Applicant, exist and, if another purchaser does exist, 
it: would likely be another competitor of Company from one of the 
markets presently served by Company. 
Moreover, the slight anticompetitive effect that might 
result from approval of this proposal is outweighed in the public 
interest by other considerations. Since December 31, 1969, Company's 
°utstandlngs have dropped dramatically from $44.2 million to $25.1 
Million as of December 31, 1972 — a drop of 43.3 per cent. In that 
Applicant neither competes for credit card business in Minneapolis, 
H°uston, Cincinnati, or St. Louis, nor appears to be a potential entrant 
itlto any of those markets, consummation of the proposed transaction 
i s n°t likely to have any adverse effect on existing or future com-
in those markets. To the contrary, the proposed acquisition 
should 
have a favorable effect on competition in the five markets 
i n which Company operates. In Indianapolis, where Applicant has 

_ 1709 
assured the Board the Company's operations would be maintained 
^dependent of Bank's credit card operations, the continued viability 
fche Company would be ensured. In the other four markets, Appli-
Cant s utilization of its already-proven managerial expertise in the 
Credit card business should strengthen Company's weakened competitive 
abilities. Furthermore, effectuation of Applicant's planned de novo 
xPansion of Company's operations into new geographic markets is con-
Si d 
ered beneficial to the public interest in that Company would con-
stitut-
e an additional alternative source for credit card services 
those areas. In view of the foregoing, the Board does not share 
the 
e Department's view that the application should be denied. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
it\ the ro 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
erQst factors the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) 
favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. This 
ermination is subject to the conditions set forth in § 225.4(c) 
Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such modifica-
° r termination of the activities of a holding company or any of 
Subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure compliance 
*ith th 
e provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's regula-
tor^ and 
i 
orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective May 16, 1973r 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
f o r this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
Chairma 
e r' S h e e h a n > 
and Bucher. Absent and not voting: 
V Boq^ B u r n s a n d Governor Mitchell. 
action was taken while Vice Chairman Robertson was a Board Member. 

1710 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 9 
5/16/73 
FIRST SECURITY CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First Security Corporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
L 
a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.SoCc 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less direc-
t o r 8' qualifying shares) of First Security Bank of Logan, National 
A8aociation, Logan, Utah ("Bank"), a proposed new bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
tut 
tested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
V i e W a h a s expired, and the Board has considered the application and 
all comments received in the light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) 
0 f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls the largest bank in the State of Utah 
U d three other Utah banking subsidiaries and is the largest banking 
r8anisjation l n t h e S t a t e j c o n t r o i i i n g $620 million of deposits which 
ePtesent 28.9 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the 
St 
a t e* 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972.) 
In Cache County, where the proposed bank would operate, 
App i j 
^cant's lead banking subsidiary has four banking offices (one in 
city of Logan) with aggregate deposits of $31.4 million, repre-
l n8 39.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in that 
^ k e t area. Of the four other banks in the County (each of which has 
y 0 U e office there), three are located in the City of Logan. 

2-
1 
Since Bank is a proposed bank and the other Logan banks are 
Well established, consummation of the proposal would not eliminate 
listing competition; nor does there appear to be a likelihood that 
e8tablishment of a new bank would have an undue adverse effect on the 
° t h e r banks in the market. Furthermore, it appears unlikely that 
applicant's acquisition of Bank would preclude other banking organiza-
tion 
s from entering the market. On the basis of figures for the period 
the Logan area (Logan, Providence, Millville, North Logan 
n<1 River Heights) has been growing at a rate slightly faster than 
that- £ 
o t the State as a whole (21.0 per cent vs. 18.9 per cent). In 
th 
Northern portion of Logan, where Bank will be located, eight 
nufacturing plants and four shopping centers have been constructed 
C e i960 and increased business activity is expected as a result of 
t e c e n t zoning change. Any increase in the share of market deposits 
held h 
°y Applicant that might result in the short run following consum-
Riat* •{ of this proposal may be dissipated with the arrival of new 
a n t s to serve the expanding area; indeed, the record indicates 
that a K 
charter for a new bank to be located approximately ,7 mile 
South -c 
o f Bank's site was recently approved by the State Commissioner 
of j,. 
nancial Institutions. In the Board's view, the competitive factors 
in KL . 
3 case are distinguishable from those in a recent case involving 
Proposal to acquire a proposed new bank where the Board f<mnd that 

1712 
thp 
y 
ie applicant was dominant; 
in that case, at least one other bank in 
the area had not yet had sufficient time to establish Itself as a viable 
competitor, and the population of the relevant area had remained some-
Whnf- stable. Furthermore, the Board believes that the facts in the 
ipstant application are substantially similar to a proposal by Applicant 
to 
establish a new bank in Springville, Utah, which application was 
a 
U 
PProved by the Board in 1970.""* 
In brief, the Board believes that 
^summation of the proposal under consideration will not have such a 
siS^ificant adverse effect on potential competition in the Cache County 
m a r k e t a s to warrant denial. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant and the 
esent subsidiary banks are generally satisfactory; prospects of 
nk under Applicant's control appear favorable. The establishment 
fceuk will provide, through affiliation with Applicant, a convenient 
80UfCG £ 
o t a full range of banking services to the residents and busi-
nesses 
or northern Logan. Thus, banking factors, as well as considera-
118 relating to the convenience and needs of the communities to be 
Served 
u> are consistent with approval of the application. It is the 
^°ard'n judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
Uteres*. and that the application should be approved. 
at Orlando Corporation, 1973 Federal Reserve Bulletin, 302. 
^ 
^feSL-Securltv Corporation. 1970 Federal Reserve Bulletin, 952. 

4 
1713 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
e teacons summarized above0 The transaction shall not be consumm-
ated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective 
j 
6 °f this Order or (b) later than three months after that date, 
and ( c ) 
first Security Bank of Logan, National Association, shall be 
°Pened for business not later than six months after the effective date 
* this Order. Each of the periods described in (b) and (c) may be 
^tended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal Reserve Bank 
^ San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority, 
3/ 
4/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective May 16, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
°ting for this action: Governors Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan and 
at^j1 r* Dissenting from this action: Governor Robertson. Absent 
n°t voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Mitchell, 
4/ 
^ 
oard action was taken while Governor Robertson was a Board member, 

1714 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR ROBERTSON 
The Board's action today represents a wasted opportunity to 
provide for a lessening of concentration in the Cache County, Utah, 
inking market, and for that reason I dissent from the action. 
There are presently only eight banking offices in Cache 
County, f o u r o f Which belong to Applicant's lead bank. The three 
largest banking organizations in the market hold 87.6 per cent of the 
total deposits in the market and 85.6 per cent of demand deposits in 
^counts under $20,000 belonging to individuals, partnerships and 
c°rporation3. The area is not particularly attractive for new bank 
c 
°rmation, since the population for banking office ratio is only 
5>291 and the deposits per office ratio is $10 million.. The growth 
o f the northern portion of Logan during the period 1960-70 and the 
e*Pected growth in the future, a3 a result of recent zoning changes, 
offer one of the few opportunities for deconcentration of banking 
e8°urces i n the market to occur. 
On the basis of the facts of this case, by granting this 
Plication 
the Board may be depriving others of an opportunity to 
* n t er in the market. It is certainly true that the Board is enabling 
^PPlicant to retain (and possibly increase) the share of deposits in 
th 
e market that it holds. 
In voting to deny an application to establish a de novo 
bank 
T 
I would not want to deprive a community of a convenient source 
1 hanking resources that it may need. The facts of record do not 
uPPort a conclusion that there would be such a deprivation. Applicant 

a banking office 1.1 miles from the proposed site of Bank, and 
are three other banking offices on that stretch of property; 
bence, a s a SOUrce of depository and other routine banking services, 
Bank may represent a minimal convenience. With respect to specialized 
Se*vices, such as investment, trust and data processing services, it 
aPpears that customers of Bank will be referred to Applicant's other 
banking office in Logan; and, of course, this represents no added 
c°nvenience or additional service. Finally, other banking organiza-
tions may establish an office in that part of Logan, providing a 
°nVenient alternative source of banking services. 
X see no good reason to assist Applicant to maintain its 
I>0sition in this concentrated market. I much prefer to preserve 
°Pportunities for entry by less dominant banking organizations, es-» 
Pecialiy when it appears that such opportunities are likely to be 
nfrequent. Accordingly, I would deny this application. 
May 1 6, 1973 
hoi^j 
e i s a t l e a st one other banking organization*-*-a sizable bank 
86e, 
company««not presently represented in the market that is 
l n8 regulatory approval to enter the market. 

B O A R D D P G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20S51 
1716 
Item No. 10 
5/16/73 
m
m 
A D D R C S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R R C S P O N O t N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 17, 1973 
William S. Ogden 
Executive Vice President 
The Chase Manhattan Bank 
National Association 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10015 
D ear Mr„ Ogden: 
Your letter of March 26, 1973, refers to the earlier 
Request by your bank for permission to increase its investment in 
Chase Manhattan Bank (Switzerland), Geneva, Switzerland. 
The Board has again reviewed the question of information 
recJuired by U.S. bank supervisory authorities about the operations 
and activities of your Swiss subsidiary. According to the Board's 
Understanding, the management of your bank believes that there in-
national requirements, as previously outlined to you, cannot be 
because of the provisions of Article 273 of the Swiss Penal 
Cod G• 
You have represented to the Board that, in your opinion and 
J-n contrast to the situation under Article 47 of the Swiss Banking 
customers have no right to waive its provisions pertaining to 
1G disclosure of their affairs to foreign public and private or-
ganizations. 
As you are aware, the Board and other U.Se banking super-
visory authorities have statutory responsibilities to assure that 
^ember banks conduct their affairs in accordance with provisions of 
and in a sound and prudent manner. Those responsibilities extend 
the operations and activities of a bank no matter where conducted, 
^eluding its foreign branches and subsidiaries, since all rest on 
capital and senior management capabilities of the bank. The 
f Q - d accordingly believes that it is essential for a bank operating 
^ * e ign branches and subsidiaries to supervise those facilities from 
s bead office through systems of internal controls and flows of 
formation that will enable the bank at all. times to assess and to 
^i-rol exposure resulting from potential losses, insufficient 

• 
. 1717 
William S. Ogden 
-2-
^•quidity, and inadequate management. The Board further believes 
>at it is essential for U.S. bank supervisory authorities in the 
ercise of their statutory responsibilities to have access to the 
cords and information available to a bank's head office for this 
lax'POSi"° 
T h a t a c c e s s is> o f course, governed by the provisions of 
* relating to examinations and the criminal penalties therein 
L ° . 'od £ o r ^Proper disclosures of information obtained during 
examinations. 
& 
r.( . 
l n keeping with these considerations and after further 
1979 
° f t h e :natl:er> t h e B o a r d h a s confirmed its letter of July 12, 
- 
For your information, there is enclosed with this letter a 
a v v T T l t : ° f t h G i u f o r m a t i o n t h e Board expects member banks to have 
and o i 
t h C i r h e a d o f f i c e w i t h respect to their foreign branches 
subsidiaries and to which examiners are to have access. 
Very truly yours, 
// 
v; 
j 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
^closure 

v;T 1- f 1 8 
Supervision of foreign brandies and subsidiaries by member banks 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, as a central 
kaiu> is properly concerned with the preservation and promotion of a sound 
art king system in the United States. The Board of Governors and other 
eral banking supervisory authorities have been given specific statutory 
r°-sponsibilities to assure that banking institutions are operated in a 
Saf(i and prudent manner affording protection to depositors and providing 
• Equate and efficient banking services' to the public on a continuing 
These responsibilities and concerns are shared by central banks 
k^nk; supervisors the world over. 
Under sections 2.5 and 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act, the Board 
Particular responsibilities to supervise the international operations 
^ Member banks in the public interest. .In carrying out these responsibili-
ties i \ 
> '"-he Board has sought to assure that the international operations of 
banks would not only foster the foreign commerce of the United States 
but fy 
wiat they would also be conducted so as not to encroach on the main-
of a sound and effective banking structure in the United States. 
In \ 
replug with the latter consideration, the Board believes it incumbent 
• neniber banks to supervise and administer their foreign branches and 
Subsj'T 
varies in such a manner as to assure that their operations are con-
u at all times in accordance with high standards of banking and 
' Ulncial prudence. 

. 
A. i JLa ' 
Proper administration and supervision of foreign branches and 
require the use of effective systems of records, controls, 
a n d reports that will keep the bank's management informed of the activi-
t i e s and condition of 
its branches and subsidiaries. 
At a minimum, 
Such systems should provide the following: 
Mslc assets. To permit assessment of exposure to loss, informa-
\ 
tion furnished or available to head office should be sufficient 
to permit periodic and systematic appraisals of the quality of 
loans and other extensions of credit. Coverage should extend 
to a substantial proportion of the risk assets in the branch 
or subsidiary, and include the status of all large credit lines 
and of credits to customers also borrowing from other offices 
the bank* 
Information on credit extensions should include 
(1) a recent financial statement of the borrower and current 
information on his financial condition; (?) credit terms, 
conditions, and collateral; (3) data on any guarantors; (4) pay-
went history; and (5) status of corrective measures employed, 
liquidity. 
To enable assessment of local management's ability 
to meel its obligations from available resources, reports should 
identify the general sources and character of the deposits, 
borrowings, etc., employed in the branch or subsidiary with 
special reference to (heir terms and volatility. 
Information 
should be available on sources of liquidity-cash, balances 
v ith banks, marketable securities, and repayment flov;s~-such 
«s will reveal their accessibility in time and any risk elements 
involved. 

. _ 1 7 2 0 
-3- -
Contingencies. Data on the volume and nature of contingent items 
such as loan commitments and guaranties or their equivalents that 
permit analysis of potential risk exposure and liquidity require-
ments, 
\ 
Controls. Reports on the internal and external audits of the 
branch or subsidiary in sufficient detail to permit determination 
of conformance to auditing guidelines. Such reports should cover 
(1) verification and identification of entries on financial state-
ments; (2) income and expense accounts, including descriptions of 
significant charge-offs.and recoveries; (3) operation of dual-
control procedures and other internal controls; (4) conformance 
to head office guidelines on loans, deposits, foreign exchange 
activities, proper accounting procedures, and discretionary 
authority of local management; (4) compliance with local laws 
and regulations; and (5) compliance with applicable U.S. laws 
and regulations. 

' 
. ••.!".-•• 
'v. . 
•• • •' 
If j| 
f . 
J : 
II || §; If 
S ^ M ^ l % • 
. v 
^ 
t 
, .. _ i 
. ... J 
ililil- ' 
Item No. II 
5/16/73 
Por * 
^mediate release 
May 16, 1973 
• b or actions designed to curb t:be rapid expansion in bank credit and 
fhe Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve. System announced today 
-ri.es 
moderate inflationary pressures, and at the same time to assure the 
^ability of credit on a reasonable, scale. 
•The measures will:* 
Impose an 8 per cent marginal reserve requirement (the regular 
^ i^r cr>r h 
-llw plus a supplemental 3 per cent) on further increases in the total 
( 5) 0lJt standing certificates of deposit of $100,000 and over issued by 
ho • 
and on (b) outstanding funds obtained by a bank through is-
\ V an affiliate of obligations subject to the existing reserve re-
^"^•ttient-
' w 0 n time deposits. The 3 per cent marginal reserve would not 
^Ply t 
0 banks whose obligations of these types aggregate less than $10 
Reduce from 20 
per cent to 8 per cent the reserve requirement 
Cr, 
^tai 
n foreign borrowings of U.S. banks, primarily Euro-dollars, thus 
WB roughly parallel treatment at present with the marginal reserve 
a- on large-denomination certificates of deposit and bank-related 
V j , , x paper. The Board also acted to eliminate gradually the reserve-
v . b a s 4 
still held by some banks subject to this measure. 
o 
Suspend the ceilings that apply to the rate of interest 
-u-- wanks may pay on certificates of deposit of $100,000 and over 
that mature in 90 days or more, effective immediately. 

X 4 
- 2 -
4. At the same tims, the F.card proposed a regulatory amendment 
'hat would apply reserve requirements to funds raised by banks thtough 
alcs of finance bills (sometimes called working capital acceptances). 
adopted, the amendment would subject the amount of finance bills 
lttently outstanding to a 5 per cent reserve requirement. 
(There is 
prGently no reserve requirement on finance bills.) In addition, under this 
ploPosa!» finance bills would be part of the total obligations subject to 
the & Per cent marginal reserve requirement. 
Comment on the finance bills proposal will be received by the 
B o j j v . J 
. . 
tnrough June 4. 
}V 
* . * 
For purposes of computing the 8 per cent reserve requirement, 
would compare its daily average outstanding amount of finance 
^ i s , larj.c CDs and bank-related commercial paper to the daily average 
tlln°unt outstanding on the base date—the week ended Hay 16, 1973, or to 
viC 
' ^ 1 1 ion, whichever is larger. Under the present regulation as amended 
0<^y> however, marginal reserve requirements will be based on the total 
lD0Uut 
large CDs and bank-related commercial paper. 
The marginal reserve requirement on 1.3rge time deposits and covered 
C°r'QierCial paper Issued by affiliates will apply to the excess of deposits 
T 
• 1 
" t!le base period beginning in the statement we el; starting June 7. 
Tli 's° reserves will have tc be held in the week starting June 21. 
The actions were taken against the background of an unusually 
str 
by .. 
°nS expansion in bank credit, stimulated to a considerable extent 
Jner&ased business spending for capital investment ana inventory 

1723 
- 3 -
Cumulation. 
The actions will help the present policy of monetary restraint 
to moderate this expansion. Recent growth in bank credit to major business 
c°-poratioris lias been financed in large part by increases in the issuance 
of money market-type instruments of the kinds covered by the action taken 
t0dQy by the Board. 
Business borrowing from coamercial banks increased by about $15 
* 13.1cm during the first four months of this year. This increase was only 
Partially offset by the reduced use of commercial paper by businesses to 
cbtain Uxu<\i>. Commercial banks obtained funds to meet the demand for a 
U sing volume of business loans largely through the sale of large nego-
CDs, which also increased by about $15 billion over this period. 
^^-'^•iLJ^JL^r ve on JLj&rfte Denomination CDs, 
The new 8 per cent marginal reserve requirement will apply to the 
t 0 U l of single-maturity, large-denomination CDs and bank-related com-
C)0rc>-ial paper issued by a member bank beginning Thursday, June 7, to the 
'**te»it that this volume exceeds the average amount outstanding in the 
week ending Wednesday, May 16. In no case will the marginal 
r°«erve. apply to an amount outstanding of less than $10 million. 
For example, if a member bank had outstanding a total of $20 
&lilHon of large Cus and bank-related commercial paper on average during 
tho *eek ended Hay 16, 1973, and increased that amount to $23 million 
by the week ended Wednesday, June 13, the bank would be subject to an 
8 P C r cent reserve requirement on the additional $5 m.Ulion-or a $400,000 
teSerVe. Without: this change in the regulation, the reserve requirement 
°n 
additional $5 million would be 5 per cent—or $250,000. 

1724 
- A -
The base for computing the marginal reserve requirement will 
remain the same for each individual bank--the week ended May 16, 1973 or 
$10 million, whichever is greater—regardless of the level of its CD and 
commercial paper holdings in the future. 
Under the lagged reserve system now in effect, a member bank Is 
required to hold reserves during any given week based on the level of its 
deposits two weeks earlier. Thus, a bank in this instance will be required 
to held the S per cent marginal reserve during the week of June 21-27, 
based on the level of its deposits during the week of June 7-13. It will 
bold the 8 per cent marginal reserve only to the extent that its aggregate 
total of large CDs and bank-related commercial paper exceeds the total am-
°tmt outstanding during the week ending today, May .16, 1973. 
11 ar Reserve_Requlrement « 
Last September 7, the Hoard proposed to reduce its marginal reserve 
tequireir.eut on certain foreign borrowings of U.S. banks, primarily Euro-
dollars, from 20 per cent to 10 per cent and to eliminate the reserve-
free bases available to banks subject to this reserve requirement. A 
reserve requirement on Euro-dollar transactions was first imposed in 
l9*9 to moderate short-term dollar flows between the United States and 
°thar countries. 
Reduction of this reserve requirement to 8 per cent will provide 
l'°ughly parallel treatment at the present time—so far as reserve 
rfcquireino.nts are concerned—among Kuro-dollars, large CDs and batsk-
r*-lat*d commercial paper. At some future time, of course, it may be 
desirable to depart from such parallel treatment. 

1725 
- 5 -
The Board also decided to phase out the reserve-free bases available 
t o tfanks subject to this marginal reserve requirement. Bases will be re-
duced by 10 per cent in each four-week computation period beginning with 
t h e period starting July 5. This schedule will result in elimination 
the bases in the computation period beginning March l^i, 197A. 
Large CD Ceilings 
The Board suspended interest rate ceilings on large CDs maturing 
3-11 
days or more, in order to permit member commercial banks to maintain 
Q balanced structure of deposits. Ceilings previously had been suspended 
°n 
issued for 30-89 days, and had ranged from 6 3/4 per cent to 7 1/2 
Pt'T 
cent on longer-maturity deposits of $100,000 and over. Because of re-
C & U t advances in market rates, the ceiling rates on longer maturity deposits 
n°V} Practically preclude banks from using long-term CDs and the great bulk 
0f iarge CDs being issued mature in less than 90 days. Ceilings on large 
with maturities of less than 90 days were suspended in June, of 1970. 
Interest rate ceilings will remain in place on all other types of 
of r,.k 
deposits, including passbook accounts and consumer-type certificate: 
'Posit (those of less than $100,000). 
edJ\mapdment on Finance Bills 
The proposed amendment would apply reserve requirements against 
furids obtained by the. bank for use in its banking business through sale 
bfmk 
acceptances that, arc not eligible for discount at a Federal 
Bank. The traditional type of bank acceptances which apply to 
qi. 
clfic transactions in goods woulcl continue to be exempt from reserve 
lr-*cI^ircimentr. and eligible for discount by a Federal Reserve Bank. 

- 6 -
Under the proposal, the Board would treat the sale of finance bills 
G(luivalent to deposits subject to reserve requirements. At present, 
a^out $1,1 billion in such bills are outstanding. Under the proposal, funds 
deceived by a bank would be treated as a deposit if the member bank (1) 
ari acceptance that is not eligible for discount at a Federal Reserve 
nR» (2) then 
sells the. acceptance, and (3) uses the proceeds in its 
banking business. 
In a related matter, the Board said only acceptances eligible 
f o 
r discount at a Federal Reserve Bank would be subject to limitations on 
^ M c s outstanding set forth in Section 3.3 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
* 
* 
* 
The Board urged all banks to observe the spirit, as we)1 as the 
letter- 
a-
' L> ot the Board's actions in a concerted effort to curb bank credit 
'xPanaion and to moderate inflationary pressures. 
In this connection* 
tllQ - f- < 1 
ached letter is being sent to about 190 of the largest non-member 
bank*--
" seeking their assistance and cooperation in ensuring the effective-
ness nf 
1 this program. 
A copy of the Board's orders relating to these actions is attached. 

1727 
TITLE 3.2—BANKS AftD BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM ' 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. D] 
PART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
Reserve Percentages 
The Board of Governors, pursuant to its authority under 
Section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act to set reserve ratios (12 
§ 463.) j has amended its Regulation D (12 CFR 204) so as to 
establish a marginal reserve requirement of 8 per cent against 
Certairi time deposits. There has recently been a sharp increase 
the amount of large-denomination certificates of deposits, which 
been financing the rapid expansion of bank credit. Accordingly, 
t h e Board dec.idcd that it would be in the public interest to impose 
higher marginal reserve requirement on such deposits in an 
Gf£ort t;0 reduce "the incentives of banks to expand credit on the basis 
of this source cf funds. The Board also decided to subject to the 
o 
cent marginal reserve requirement certain deposits exempt 
11 the rate limitatiras of the Board's Regulation Q. 
There was no notice and public participation with respect 
0 this amendment because such procedure would result in delay that 
be contrary to the public interest and serve no useful pur-
P&se, 

17 28 
- 2 -
The effective data was deferred for less than the 30-day 
p G r i o d referred to in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States 
because the Board found that the general credit situation 
aT1<3 the public interest compelled it to make the action effective 
n° later than the date adopted. 
Effective 
June 21.1973 , Section 204.5(a)(1)(ii) and 
(ii) io, amended to read as follows: 
^ 0 4»5 Reserve Requlrements. 
(a) Reserve, percentages. Pursuant to the provisions of 
Action IS of the Federal Reserve Act and § 204.2(a) and subject to 
^^a^raph (c) of thia section, the Board of Governors of the Federal 
v e system hereby prescribes the following reserve balances that 
ear j. 
Member bank of the Federal Reserve System is required to main-
tflin 
depor.it with the Federal Reserve* Bank of its district: 
(1) If not in a reserve city— 
* 
A 
i< 
Hon 
(ii) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 mil-
' Plug 5 p e r cent of such deposits In excess of $5 million: 
Jrovi a 
^-^.Slsd, however , That a member bank shall maintain a reserve 
baian 
C e equal to 8 per. cent of the amount by which the daily aver-
4jaount of time deposits of the types hereinafter specified ex-
either the daily average amount of such time deposits outstanding 
^ trio computation period ending 
May 16. 19 7.3 
> o r $-10 will ion. 

whichever is (Jreateir, and such 8 per cent reserve percentage shall 
aPply with respect to time deposits of the following types: 
(a) single maturity time deposits of 
$100,000 or more; and 
(b) any other time deposits exempt from 
the rate limitations of Regulation Q, other 
than a deposit due to (i) a foreign banking 
office of a bank, or (jU)_ an institution the 
time deposits of which are described In 
§ 217.3(g) thereof, 
end 
* 
* 
* 
(2) If in a reserve city (except as to any bank located 
such a city that is permitted by the Board of Governors of the 
Pt**eral Reserve System, pursuant to § 204.2(a)(2), to maintain the 
re-serves specified in subparagraph (1) of this paragraph) — 
* 
:k it 
(il) 3 per cent of its other time deposits up to $5 mil 
i*on, p]us 
p e r c e n t Gf s u ch deposits in excess of $5 million: 
p . . 
however, That a member bank shall maintain a reserve ba.1 
auce- eqvjal to 3 per cent of the amount by which the daily average 
ar,'Oiint of time deposits of the types, hereinafter specified exceeds 
G j :u'r the daily average amount of such time deposits outstanding 
Ul:ivi& the computation period ending 
JliZJJh J ^ H 
» ol* 
whichever is greater, and such 8 per cent, reserve percent 
v 
apply with respect to time deposits of the following types: 

I - 1730 
- 4 -
(a) single maturity time deposits of $100,000 
or more; and 
(b) any other time deposits exempt from the 
rate limitations of Regulation Q, other than a 
deposit due to (i_) a foreign banking office of a 
bank, or (ii) an institution the time deposits of 
which are described in § 217.3(g) thereof, 
and 
* 
* 
* 
1A 107 3 
By order of the Board of Governors, ^laJL x u ' 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER I I — FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD CF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Regs. D, M] 
FART 204—RESERVES OF MEMBER BANKS 
PART 213--FOREJ.GN ACTIVITIES OF NATIONAL BANKS 
Reserves Against: Eurodollar Borrowings 
By notice of proposed rule making published in the Federal 
September 20, 1972 (37 Federal Register 19386), the Board 
O f 
Q 
Pernors proposed to amend sections 204.5(c) of Regulation D and 
of Regulation M to reduce the reserve requirement on member 
bankg
 5 r,' 
oo.oliar borrowings and foreign branch loans to United State 
* t t Bl<W„ r. 
b trom 20 to 10 per cent and to eliminate reserve-free basnfs 
J-y exempting from reserve requirements some portion of those 
or loans. 
Following consideration of the comments received, the Board 
mined to amend those regulations to reduce the reserve re-
^^dvo -
lt~nta on member banks' Eurodollar borrowings and foreign branch 
3'°ans 
1T 
v u.k„ residents from 20 to 8 per cent> to eliminate the 
f 
bases presently exempting from reserve requirements some 
' o,. member banks' foreign branch loans to U.S. residents, and 
to Pha^o 
over a period of approximately eight months the reserve-
bat.es presently exempting from reserve requirements some portion 
banks5 Eurodollar borrowings. 

eliminated from calculations of this period and thereafter. The 
Under the amendments, the reduced r a t e of r e s e r v e requirements 
aPPly in the case, of r e s e r v e s that must be maintained during the 
Maintenance period beginning on June 21, 1973, based on the computation 
Period extending from May 10, 1973? to June 6, 1973, and the reserve-free 
a s G$ ^ e l a t i n g to member banks 1 f o r e i g n branch loans t o U.S. r e s i d e n t s 
v l H be 
,erVc^fveo bases relating to member banks1 Eurodollar borrowings will 
^ased cut by reducing the bases existing in the computation period 
eticHn 
"B on May 9, 1973, in graduated steps, each in the amount of 10 per 
o f a bank's base for such computation period ending on May 9, 1973, 
-ncing with the, computation period extending from July 5, 1973 to 
^HVuat- -
1
s > 1973j, and continuing for the next nine computation periods. 
» uniess eliminated through disuse under the automatic downward ad-
^ st®«rit provisions of the regulations being amended, which provisions 
V l U 
r 
t 
c°ntinue in effect., the reserve-free bases relating to member banks 
0 
borrowings will be eliminated entirely in the computation 
u ending on April 10, 1974. 
The Board has amended section 204.5(c) of Regulation D and 
ticn 213,7 of Regulation K to read as 
f o l l o w s : 
§ 
5 -o 
* 
Iseserve requirements 
* 
* 
-k 
* 
* 
(c) Reserve percentages against certain deposits hy_foreign 
^Qki 
Deposits represented by promissory notes? acknowledge-
0T: advance, due bills, or similar obligations described in 

, . 1733 
-3-
8/ 
§ 204.1(f) to foreign offices of other banks, or to institutions the 
time deposits of which are exempt from the rate limitations of Regula-
tion Q pursuant to § 217.3(g) thereof, shall not be subject to para-
graph ( a ) 0£ t h l s section or to § 204.3(a)(1) and (2); but during each 
week of the four-week period beginning June 21, 1973, and during each 
successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member bank shall maintain 
vl-th the Reserve Bank of its district a daily average balance equal to 
8 Per ccnt of the daily average amount of such deposits during the four-
Week computation period ending on the Wednesday fifteen days before the 
keginning of the maintenance period. An excess or deficiency in reserves 
week of a maintenance period under this paragraph shall be subject 
t:o 5 204.3(a)(3), as if computed under § 204.3(a)(2), and deficiencies 
1! 
under this paragraph shall be subject to § 204.3(b): 
^•^ZiiSli ^ a t any bank that, under the terms of § 204.5(c) of 
10/ 
e&ulation D as in effcct prior to June 21, 1973, was deducting for the 
computation period ending on May 9, 1973, an earlier period's correspond-
daily average total of such deposits (hereinafter called "reserve-
^ e e bare") in calculating its reserve requirements shall continue to ba 
^ 
Any b&nkin^'office located outside the States of the United States 
District of Columbia of a bank organized under domestic or 
fcreign law. 
The term "computation period" in § 204.3(a)(3) and (b) shall, for 
purpose, be deemed to refer to each week of a maintenance period 
this paragraph* 
W 
35 Federal Register 13658, 

^titled to do BO in accordance with the terms of such former section, 
but cuch reserve-free base shall not exceed progressively lower ceilings 
established hereunder by reducing the amount of its reserve-free base for 
the computation period ending on Hay 9, 1973, in ten increments, each 
to 10 per cent of its base in such computation period ending on 
H{ly 
1973, applied consecutively in each succeeding computation period 
beginning with the period ending on August 1, 1973, until such reserve-
free base is exhausted. 
S 2 1 V / 
Reserves against: foreign branch deposits• 
(a) Trar^act^ns^with J W ^ L ^ ' S * 
During each week of the 
fou?>v?eoU period beginning June ?!, 1973, and during each week of each 
successive four-week ("maintenance") period, a member bank having one 
0r Jaore foreign branches shall maintain with the Reserve Bank of its 
Strict ? as a reserve against its foreign branch deposits, a daily 
avet'agc. balance equal to 8 per cent of the daily average total of 
(1) net balances due from its domestic offices to such 
inches, and 
(2) assets (including participations) held by such branches 
V h l cn were acquired from its domestic offices (other than assets repre-
Anting credit extended to persons not residents of the United States), 
the four-week computation period ending on the Wednesday fifteen 
beforG the beginning of the maintenance period: 

1735 
•5-
&£videds That any bank that, under the terms of § 213.7(a) of 
V 
filiation II as in effect prior to June 21, 1973, was deducting 
f o r the computation period ending on May 9, 1973, an earlier period's 
COrrespending daily average total of such "net balances due" or "assets 
llGld" (hereinafter called "reserve-free base") in calculating its reserve 
^-quirements hereunder shall continue to be entitled to do so in accord-
Q U c° with the terms of such former section, but such reserve-free base 
r'haH not exceed progressively lower ceilings established hereunder by 
le<Hicii\g the amount of its reserve-free base for the computation period 
ei*cUng on May 9, 1973, in ten increments, each equal to 10 per cent of 
M : g base in such computation period ending on May 9, 1973, applied 
c°risec.utively in each succeeding computation period beginning with the 
period ending on August 1, 1973, until such reserve-free base is exhausted, 
(b) Credit extend?d to United States residents, During each 
V'G0k 
the four-week period beginning June 21, 1973, and during each 
each successive four-week maintenance period, a member bank having 
° r more foreign branches shall maintain with the Reserve Bank of its 
^txiet, as a reserve against its foreign branch deposits, a daily 
QV(irage balance ecual to 3 per cent of the daily average credit outstand-
ing 
* 
8/ 
° ^rom such branches to United States residents (other than assets 
^ 
federal "Register 1040; 6820. 
8/ , s 
, 
at\v o 
A u v individual residing (at the time the credit is extendea) in 
Por "':ate 
the United States or the District of Columbia; (b) any cor-
(<» ]
al:lon: partnership, association or. other entity organized therein 
-domestic corporation"^- and. (c) anv branch or office located therein of 
'^tinuecl on page 6) 

a 
»6» 
acquired and net balances due from its domestic offices) during the 
four-week computation period ending on the Wednesday fifteen days before 
the beginning of the maintenance period: 
Provided, That this paragraph does not apply to crcdit extended (1) to 
enable the borrower to comply with the requirements of the Office of 
9/ 
Foreign Direct Investments, Department of Commerce, 
or (2) under bind-
ing commitments entered into before Kay 17, 1973. 
Effective date: June 21, 1973. 
By order of the Board of Governors> May 16, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynr-n Smith 
~ 
" 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
S/ (continued from page 5) 
, . f > n Krnnri, 
any other entity wherever organized. Credit extended Co a f 
^fice, subsidiary, affiliate or other foreign establishment 
affiliate") controlled by one or more such domestic corporations will not 
be deemed to be credit extended to a United States r e c e n t xf t h P o c c c d . 
will be used in its foreign business or that of other foreign affiliates 
°f the controlling domestic corporatiop(s). 
V 
The branch may in good f a i t h r e l y on the borrower's 
c e r t i f i c a t i o n 
that the funds w i l l be so used. 

TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
. SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[Reg. Q] 
PART 217—INTEREST ON DEPOSITS 
Large-denomination Certificates of Deposit 
The Board of Governors, pursuant to its authority under 
-1.9 of the Federal Reserve Act to prescribe rules governing 
i ^yiritnt of interest on deposits, has amended its Regulation Q 
- 1 7 ) so as to cuspeud, for the time being, the. limitations 
Cri the, Kates of interest which may be paid by a member bank on a 
1 r> 
maturity time deposit of $100,000 cr more, regardless of the 
xcy of such time deposit. There is presently nu maximum rate of 
lute*e«»t-
r: Prescribed for n single maturity time, deposit of $100,000 or 
~ U l a maturity of 30-39 days.... 
• 
There was no notice and public participation with respect 
to thj„ 
0 amendment because such procedure would result in delay that 
k 
e contrary to the public interest and serve no useful pur-
§ 262.2(e) of the Board's Rules of Procedure, 12 CFR 
§ * * v s . The effective date was deferred for less than the 30-
s lJf> 
t7riod referred to in section 553(d) of Title 5, United States 
V 
•JC'-cause this amendment relieve.*? a restriction. 

I.. 1 7 3 8 
- 2 -
Effective 
immediately 
, Section 217.7(a)(1) is 
tended to read as follows: 
§ 2.17 .7—Maximum rater, of interest payable by member banks 
on time and savings deposits. 
* 
& 
A 
(a) Single maturity time deposits. 
(X) Deposits of $100,000 or more. There is no maximum 
rate of interest presently prescribed on arty single 
maturity time deposit of $100,000 or more. 
* 
* 
* 
* 
By order of the Board of Governors, May 16, 3.973 
(Signed) Chester B, Feldberg 
Chester B. FeIdberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

r 
7iK) 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
[12 CFR Part 204] 
RESERVES OF MEMBER. BANKS 
Deposit Status of Acceptance Proceeds 
The Board of Governors proposes to apply reserve require-
against the proceeds of the sale by a member bank of its own 
b° R k acceptance. At the same time, the Board proposes not to apply 
rese*vo requirements against the proceeds of the sale by a member 
bQv,k of bank acceptances that are eligible for discount by a Federal 
U ( i s^ve Bank under the provisions of the Board's Regulation A (12. 
C F RFart 201), commonly referred to as "eligible" acceptances. 
For example, ..under the proposal,'if a member bank (a) makes an 
*Cc°Pt*nce that is not eligible for discount ati a Federal Reserve Bank, 
(b) Purchases that acceptance, and (c) in turn sells the acceptance, 
t h e overall transaction would be regarded as a means of obtaining 
f U n d s for use in the member bank's banking business, and the funds 
upon the sale would be treated as a "deposit" against which 
must be maintained. 
Funds received from the sale of an "eligible" acceptance 
V?0Uld ^ exempt from reserve requirements for two reasons. First, 

1710 
a member bank, in creating such acceptances, is subject to amount 
limitations set forth in section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, 
^ich is not; t r u e i n tb.e case of other types of acceptances. Se-
C°ncl' "eligible" acceptances of the type described in the seventh 
pai:agraph of section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act (12 U.S.C, § 372) 
limited to specific transactions in goods, while other accept-
a re not so limited. Both these reasons are directly related 
to 
purposes of reserve requirements, which include the preven-
tion of f -
the unlimited expansion of bank crcdit. 
To aid In the consideration of this matter by the Board, 
L "ested persons are invited to submit relevant data, views of 
arfcum 
Any *juch material should be submitted in writing to the 
ai7> Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Wash-
°n> D. c. 20551, to be received not later than June 4, 1973. Such 
will be vfedr. available for inspection and copying upon 
L» except as provided in § 261.6(a) of the Board's Rules Re-
fr^inc 
is Availability of Information. 
To implement its proposal, the Board proposes to amend 
n 20A.l(i") of its Regulation D (12 CFU Part 204) as follows: 
' -1 H^initions 
* 
'k 
4; 
<f) Deposits as including certain promissory notes and 
^Aisnfcions, For the. purpose of this Part, the term "deposits" 

also includes a member bank's liability on any promissory note, 
Qc knowledgment of advance, due bill, bank acceptance or similar 
R a t i o n (whether written or oral) that is issued or undertaken 
by a member bank as a means of obtaining funds to be used in its 
bai*ing business, except any such obligation that: 
ft 
i: 
* 
(/}) * 
* 
A; or 
(5) arises from the creation of a bank acceptance of the 
described in section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act and eligible 
discount by the. Federal Reserve Banks. 
i: 
* 
* 
By order of the. Board of Governors ^M^lILuJ^.. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
""Chester B. Feldberg 
Aocistant Secretary of the Board 
lS.EAl(] 

1742 
TITLE 12—BANKS AND BANKING 
CHAPTER II FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A—BOARD OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 250—MISCELLANEOUS INTERPRETATIONS 
§ ?-50.163 Inn)->p]lc ab i1i tv o£ amount limitations to 
.^COr; <» 
(a) Since 1923, the Board has been of the view that "the 
acceptanca power of State member banks is not necessarily confined to 
tlle Proviaions of section 13 [of the Federal Reserve Act], inasmuch as 
ts 
• laws of many States confer broader acceptance powers upon their 
^ t e banks, and certain State member banks may, therefore, .legally make 
dc"c-ptances of kinds uhich arc not. eligible for rediscount., but which may 
eligible for purchase by Federal reserve banks under section 14." 1923 
11' J ^ H e t i n 33.6 > 317 . 
(b) In 1963, the Comptroller of the Currency ruled that M[n]a-
na-l banks are not limited in the character of acceptances which they 
^ y make in financing credit, transactions, and bankers' acceptances may 
USGcl for such purpose, since the making of acceptances is an essential 
Pfllr,: of banking authorized by 12 U.S.C. 24," Comptroller' s Manual 7.7420. 
^^efore, national banks are authorized by the Comptroller to make accept. 
anc Gs under 12 U.S.C. 5 24, although the acceptances are not of the typ< 
^Scv-ri 
flbod j,n section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act. 
(c) A review of the legislative history surrounding the enact-
the acceptance provisions of section 13 reveals that Congress be-
in .1913 that it was granting to national banks a power which they 
^-nt 

1713 
ttould not otherwise possess and had not previously possessed. See remarks 
of Congressmen Phelan, Helvering, Saunders and Glass, 51 Cong.. Rec. 4676, 
/f793, 4885, and 5064 (September 10, 12, 13 and 17 of 1913). Nevertheless, 
Courts have long recognized the evolutionary nature of banking and of 
^ e scope of the "incidental powers" clause of 12 U.S.C. § 24. See Me_r-
^ntsjiank v. State Bank, 77 U.S. 604 (1870) (upholding the power of a 
national bank to certify a check under the "incidental powers" clause of 
1 2 U.S.C. § 24). 
(d) It now appears that, based on the Board's 1923 ruling and 
the Comptroller's 1963 ruling, both State member banks and national banks 
tuaV make acceptances which are not of the type described in section 13 of 
the Federal Reserve Act. Yet, this appears to be a development that Congrest 
aid not contemplate when it drafted the acceptance provisions of section 13. 
(e) The question is presented whether the amount limitations of 
ection 13 should apply to acceptances made by a member bank that are not 
the type described in section 13. (The amount limitations are of two 
'-•ttas: (a) a limitation on the amount, that may be accepted for any one 
^•S^fiiner, and (b) a limitation on the aggregate amount of acceptances that 
11 Member bank may make.) In interpreting any Federal statutory provision, 
Primary guide is the intent of Congress, yet, as noted earlier, Congress 
ici not contemplate in 1913 the development of so-called "ineligible accept-
arice.g.»• (Although there Is some indication that Congress did contemplate 
S t a te member banks' making acceptances of a type not described in section 13 
h 
emarks of Congressman Glass, 51 Cong. Rec. 5064], the primary focus of 

.. 1744 
Congressional attention was on the acceptance powers of national banks.) In 
the absence of an indication of Congressional intent, we are left to reach 
a n interpretation that is in harmony with the language of the statutory pro-
visions and with the purposes of the Federal Reserve Act. 
(f) Section 13 authorizes acceptances of two types. The seventh 
Paragraph of section 13 (12 U.S.C. § 372) authorizes certain acceptances that 
arise out of specific transactions in goods. (These acceptances are some-
times referred to as "commercial acceptances.") The twelfth paragraph of 
section 13 authorizes member banks to make acceptances "for the purpose of 
finishing dollar exchange as required by the. usages of trade" in foreign 
transactions. 
(Such acceptances are referred to as "dollar exchange 
acceptances.") In the twelfth paragraph, there is a 10 per cent limit; on 
th* amount of dollar exchange acceptances that may be accepted for any 
°ne customer (unless adequately secured) and a limitation on the aggregate 
amount of dollar exchange acceptances that a member bank may make. (The 
tWelfth paragraph, in Imposing these limitations, refers to the acceptance 
0f "such drafts or bills of exchange referred to [in] this paragraph.") 
SiraHarly, the seventh paragraph imposes on commercial acceptances a parallel 
1 0 Per cent per-customer limitation, and limitations on the aggregate 
*m°unt of commercial acceptances. (In rhe case of the aggregate limitations, 
t h e seventh paragraph states that "no bank shall accept such bills t.o an 
£lnount" in excess of the aggregate limit* the reference to "such bills" 
clear that the limitation is only In respect of drafts ot bills of 
C h a n g e of the specific type described in the seventh paragraph.) 

.. 1715 
-4-
(g) Based on the language and parallel structure of the seventh 
^ 
twelfth paragraphs of section 13, and in the absence of a statement of 
Congressional intent in the legislative history, the Board concludes that 
the per-customer and aggregate limitations of the twelfth paragraph apply 
to acceptances of the type described in that paragraph (dollar ex-
change acceptances), and the per-customer and aggregate limitations of the 
seventh paragraph (12 U.S.C. § 372) apply only to acceptances of the type 
^scribed in that paragraph. 
(Interprets and applies 12 U.S.C. § 372 and the twelfth paragraph 
c f section 13 of the Federal Reserve Act, which paragraph is omitted from 
t h e U.S. Code.) 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
973 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
I SEAL] 

1 . 
m 
m
u
m 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
May 16, 1973 
Chief Executive Officer 
Nonmember Bank 
Dear Sir: 
I earnestly seek your assistance and cooperation in 
ensuring that actions taken by the Federal Reserve System today 
lri the interest of a healthy national economy can effectively 
accomplish this objective. 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
taken two actions that affect large time certificates of 
-posit issued by member banks. One action is to suspend maximum 
uterest rate ceilings on such deposits with maturities of more 
89 days; the ceiling rate on deposits of 30-89 day maturity 
b Gen suspended since June 27. 1970, The Federal Deposit 
^ surance Corporation has taken a similar action with respect 
0 insured banks that are not members of the Federal Reserve 
ystem. With market interest rates relatively high, the sus-
pension of ceilings across the board will enable banks to 
^ompete in all maturity sectors of the short-terra market and 
f / - b y permit them to establish a balanced maturity structure 
'r outstanding large certificates of deposit. 
. 
The other action taken by the Federal Reserve Board 
nas Kr 
0£V _u-;en to impose a marginal reserve requirement on the total 
~ funds raised from the issuance of (1) single-maturity time 
^Posits of $100,000 or more, (2) deposits represented by certain 
,mnGrcial paper obligations such as promissory notes, acknowledge-
uts of advances, and due bills, and (3) funds obtained by the 
bank f 
:rom obligations issued bv affiliates and subsidiaries of 
e bn 
t o 
the 
. 
bank, The Board has also published for comment a proposal 
establish reserve requirements, including marginal reserve 
lur-
\ais< 
-0tiU]-tements, on funds obtained from the sale of finance bills 
lis ° tc'rmef- ineligible acceptances), the proceeds of which are 
°'d by the bank. 

_ 1747 
-2-
The marginal reserve requirement action means that 
member banks must maintain additional reserves equal to 3 per 
cent of any growth in the total of deposits and liabilities 
specified above in excess of a base amount. The base for com-
puting the marginal reserve will be the amount outstanding in 
the week ended May 16, 1973, or $10 million, whichever is 
Srcater, Thus, for a member bank the reserve requirement 
applicable to the excess of such deposits above the base level 
would generally be 8 per cent--the continuing 5 per cent require-
ment on large denomination time deposits and other similar domes-
tic money market instruments, plus the marginal 3 per cent 
requirement. 
The reserve requirement action was taken by the Board 
in an effort to restrain bank credit growth as part of the 
nation's anti-inflationary program. The effectiveness of this 
action in the essential task of combating inflation would be. 
enhanced if it applied generally throughout the banking community. 
ccordingly, I very much hope you will see fit to conform to the 
additional 3 per cent: marginal reserve as described above. A 
Col)y of the Federal T^ist^r notice implementing the marginal 
• "serve is attached for your information and guidance, . 
For a nonmember bank, the additional marginal reserve 
l°uld be maintained with a member of the Federal Reserve System 
- your choosing, The member bank receiving the deposit will be 
expected to redeposit these balances with its Federal Reserve 
P 
Operating procedures will be provided by the Federal 
'fcervc Bank and your designated correspondent. 
v, 
X assure you that the request I am now making of you 
th* 
withdrawn at the earliest possible time consistent with 
a national interest. Your cooperation can play a significant 
m 
restraining inflation and in returning the economy to a 
e normal course, 
I look forward to receiving your response. 
Sincerely yours, 
n 
Arthur F. Burns 
Closure 

§ ^
m
i
r
' 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
5/16/73 
M a y 16, 1973 
son 
KS 
The Honorable Donald E. 
P e a r 
Superintendent of Bank: 
y o f 
M o n t g o m e r y S t r e e t 
an F r a n c i s c o , 
C a l i f o r n i a 94104 
£ e a r M r . 
P e a r s o n : 
I^ani enclosing for your information a copy of a p r e s s 
r e l e a s e 
o f ^ e d today announcing a s e r i e s of actions taken by the B o a r d 
c u g o v e r n o r s of the F e d e r a l R e s e r v e S y s t e m in an effort to 
infl- - b e 
r a p i d expansion of bank credit and to help m o d e r a t e 
- <itionary p r e s s u r e s . 
Among other things, the B o a r d has 
c.en'° 3 e d a 
m a r 6 i n a l r e s e r v e r e q u i r e m e n t - - t h e r e g u l a r 5 per 
the t P l U S 
a 
s u t > P l e i T l e n t a l 
3 P e r cent--or- further i n c r e a s e s in 
anc] ° t a l ° f ^ 
o u t s t a n d i n C c e r t i f i c a t e s of deposit of $100,000 
. o v e r i s s u e d by m e m b e r banks, and (b) outstanding, funds 
°f ol r e d b y m e m b e r 
b a n k s through the issuance by affiliates 
tJine Rations subject to the existing reserve requirement on 
ap ? 
:P°Sits. The marginal reserve requirement would 
g a t e V ° 
m e m b c r 
b a n k s whose obligations of these types a g g r e -
s'10 million or m o r e . 
R e n t C t h c d 
U > t h e 
1 3 o a r d ' s p r e s s r e l e a s e is a letter which I have 
Unit e ? d a y 
t 0 
a b o u t 
1 9 0 
o f 
i h e i a r g e s t n o n m e m b e r banks in the 
or1&u 
S t a t e s seeking their a s s i s t a n c e and cooperation in 
^ani- 
1 U S 
t ] l e e f f e c t i v e n e s s of this action. 
T h e s e n o n m e m b e r 
3 
a ' r e being a s k e d to c o n f o r m voluntarily to the additional 
gi-o\vt;}CCnt l n a r f i i n a l 
r c s r ; r v e 
i n 
a n effort to r e s t r a i n bank credit 
c ° n t e 
5 a S 
p a r l 
o f 
t h e 
n a t i o n ' s anti-inflationary p r o g r a m . 
It is 
cent 
^ 
a t C d 
t b a t 
a 
n 0 l j m e m b e r bank would maintain the 3 per 
SVo.- 
r e s e r v e with a m e m b e r of the F e d e r a l R e s e r v e 
i'oc]r,. 
° 
] l s choosing, and that the m e m b e r bank would 
Posit such b a l a n c e s with its F e d e r a l R e s e r v e Ban!:. 

.. 1749 
The Honorable Donald E. 
P e a r s o n 
P a g e 2 
I a s s u r e you, a s I have a l s o a s s u r e d the nonmember banks 
concerned, that this request will be withdrawn at the e a r l i e s t 
p o s s i b l e time consistent with the national interest. 
I under-
stand f r o m Governor Bucher that you might be willing, 
your capacity a s P r e s i d e n t of the Conference of State Bank 
S u p e r v i s o r s , to lend your support to our efforts, and would 
greatly a p p r e c i a t e any a s s i s t a n c e that you can give us in 
this r e g a r d . 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F . 
B u r n s 
Enclosure 

1750 
ML RE 
C H A I R M A N O F T H E B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
Item No. 13 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2 0 5 5 1 
5/16/73 
May 16, 1973 
IDENTICAL LETTER SENT TO ALL STATE BANK SUPERVISORS 
artno G n c l 0 s l n S f°r your information a copy of a press release issued today 
e^al U U C i n S a s e r ^ e s 
actions taken by the Board of Governors of the Fed-
,^ e s e r v e System in an effort to curb the rapid expansion of bank credit 
has 
moderate inflationary pressures. Among other things, the Board 
S u p p^Posed a marginal reserve requirement--the regular 5 per cent plus a 
i^g ,emental 3 per cent—on further increases in the total of (a) ou t stand-
and /
f
o
f 
deposit of $100,000 and over issued by member banks, 
aff-{j . I outstanding funds obtained by member banks through the issuance by 
tiiti-* ] a t e 3 
obligations subject to the existing reserve requirement on 
^Qflkc; 
osi*:s« 
Ihe marginal reserve requirement would apply to member 
v^iose obligations of these types aggregate $10 million or more. 
Attg^i . 
to abou1 
Boarc*'s P r e s s release is a letter which I have sent today 
their U<" ^ ^ 
t b c largest nonmember banks in the United States seeking 
a c tion a S S i s t a n c e aild cooperation in ensuring the effectiveness of this 
t^o ac-.j. ^ l ese nonmember banks are being asked to conform voluntarily to 
" o n a! ^ per cent marginal reserve in an effort to restrain bank 
C°ntemi)?r0Wt:l1 a s Part' of the nation's anti-inflationary program. 
It is 
*GSei*vo. 
that a nonmember bank would maintain the 3 per cent marginal 
a m c m b c r 
Federal Reserve System of its choosing, and 
*e8erv A l r , Q m b c i' b a n k would redeposit such balances with its Federal 
Bank. 
tV?Ssure V n 
LtUs y. •you) as I have also assured the. nonmember banks concerned, that 
e o • 
^th thQUeSt" 
^e withdrawn at the earliest possible time consistent 
)Qrt in this endeavor. 
at!cl 8 Upp 0?? t i 0^l interest. I hope that X may count on your cooperation 
Sincerely yours, 
Arthur F, Burns 

1751 
B O A R D • F G O V E R N • R S 
• F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
20551 
Item No„ 14 
5/16/73 
A D O R E R S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
May 23, 1973 
LETTER SENT TO STATE BANK SUPERVISORS 
I attach for your information a copy of a l e t t e r from 
Governor Bucher to Donald E. Pearson, Superintendent of Banks of 
S t a t e of California. 
Mr. Pearson had raised some points with respect to the 
card's recent actions on reserves. I am sure you will be inter-
ested in Governor Eucher's comments with respect to these issues. 
In particular, the Board would like to emphasize that 
*ese actions were taken solely for purposes of monetary policy, 
and are intended to have no implications with respect to the dual 
anking system, the essential elements of which, as Governor Bucher 
P°ints out, remain in place. As you know, the Board for some years 
a s recommended that the same reserve requirements should be applied 
0 a H commercial banks. However, the Board believes that this 
recoinniendation, which is intended to improve the effectiveness of 
^enetary policy, is fully compatible with the continued viability 
tlie dual banking system. 
I also attach for your information a list of the banks 
I u 
State that received the Board's letter of May 16, 1973. 
Yours sincerely, 
C
^ 
'L 
( 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary 
tl:achments - 2 

175£ 
BDARO DP G O V E R N O R S 
nr Tht 
FEDERAL. R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
J E f - T R E Y M. BUCHER 
MEMBER Or THE BOARD 
Kay 22, 1973 
Hr. Donald E, Pearson 
Superintendent of Banks 
State of California 
1 9? South Broadway, Suite 8012 
Tj0<'J Angeles, California 
90012 
Don: 
Thank you for your communications with members of the Board 
and with President Balles of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Fran-
cieco with respect to the Board's recent actions on marginal re-
8erves on larger denomination certificates of deposit. 
We very much appreciate your understanding of the objectives 
that the Board is striving to achieve and your intention to encour-
nonmember banks in your State to conform with the spirit of our 
ret?uesi:. We also note your desire to be informed of the response of 
*j°nmember banks in California to which the Board's request was ad-
fessed. We wiJ1 be pleased to keep you advised in this respect, and 
enclose a list of the nonmember banks in your State that received 
the Board's letter. 
The Board has asked that these marginal reserves be redeposited 
v'lth the Federal Reserve System. The monetary policy objective is to 
8tc.rilij.e these reserves, and the only practical way to do so is to 
Place them in the Federal Reserve Banks. 
Furthermore, this procedure 
make clear to the nonmember banks that the funds will not be 
^^-ilable for use by the member banks chosen as depositaries. 
This request applied only to reserves for monetary policy pur-
raid will have no impact on the dual banking system. 
The 
_"':aentiri elements of Federal and State chartering, supervision, and 
e8ulation remain in place and will not be affected by this request. 

to. Donald E. Pearson 
- 
2 
-
Fi nally, as the Board indicated in its original letter, this 
xequest is a temporary action to meet a pressing current economic 
8tabil5.zation problem. We hope that the need for this special 
measure will be comparatively short-lived. The Board intends to 
rescind this request as soon as the pressure of inflationary credit 
demands subsides. 
X hope that we can continue to communicate, on this subject, 
and thnt we. can move ahead in this endeavor in a cooperative way wi 
account being taken of our respective public responsibilities. 
Sincerely yours, 
Enclosure 
v"c* All State Bank Supervisors 
