MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 29, 1973 

4183 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, October 29, 19 73. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. 01Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 2/ 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. 
The Board unanimously approved, for trans-
mittal to the Comptroller of the Currency, a report on the competitive 
factors involved in the proposed merger of Sykesville State Bank, 
Sykesville, Maryland, into Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, Maryland. 
Hie conclusion read as follows: 
There is little competition existing between Sykesville 
State Bank and Maryland National Bank, Baltimore, and the 
potential for a significant increase in competition between 
them in the foreseeable future appears remote. 
The proposal 
would increase, although slightly, the concentration of 
1/ Joined meeting at point indicated in minutes. 
27 Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4 1 9 4 
10/29/73 
-2-
deposits held by the State's largest bank. Overall, the 
competitive effect of the proposed merger on competition 
would be slightly adverse. 
The Board unanimously approved a request by BankAmerica 
Corporation, San Francisco, California, for an extension of time in 
which to acquire shares of GAC Finance, Inc., Allentown, Pennsylvania. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
The Board unanimously approved a letter to counsel for DLJ 
Real Estate, Inc., in response to the latter's request for the Board's 
views on the applicability of Regulation T, Credit by Brokers and Dealers, 
to broker/dealer sales of certain limited partnership interests. A copy 
of the letter is attached as Item No. 2. 
Chairman Burns joined the meeting at this point. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of The Peoples 
Savings Bank Company, Delta, Ohio, to merge with The Farmers State 
Bank of Lyons, Ohio, Lyons, Ohio, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Trust Company of Georgia. In a memorandum of October 3, 19 73, 
the Division of Supervision and Regulation recommended approval of the 
application of Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta,Georgia, for permission 
to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands, 
British West Indies. 
The Board approved the application, Governor Brimmer dissenting. 
A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 

4185 
10/29/73 
-3-
Economic review. The regular weekly economic and financial 
review was presented. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
... 
o r THr- 
Item No. 1 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
u / z y / / J I 
W A SUING TO I s!, C>. C, £053! 
AODf.'r.sa cjrnciAi. ctiHRcspaNOENce 
TU THC HOAHO 
October 29,' 1973 
Mr. C. )I. Baumhefner 
Vice Chairman and Treasurer 
Bank of America Center 
San Francisco, California 
94120 
Dear Sir: 
Tliis is to inform you that the Board has granted the 
request by BankAmerica Corporation, embodied in your letter of 
September .19, 1973, for an extension of time to January 15, 1974 
in which to consummate the acquisition of shares of GAC Finance, 
Inc, 
I 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Ches-ter B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
t 
\ 

41.87 
BOARD DF GOVERNORS 
Item No. 2 
•F THE 
10/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• 
* 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
205II1 
ADDWESB DTf ICtAU nOHRCSPUNOrNCE 
TO THL IJUAliD 
October 30, 1973 
Matthew Weld, Esq. 
Davis Polk & Warowe11 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Dear Mr. Ueld: 
... 
. • 
This responds to your letter of September 28, 1973, and 
a letter of October 5, 1973, from Mr. Anthony Harwood of DLJ Ileal 
Estate, Inc. 
A question has been raised as to whether the sale by 
broker/dealers of interests in DLJ Properties/73 (Properties), a ^ 
limited partnership investing in real estate which is presently in 
registration with the Commission, is forbidden by section 220.7(a) 
of 'the Board of Governors' Regulation T, "Credit by Brokers and 
Dealers". 
Each unit to be sold for $5000 would consist of 5 Limited 
Partnership interests together with a warrant. 
The warrant (expir-
ing, March 1, 1974) will cover 5 additional interests to be sold for 
$1 thousand each. 
The question before the Board essentially, is whether the 
terms of Che offering impose an economic penalty for non-exercise 
of the warrant (when weighed against the new investment required) 
of such magnitude as to make it virtually certain that the warrant 
will be exercised. 
If so, the transaction would be equivalent to 
the instalment sale of a security which, in the Board's view, a 
broker/dealer is forbidden to make under section 220.7(a). 
For the reasons discussed below, the Board does not con-
sider that the sale of interests in Properties would be equivalent 
to an instalment sale under the particular facts described in 
Amendment No. 1 to Form S-ll for Properties, as supplemented by 
additional historical information submitted to the Board's staff 
with the letter dated October 5, 1973, from Mr. llarwood. 
i 

N O ALIO a r 
G O V E R N O R S 
O F T H E 
F E D E R A L 
R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Matthew Weld, Esq. 
- 2 
The- Board has concluded that a broker/dealer who sells a 
security containing a provision for instalment payments is arranging 
for the extension of credit to purchase the security (12 C.F.R. 
220.124). 
Thus if the 1973 unit and the 1974 units are regarded as 
a single*security and the sale is considered to be made for instal-
ment: payments, $5 thousand in each of the two years, section 220.7(a) 
would be applicable. 
The Board is of the view that the sale of a limited part-
nership interest combined with a warrant to purchase another such 
interest may constitute the arranging for credit, proscribed by 
section 220.7(a) of Regulation 'J' where the economic penalty for non-
exercise of the warrant (when weighed against the new investment 
required) is such that the purchaser of the first interest would not 
have a penuine choice as to whether or not to put up the money for 
the second interest. 
In such a case, the purchaser would, for prac-
tical purposes, be in the same position as a person who had purchased 
a security payable in two instalments. ,The Board recognizes, however, 
that many securities are sold with a warrant to purchase a second 
security where the transaction does not have the characteristics of 
an instalment sale. 
The only provision which might be considered to constitute 
such an economic penalty for non-exercise of the warrants would be 
the provision that 95 per cent of the financing expenses for 1974 in 
respect, of Properties will be allocated solely to limited partners 
who purchase interests in that year. 
Persons who purchase units in 
Properties in 1973 and do not exercise their warrants, therefore, 
will not receive flow-through benefits for the year 1974. 
In subse-
quent: years, the allocations will be the same for all units. 
It is represented in the materials submitted Co the Board's 
staff that as a result of such allocation, total tax benefits to be 
received in respect of units purchased in 1973 are expected to be 
substantially equivalent to total tax benefits to be received in 
respect of 1974 interests. 
The question whether this allocation is 
sufficient to compel exercise of the warrants is complicated, of 
course, by the presence of other relevant factors, such as whether 
present tax treatment will continue to be available, the status of 
the properties purchased with proceeds of the sale of the issue, and 
individual circumstances of the purchasers. As to the latter, tax 
losses for a particular year arc of no benefit to a person who has 
no other income against which to offset them. 

OOAKD OF DDVERNDUB OF TlllI fEDEHAU KESERVE LiYEiTCM 
41«9 
Matthew Weld, Esq. 
The DLJ ProperUi.es/73 offering is patterned after an offer-
ing of DLJ Properties/72 which was sold in November and December of 
1972, Thus it is possible to compare the forecast for Properties 
with actual experience in respect of the earlier offering. 
Tax 
losses in 1973 on the 1972 offering, which will be allocated solely 
to purchasers exercising warrants in 1973, are estimated to be 
slightly less than those in 1972, so that the return to be forfeited 
on the new investment by a purchaser failing to exercise his warrant 
would be slightly less than the return he obtains in his original 
investment. 
In fact, of the 189 limited partners who purchased 
interests in DLJ Properties/72, '11 (or-about 8 per cent) did not 
exercise their warrants. 
Those interests will lie sold in the market. 
On balance, in view of all the factors set forth above, the 
Board is unable to conclude that a person purchasing a limited partner-
ship interest in Properties would suffer a significant economic penalty 
if; lie does not exercise the warrant entitling him to purchase an addi-
tional unit in 1974. The sale of interests in Properties would not, 
therefore, be considered to be.a sale of a security for instalment 
payment, and broker/dealers selling such interests would not be deemed 
to be "arranging" for the extension of credit in violation of section 
220.7(a) of Regulation 'f. 
The views expressed above are confined to the facts as stated. 
Additional or different facts might well compel a different conclusion. 
It is assumed, of course, that both the sale of interests in 1973 and 
the exercise of the warrants in 1974 will comply with all applicable 
provisions of the regulation, particularly the provisions requiring that 
payment be made promptly (but in no more than seven full business days), 
as for purchases effected in the special cash account described in 
section 220.4(c). 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Foldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE PEOPLES SAVINGS BANK COMPANY 
Order Approving Application for Merger of Banks 
The Peoples Savings Bank Company, Delta, Ohio ("Delta Bank"), 
has applied for the Board's approval pursuant to the Bank Merger Act (12 
U.S.C. 1828(c)) of the merger of that bank with The Farmers State Bank of 
Lyons Ohio, Lyons, Ohio ("Lyons Bank") under the name and charter of Delta 
Bank. Both Delta and Lyons banks are State member banks of the Federal 
Reserve System. It is proposed that upon consummation of this proposal the 
present office of Lyons Bank will be operated as a branch of Delta Bank. 
As required by the Act, notice of the proposed merger, in the 
form approved by the Board, has been published, and the Board has requested 
reports on competitive factors from the Attorney General, the Comptroller 
of the Currency, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
The Board has considered the application and all comments and 
reports in the light of the factors set forth in the Act. 
1/ 
Delta Bank ($11 million of deposits) 
is a subsidiary of 
BancOhio Corporation, Columbus, Ohio, the second largest banking organiza-
tion in Ohio, controlling approximately 9 per cent of total deposits 
of commercial banks in the State. Delta Bank operates one banking office 
located in Delta, Ohio, and holds approximately 11 per cent of total 
deposits of commercial banks in the Fulton County, Ohio, banking market 
(which includes most of Fulton County, Ohio, and portions of Lenawee 
41110 
Item No. 3 
10/29/73 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

41 
-2-
County, Michigan) and is the fourth largest of eight banks operating in 
that market. As a result of consummation of the proposed merger of 
Delta Bank with Lyons Bank ($4 million of deposits) the parent holding 
company's share of total deposits in the State would increase by only 
.01 percentage points and Delta Bank's share of deposits in the rele-
vant market would increase to 15 per cent. Delta bank will become the 
third largest bank in this market. 
Lyons Bank operates one banking office in the predominately 
rural north central portion of the Fulton County banking market and is 
the seventh largest of eight banks operating in that market. The single 
office of Lyons Bank is located approximately 13 miles from Delta Bank. 
The three largest banks in this market control approximately 64 per cent 
of the total deposits. 
Although located in the same banking market, little competition 
exists between Delta and Lyons banks as their service areas do not over-
lap to a significant extent. Delta Bank obtains approximately 2.5 per 
cent of its deposits and 3.5 per cent of its loans from the area served 
by Lyons Bank. Lyons Bank derives approximately 1.0 per cent of deposits 
and 2 per cent of its loans from the area served by Delta Bank. 
Delta and Lyons banks are permitted by Ohio law to branch 
into each others service area, however, the record indicates little likeli 
hood of such expansion occuring in the forseeable future. The population 
to banking office ratio of the area served by Lyons Bank is significantly 
below the average for Fulton County and far below the average for the 

4132 
-3-
State. In addition, in view of its small size, it is doubtful that 
Lyons Bank has sufficient financial and managerial resources to contem-
plate branching in the forseeable future. Although two bank subsidiaries 
of BancOhio Corporation are located in counties adjacent to Fulton 
County, no substantial competition exists between these banks and Delta 
or Lyons banks. It appears that consummation of the proposal will not 
eliminate any meaningful existing or future competition between any of 
Applicant * s subsidiary banks and between Delta and Lyons banks. Accordingly, 
the Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition would 
have only a slightly adverse effect on existing competition in the Fulton 
banking market. The proposed merger, however, by increasing the com-
petitive capability of Delta Bank, may result in increasing future com-
petition among the largest banks in the Fulton banking market. 
The financial and managerial resources of both Delta and Lyons 
banks are satisfactory and the prospects for Delta Bank upon consummation of 
the proposal herein appear favorable. Consequently, banking factors are 
consistent with approval of the application. There is no evidence in the 
record that the banking needs of the Fulton County banking market are 
going unserved at the present time. It is proposed, however, that con-
summation of the proposal herein will result in an increase in the range 
of banking services available to customers now served by Lyons Bank. 
Delta Bank presently provides a wide range of consumer savings accounts, 
installment and commercial loan services and credit card services, some of 
which are not offered by Lyons Bank, These services would become available 

4193 
-4-
upon consummation of this proposal. In addition, through its parent hold-
ing company, Delta Bank presently offers farm equipment leasing services 
which could become more readily available to residents of the Lyons area 
upon consummation of the proposed merger. Considerations relating to the 
convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent with 
approval of the application and lend some weight thereto. It is the Board's 
judgment that the slightly adverse effect of the proposed merger on existing 
competition would be outweighed by the benefits to the banking convenience 
and needs of customers to be served by Delta Bank and that consummation 
of the proposal would be in the public interest, and that the application 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective October 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Brimmer, Sheehan, 
Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governors Mitchell and Daane. 

; 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
• 
OF THE 
Item No. 4 -
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 0 / 2 9 / 7 3 
Otf^'Ak • 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
7-Vlr' 11 If 11 
' 
' 
' 
' 
A D D R E S S nrriniAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
* ^ - I S I J I I V - V Y ^ . * 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
October 29, 1973 
Trust Company of Georgia ' 
P o0. Drawer 4418 
Atlanta, Georgia 
30302 
Gentlemen: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
grants its permission t:o Trust Company of Georgia, Atlanta, Georgia 
pursuant to the provisions of Sections 9 and 25 of the Federal Re-
serve Act, to establish a branch in Georgetown, Grand Cayman, 
Cayman Islands, and to operate and maintain such branch subject to 
the provisions of such Sections and Regulation M„ 
In granting this permission, it is understood that the 
branch will be used for developing new international business and not 
as a means of shifting loans or deposits from offices in the United 
States. 
It is also understood that there is to be no contact with 
the local public at the branch, and that its quarters, staff, and -
bookkeeping may, at least in part, be supplied under contract by an-
other party. 
In view of the special character of this operation, the 
foregoing permission is granted subject to (1) a continuing review of 
these types of activities, and after due notice may be withdrawn or 
modified, (2) the condition that reserves shall be maintained 
against deposits in this branch under Section 213,7 of Regulation M 
without benefit of the exclusions in provisos (1) and (2) of 
vSection 213.7(b), and (3) the further condition that-adequate 
informat ion covering the branch's operations will be maintained at 
your head office and will be available to the Board and its 
accredited representatives. 
The Board should be promptly informed 
of any modification in the branch's methods of operation, 
including changes in any contract under which services are supplied 
to the branch. 
Permission to establish the proposed branch is also granted 
subject to the condition that Trust Company of Georgia shall 
liquidate its Nassau branch within six month of the opening of the 
Georgetown branch. 

4 1 1 ) 5 
Trust Company of Georgia 
-2— 
Unless the branch is actually established and opened for 
business on or before November 1, 1974, all rights granted hereby 
shall be deemed to have been abandoned and the authority hereby 
granted will automatically terminate on that date. . 
• 
Please advise the Board of Governors, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Atlanta, when the branch is opened for business, fur-
nishing information as to the exact location of the branch. 
The 
Board should also be promptly informed of any future change in 
location of the branch in Georgetown. 
Under Section 19 of the Federal Reserve Act, deposits 
payable only at a branch of a member bank located outside of the 
States of the United States and the District of Columbia are exempt 
from any limitations on rates of interest prescribed in Section 19 
and Regulation Q„ 
Also, deposits at such branches are not generally 
subject to the reserve requirements of Regulation D. 
The general 
purpose of these exemptions is to allow foreign branches of the United 
States banks to compete abroad with foreign banks. 
In these circum-
stances, it has long been a n d continues to be the policy of the 
Federal Reserve System to discourage deposits by United States 
residents at foreign branches of United States banks unless such 
deposits have been placed to serve a definite, necessary purpose in 
connection with foreign or international transactions outside the 
United States. 
With respect to the establishment of foreign branches, funds 
provided by home office (whether in the form of allocated capital, 
advances, or otherwise) should be regarded as foreign assets for pur-
poses of the foreign credit restraint effort. 
In view of the Board's 
concern with minimizing the impact of foreign investments on the bal-
ance of payments, the above consent is given on the condition that in 
the conduct of the branch's operation maximum reliance will be placed 
on resources obtained outside the United States. Accordingly, it is 
understood that any investment required will be made within the Foreign 
v Credit Restraint Guidelines as they apply to your bank and its 
affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
