MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
November 29, 1973 

.. 4 G 8 7 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Thursday, November 29, 1973. The Board met in the Special 
Library at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Partee, Managing Director for Research and 
Economic Policy and Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Managing Director for Operations 
and Supervision 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Ettin, Associate Adviser, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Pizer, Adviser, Division of International Finance 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Supervi-
sion and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia, Technical Assistant, Office of the 
Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
of Citizens Bank and Trust Company, Clare, Michigan, to issue capital 
notes. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 

4688 
11/29/73 
-2-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Zions Utah 
Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, to acquire shares of Central Finance 
Corporation, Portland, Oregon, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
that decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 2. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of First Tennessee 
National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the successors 
by merger to (1) Mosheim Bank, Mosheim; (2) Sumner County Bank and Trust 
Company, Gallatin; and (3) National Bank of Murfreesboro, Murfreesboro, 
all in Tennessee. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
these decisions. A copy is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Schroder 
International Limited and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Schroder Interna-
tional Holdings Limited, both of London, England, to become bank holding 
companies through indirect acquisition of shares of Schroder Trust Company, 
New York, New York. The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
these decisions. A copy is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously denied the application of Philadelphia 
National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to acquire shares of 
Hartzler Mortgage Company, Columbus, Ohio. Discussion having developed 
agreement upon changes in a draft that had been prepared, the Board 
authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision in the form 
attached as Item No. 5. 
Pursuant to the recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in a memorandum dated November 23, 1973, the Board unanimously 

4689 
11/29/73 
-3-
approved expansion of the regional check processing center at the Memphis 
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis to include 164 banks in 
Mississippi. A copy of the letter sent to the Reserve Bank is attached 
as Item No. 6. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
NOW accounts. At several recent meetings, in preparation for a 
meeting on November 26, 19 73, of the Interagency Coordinating Committee 
on Bank Regulation, the Board had discussed positions it wished to take 
with respect to the issues involved in regulating accounts subject to 
negotiable orders of withdrawal (NOW accounts). The positions taken at 
the Committee meeting by the other interested authorities were summarized 
in a memorandum dated November 26 from Messrs. Melnicoff and Raiken (the 
latter of the Legal Division). 
At today's meeting there was further discussion regarding the 
extent to which the Board might be willing to modify its preferred positions 
to accommodate the views of the other agencies and the points regarding 
which it wished to persevere. 
At the conclusion of the discussion it was understood that nego-
tiations would continue in the light of the views expressed. 
The following staff members then joined the meeting: 
Mr. Tuttie, Assistant General Counsel 
Messrs. Gemmill and Norwood, Advisers, 
Division of International Finance 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division 
of Supervision and Regulation 

4 « e o 
11/29/73 
-4-
International banking regulation. In a memorandum dated Novem-
ber 28, 1973, the System Steering Committee on International Banking 
Regulation recommended that the Board adopt in principle an attached 
"Statement on Nondiscrimination in International Banking" as a set of 
guiding principles for the reform of international banking regulation. 
The Committee recommended also that the Board endorse, in principle, 
the general regulatory approach of (1) allowing U.S. banks operating 
in foreign countries to engage in the same types of activities as 
indigenous domestic banks in each country, to the extent foreign 
authorities allow, but (2) with the Board officially prohibiting in 
all countries such activities as it deems inimical to sound operation 
of U.S. banks abroad. 
Discussion at today's meeting was intended to give guidance 
regarding the tenor of the Board's thinking for the use of representatives 
of the Steering Committee during their discussions of regulation of inter-
national banking with other central bank representatives at meetings in 
Basle, Switzerland, in early December. At the conclusion of the discussion, 
the Board indicated general acceptance, in principle, of the recommendations 
of the Steering Committee as set forth in its memorandum of November 28, 
1973. 
Conference of Chairmen. Among other materials prepared in connection 
with the joint meeting of the Board with the Conference of Chairmen and 
Deputy Chairmen of the Federal Reserve Banks on November 29-30, 1973, 
was a memorandum from Mr. Doyle transmitting a report by a staff working 

4 6 D 1 
11/29/73 
-5-
group established by the Board's Advance Planning Committee with a view 
to specifying the parameters of a goals and objectives process for the 
Board. The report was intended to assist the Board in responding to 
items on the Chairmen's Conference agenda that would appear to require 
consultation with the Board on a goals-oriented management process for 
the Reserve Banks. 
Discussion at today's meeting included expressions of reservations 
by members of the Board on the ground that an effort to lay down inter-
mediate and long-term goals such as the Reserve Bank Chairmen apparently 
contemplated would require a drain on Board resources out of proportion 
to the gains that might be realized. Another view, however, held that it 
might be possible to have the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
formulate goals for consideration by the Advance Planning Committee and 
brief review by the Board. 
The continuing discussion not having developed a consensus, it 
w a s understood that discussions with the Conference of Chairmen would 
avoid any commitment to specifying goals. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg, Allison, 
Melnicoff, O'Connell, Solomon, and Leavitt. 
Franklin National Bank. Mr. Solomon reported on possible financial 
difficulties faced by Franklin National Bank, New York, New York. He said 
that Franklin National Bank was being examined now by the Comptroller of 

4632 
11/29/73 
-6-
the Currency and that as further information regarding Franklin National's 
condition became available, the Board would be kept informed. 
The meeting then adjourned. 
Secretary 

v&sy&u;. 
BOARD DF G O V E R N O R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 1 
11/29/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D S * 
TO T H E 
B O A R D 
November 29, 19 73 
Board of Directors 
Citizens Bank and Trust Company 
Clare, Michigan 
Gentlemen: 
n 
o r t / P U m w ^ 0 x 8 e C t i o n 217.1(f) (3) (i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the l-ederal Reserve System approves the issuance of $1 million in 
subordinated capital notes by Citizens Bank and Trust Company, ' 
Clare, Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank 
or Chicago. This approval is given on the condition that, aside 
from fixed annual prepayments to begin in 1984, the capital notes 
cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without the 
approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with 
the understanding that the sale of the capital notes will be con-
summated within six months from the date of this letter. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Theodore E. Allison 
Theodore E. Allison 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 

4694 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 2 
11/29/73 
ZIONS UTAH BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Central Finance Corporation 
Zions Utah Bancorporation, Salt Lake City, Utah, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the 
Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all 
of the voting shares of Central Finance Corporation, Portland, Oregon 
("CFC"), a company that engages in the activities of making consumer 
instalment loans, purchasing consumer instalment sales finance contracts, 
financing dealer inventory, and acting as agent in the sale of credit 
life, accident and health insurance to the consumer borrowers of CFC. 
Such activities have been determined by the Board to be closely related 
to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has been duly published (38 Federal Register 28117). The time for 
filing comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls two banks in Utah with aggregate deposits 
of approximately $408 million, comprising 16.1 per cent of the State's 
total bank deposits.]./ Applicant also controls as wholly-owned sub-
sidiaries , two consumer loan companies (operating in Idaho and Utah), 
a thrift loan company (operating in Utah), and six industrial banks 
1/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972. 

- 2 -
469.' 
(operating in Colorado). CFC is a consumer finance company operating 
out of one office in downtown Portland, Oregon, with total assets of 
$486,000 (as of May 31, 1973). No subsidiary of Applicant derives 
a significant amount of business from the area served by CFC. 
Conversely, CFC does not serve areas served by* subsidiaries of 
Applicant. Therefore, it appears that consummation of the proposal 
would not eliminate any existing competition between Applicant and 
CFC. Further, no adverse competitive effects would appear to result 
from removal of Applicant as a potential competitor of CFC. Appli-
cant is not considered a likely de novo entrant into the Portland 
market in view of the statutory and regulatory requirements imposed 
by the Oregon Consumer Finance Act. In addition, removal of CFC would 
not adversely affect the Portland consumer finance market, as numerous 
alternative sources of consumer credit are available. Moreover, due to the 
limited nature of CFC's insurance activities, it does not appear that Appli 
cant's acquisition of the insurance agency business of CFC would have 
a significantly adverse eftect on competition in this product line. 
The Board concludes that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
would have no significant adverse effects on existing or potential 
competition in any relevant area. 
It is anticipated that CFC's affiliation with Applicant, 
by providing access to the latter's greater financial and managerial 
resources, will enhance CFC's competitive effectiveness and enable 
it to expand the range of services it offers. There is no evidence 
in the record indicating that consummation of the proposed transaction 

4696 
-3U 
would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair competition, 
conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other adverse 
effects on the public interest. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 
4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. 
This determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 
225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such 
modification or termination of the activities of a holding company or 
any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure com-
pliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's 
regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion 
thereof. 
The transaction shall not be made later than three 
months after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
Bank of San Francisco pursuant to delegated authority granted 
herewith. 
By order of the Board of Governors,2/ effective November 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
y Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

4G97 
Item No. 3 
11/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST TENNESSEE NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
First Tennessee National Corporation, Memphis, Tennessee, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares of the 
successors by merger to Mosheim Bank ("Mosheira Bank"), Mosheim, Tennessee; 
Sumner County Bank and Trust Company ("Sumner Bank"), Gallatin, Tennessee; 
and National Bank of Murfreesboro ("Murfreesboro Bank"), Murfreesboro, 
Tennessee. The banks into which Mosheim Bank, Sumner Bank, and Murfreesboro 
Bank ("Subject Banks") are to be merged have no significance except 
as a means to facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Subject 
Banks. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
organizations is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
shares of Subject Banks. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
expired, and the Board has considered the applications nnd all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

4698 
- 2 -
Applicant controls nine banks with aggregate deposits of 
$1.2 billion, representing about 11.5 per cent of the total deposits 
in commercial banks in Tennessee, and ranks as the largest banking 
organization in the State. (Banking data are as of June 30, 1973, 
adjusted to reflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
by the Board through October 31, 1973.) The acquisition of Subject 
Banks (combined total deposits of $33.6 million) would not result in 
a significant increase in the concentration of banking resources in 
Tennessee. 
Mosheim Bank, the smallest of three banks in the relevant 
banking market (approximated by Greene County), controls about 10 per 
cent of total market deposits with the two larger banks having approximately 
49 and 41 per cent respectively of deposits in the market. Applicant 
has two banking subsidiaries located about 25 miles from Mosheim Bank, 
but there is no significant existing competition between Mosheim Bank 
and these or any other of Applicants banking subsidiaries. On the 
facts of record, particularly the distances involved and Tennessee's 
restrictive branching laws, there is little probability of substantial 
future competition developing between any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries 
and Mosheim Bank. There is little likelihood that Applicant would 
enter the Greene County market de novo. The Board concludes that the 
Proposed acquisition of Mosheim Bank will not have any substantially 
/ 
adverse effects on future competition. 

4699 
-3-
Sumner Bank, the smallest of seven banking organizations 
in its relevant banking market, which is approximated by Sumner County, 
controls about 9 per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in 
the market. There is no existing substantial competition between Sumner 
Bank and any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries with the closest banking 
subsidiary located approximately 25 miles distant in another county. 
Nor is there a probability of substantial future competition developing 
between any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Sumner Bank on 
the record herein in light of the distances involved and Tennessee 
branching laws. Applicant is not a probable future entrant into the 
relevant banking market since the market is relatively unattractive 
as measured by the deposits and population per banking office ratios 
which are considerably lower than the corresponding ratios for the 
State. Based on the record, the Board considers that competitive con-
siderations relating to this application are consistent with approval 
of the application. 
The Murfreesboro Bank is the third largest of six banks located 
In its relevant banking market which is approximated by Rutherford 
County and controls about 14 per cent of the total deposits in commercial 
banks in the market. The closest banking subsidiary of Applicant to 
Murfreesboro Bank is about 40 miles distant in another county, and 
there is no substantial existing competition between Murfreesboro Bank 
and any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. On the facts herein, 
Including the distances involved and Tennessee branching law, there 

-4-
4700 
is little probability of substantial competition developing between 
any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Murfreesboro Bank. Applicant 
is not likely to enter the Rutherford County banking market since the 
deposits and population per banking office ratios for the market are 
lower than the corresponding ratios for the State. Moreover, acquisition 
of Murfreesboro Bank by Applicant may enhance competition since Applicant's 
acquisition of Murfreesboro Bank may enable the latter to become a 
more vigorous competitor of the two dominant organizations in the market, 
which banks have almost 80 per cent of deposits of the market. Based 
on the facts of record, the Board finds that competitive considerations 
of this application are consistent with its approval. Finally, based 
on the facts of record, including the distances involved and the Tennessee 
branching law, consummation of the acquisitions of Mosheim Bank, Sumner 
Bank, and Murfreesboro Bank would not eliminate substantial existing 
or future competition between the three banks. 
The managerial and financial resources and future prospects 
of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, Mosheim Bank, Murfreesboro Bank, 
and Sumner Bank are all generally satisfactory. Applicant's acquisition 
of Sumner Bank is expected to result in added capital for the bank 
and will provide for management succession for the Sumner Bank. Applicant's 
acquisition of Mosheim Bank and Murfreesboro Bank is also expected 
to result in additional capital for those banks. These considerations 
weigh in support of approval of the applications. Considerations relating 

4701 
-5-
to the convenience and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
with approval of the applications. It is the Board's judgment that 
consummation of the proposed acquisitions would be in the public interest 
and that the applications should be approved. 
Applicant controls two nonbanking subsidiaries, Norlen Life 
Insurance Company, Phoenix, Arizona, and Investors Mortgage Service, 
Inc., Memphis, Tennessee, which were acquired on October 21, 1969, 
and on January 17, 1969, respectively. Norlen reinsures underwriters 
of credit life insurance while Investors acts as a mortgage broker 
and real estate developer through two wholly-owned subsidiaries. In 
approving this application, the Board finds that the combination of 
additional subsidiary banks with Applicant's existing nonbanking subsidi-
aries is unlikely to have adverse effects on the public interest at 
the present time. However, Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities 
remain subject to Board review, and the Board retains the authority 
to require Applicant to modify or terminate its nonbanking activities 
or holdings if the Board at any time determines that the combination 
of Applicant's banking and nonbanking activities is likely to have 
adverse effects on the public interest. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be executed 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 

4702 
- 6 -
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
this Order unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board 
or by the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective November 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane, 

4703 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
11/29/73 
SCHRODER INTERNATIONAL LIMITED AND 
SCHRODER INTERNATIONAL HOLDINGS LIMITED 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Companies 
Schroder International Limited ("Schroder International") and 
Its wholly-owned subsidiary, Schroder International Holdings Limited 
("Schroder Holdings"), both of London, England, have applied for the 
Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(1) of formation of bank holding companies through 
the indirect acquisition of 99 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Schroder Trust Company, New York, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3(b) of the Act, The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and the Board has considered the applications and all comments received in 
light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)), 
Schroders Limited, London, England, is a foreign bank holding 
company that owns 99 per cent of the voting shares of Bank. In order to 
separate the management of its United Kingdom subsidiaries from that of 
its subsidiaries operating outside of the United Kingdom, Schroders Limited 
Proposes to interpose two subsidiaries, Schroder International and its 
wholly-owned subsidiary, Schroder Holdings, between Schroders Limited and 
Batik. The transactions proposed herein are part of a plan of reorganiza-
tion which will not result in a change in the ultimate control of Bank nor 
affect the status of the Schroders Limited bank holding company system. 

4704 
1/ 
Bank, with deposits of approximately $106 million, is the 
46th largest of 85 commercial banks in the New York City banking market, 
controlling less than one per cent of total deposits in commercial banks in 
that market. On the basis of the record herein, the Board concludes that 
consummation of the proposal would not eliminate any existing or potential 
competition, increase the concentration of banking resources, nor have an 
adverse effect on the other banks in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects of 
Bank, Schroder Holdings and Schroder Limited are regarded as satisfactory. 
Considerations relating to convenience and needs of the communities to be 
served are consistent with approval. It is the Board's judgment that the 
proposed acquisition would be consistent with the public interest and that 
the applications should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be made (a) before 
the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order or 
(b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Bank 
°f New York pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, effective November 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
1/ 
Banking data are as of June 30, 1973, 
2/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
Sheehan, Bucher and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane. 

. 4705 
Item No. 5 
11/29/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PHILADELPHIA NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Denying Acquisition of Hartzler Mortgage Company 
Philadelphia National Corporation, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act, has applied for the Board's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act 
and § 225.4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the 
voting shares of Hartzler Mortgage Company, Columbus, Ohio ("Hartzler"), 
a company that engages in the activities of originating, purchasing, 
selling and servicing real estate mortgage loans. Such activities have 
been determined by the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 
225.4(a)(1) and (3)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 22188). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none ha3 been timely received. 
Applicant's sole banking subsidiary, Philadelphia National 
Bank ("Bank"), is the fourth largest bank in Pennsylvania and among the 
25 largest in the nation. It has total deposits of about $2 billion 
representing 5.3 per cent of total domestic deposits in commercial banks 
in the State,^ Applicant engages in the mortgage banking business 
T T A U T ^ n k i n g data are as of June 30, 1973, adjusted to reflect 
acquisitions approved through September 1, 1973. 

4706 
- 2 -
through a direct subsidiary, Colonial Associates, Inc., and through two 
indirect subsidiaries, Colonial Mortgage Service Company and Colonial 
Mortgage Service Company of California, both of which are present sub-
sidiaries of Bank.^ In terms of volume of mortgages serviced, the 
two affiliated Colonial Mortgage Service Companies ("Colonial") are, 
combined, the sixth largest mortgage banking companies in the nation 
with a portfolio of $1.5 billion. The acquisition of Hartzler and 
its affiliation with Colonial would advance Colonial to fifth in the 
national ranking of mortgage banking companies. 
Hartzler engages in the origination of FHA/VA guaranteed 
mortgage loans on single-family residences and in the servicing of mort-
gages from its headquarters in Columbus and a branch office in Mansfield, 
65 miles to the north. In 1972, Hartzler originated approximately 
$12.2 million in mortgage loans and as of December, 1972, was servicing 
a mortgage loan portfolio of $93.4 million. Hartzler's loan originations 
3/ 
of $4.7 million In the Columbus market" in 1972 represented 1 per cent 
of total originations in 1-4 family residential loans in that area. 
Hartzler'a market share in 1972 of residential loan originations 
4/ 
in the Mansfield market was somewhat larger,"" representing 8.4 per 
cent of all 1-4 family residential loans for that area. 
2/ Bank acquired the Colonial Mortgage Service Companies in 1968, and 
Applicant has applied to the Board under § 4(c)(8) of the Act to transfer 
them from Bank to Applicant's direct control. 
3/ The Columbus market includes Franklin County plus contiguous townships 
in surrounding counties. 
4/ The Mansfield market includes Richland County and adjacent townships to 
the east. 

-3-
4707 
Colonial is Applicant's only direct or indirect subsidiary 
which is 
a position to compete with Hartzler in either the Columbus 
or Mansfield markets. Colonial has an office in Columbus and originated 
$12 million in mortgage loans, or 2 per cent of the total mortgage 
originations in the Columbus market in 1972. However, Colonial originates 
only construction and commercial loans while Hartzler deals exclusively 
in the separate product market of residential loans. The proposed 
transaction, therefore, would not eliminate any direct competition between 
the two institutions. 
There are fifteen mortgage companies (including Colonial) with 
offices in the Columbus market. Hartzler ranked eleventh among these 
companies in 1972 in terms of its volume of mortgage loan originations. 
Nine of these fifteen mortgage companies rank among the top 100 mortgage 
firms in the nation. All nine of these firms are subsidiaries of a 
larger holding company or corporation or are awaiting regulatory agency 
approval to become so affiliated. This proposed acquisition would 
eliminate one of the largest of the few independent mortgage banking 
companies that remain in the Columbus market. In addition, the presence 
of such large established mortgage banking firms, several of which are 
headquartered in Ohio or the neighbor State of Indiana, has limited the 
attractiveness of the Columbus market for de novo entry. Removal of 
a remaining independent mortgage banker by a significant competitor 
presently in the market may further restrict the ability of an outside 
firm to enter the market by raising the entry barriers even higher. 

4708 
-4-
Applicant currently has the capability and interest to commence 
the origination of residential mortgage loans in the Columbus and Mansfield 
markets. Its interest in the Columbus market is manifested through the 
presence of its subsidiary, Colonial, which originated almost $12 million 
in mortgage loans in that market in 1972. Thus, Colonial provides an 
adequate base from which Applicant may expand into the separate product 
market of residential loans. Colonial already has an established office, 
personnel and contacts in the market and a demonstrated capability for 
further expansion. 
At present, Colonial is the sixth largest mortgage banking 
firm in the nation, based upon a mortgage servicing volume of $1.5 billion. 
It seems likely that Colonial will continue to compete aggressively to 
maintain its position as one of the nation's leading mortgage banking 
organizations. It is the Board's judgment that Colonial is likely to 
expand its mortgage activities de novo in the Columbus market to Include 
residential mortgage lending. The Board concludes, therefore, that 
consummation of the proposed transaction is likely to eliminate potential 
competition in both the Columbus and Mansfield markets. The Board has 
reason to believe that Hartzler has the opportunity to affiliate with 
another corporation or holding company and that such affiliation would 
not produce the anticompetitive effects stemming from the present 
proposal. 
Applicant claims that the proposed transaction would result 
in greater availability of loans to the public, improved services, operating 
efficiencies, and a continuation of good management. While the acquisition 

-5-
4709 
of a mortgage company by a bank holding company could have the effect 
of increasing loans to the public and increasing the efficiency of 
the mortgage firm, it appears that such increased efficiency, if it 
came from a bank holding company not now competing or likely to compete 
in the market, would have a substantially more desirable impact on the 
public interest. The Board concludes that such public benefits as would 
be derived from the proposed acquisition do not outweigh the probable 
adverse effects on potential competition. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board concludes that the public interest factors 
the Board is required to consider under § 4(c)(8) do not outweigh possible 
adverse effects and that the request should be denied. Accordingly, 
the application is hereby denied. 
5/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,— effective November 29, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
5/ Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, Bucher, and Holland. Absent and not voting: 
Governor Daane. 

B D A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
4710 
FEDERAL RESERVE 5Y5TEM 
• F THE . 
Item No. 6 
11/29/73 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
address O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
December 3, 1973 
Mr. Eugene A. Leonard 
First Vice President 
Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis 
St. Louis, Missouri 
63166 
Dear Mr. Leonard: 
The Board of Governors has approved 
your request to implement Step 3 of the Memphis 
Branch Regional Check Processing Center expan-
sion. We understand that the increased new 
expense is estimated to be $13,621 per month. 
The Board looks forward to successful 
operation of the expanded Memphis Branch Regional 
Check Processing Center. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
