MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
October 9, 1973 

390-1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, October 9, 1973. The Board met in the Board 
Room at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Feldberg, Secretary 
Mr. Allison, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Altmann, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Doyle, Deputy Director for Management, 
Office of Executive Director 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Burke, Director, Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wiles, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Brown, Technical Assistant, Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the application 
o f Bank of America National Trust and Savings Association, San Francisco, 
Calif 
ornia, to acquire shares of Bank of America (Guernsey) Limited, 
St« Peter Port, Guernsey, Channel Islands. A copy of the letter sent 
to the applicant is attached as Item No. 1. 
y 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

3905 
10/9/73 
-2-
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Division 
°f Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated October 2, 1973, the Board 
unanimously approved establishment of a policy of consolidation of 
cash letters delivered by Federal Reserve Banks to commercial banks, 
where such a practice is feasible. A copy of the letter sent to all 
Federal Reserve Banks is attached as Item No. 2. 
Pursuant to the recommendation in a memorandum from the Division 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations dated October 4, 1973, the Board 
unanimously approved establishment of a uniform policy for naming 
regional check processing centers not located at Federal Reserve Banks 
o r branches. A copy of the letter sent to all Federal Reserve Banks 
in which this uniform format was described is attached as Item No. 3. 
In a memorandum of October 3, 1973, the Legal Division recommended 
that the Board find, under the provisions of section 8 of the Clayton Act 
and Regulation L, that certain interlocking bank relationships on the 
P a r t of an individual are prohibited. The Board concurred in this finding. 
A 
c°Py of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond is 
attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of United Banks 
°f Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of Broomfield 
T) R> "J 
Broomfield, Colorado, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy is attached as Item No. 5. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First Texas 
Bancorp, inc., Georgetown, Texas, to retain shares of First Texas Development 

3906 
10/9/73 
-3-
Corporation, also of Georgetown, and authorized issuance of an order 
reflecting this decision. A copy is attached as Item No, 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of Associated 
Bank Corporation, Davenport, Iowa, to acquire shares of (1) Iowa 
County Savings Bank, Marengo, Iowa, and (2) Leasing, Inc., Des Moines, 
Iowa. The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting these decisions, 
copies of which are attached as Items 7 and 8. 
The Board authorized issuance, with changes in wording, of an 
order reflecting its approval, on September 13, 1973, of the applications 
Michigan National Corporation, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, to acquire 
shares of the successors by merger to the following four banks, all of 
which are located in Michigan: (1) First National Bank of East Lansing, 
East Lansing; (2) Central Bank, National Association, Grand Rapids; 
(3) Valley National Bank of Saginaw, Saginaw; and (4) First National 
Sank of Wyoming, Wyoming. A copy of the order is attached under Item No. 9, 
along with copies of the dissenting statements of Governors Brimmer and 
Holland with respect to the first three applications. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Economic and financial review. The regular weekly economic and 
financial review was presented. Copies of the statistical materials 
prepared for the review have been placed in the Board's files, along 
with copies of the individual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reviewed legislative developments of interest 
to the System. 

3907 
10/9/73 
-4-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Proposed amendment to Regulation Q. Pursuant to its October 4, 
1973, discussion concerning amendment of Regulation Q, Interest on 
Deposits, and a subsequent meeting of the Interagency Coordinating 
Committee on Bank Regulation, the Board today reviewed the position it 
should take with respect to interest rate ceilings and other limitations 
on 4-year time deposits of less than $100,000. With a memorandum of 
October 9, 1973, the Legal Division submitted a draft amendment, and in 
a memorandum of the same date the Division of Research and Statistics 
reported on the matters discussed at the Coordinating Committee meeting 
°n October 4, 1973. 
In today's discussion, the preliminary position adopted by the 
Board on October 4, 1973, was reaffirmed. The consensus of the Board 
was in favor of a 7 per cent interest rate ceiling for 4-year time 
deposits at commercial banks and a ceiling of 7-1/4 per cent at savings 
a^d loan associations. With respect to a proposal for a variable-rate 
ceiling, the view was expressed that such a procedure would be neither 
aPpropriate at this time nor in accordance with Congressional intent. 
With respect to the 5 per cent quantitative limitation, it was generally 
agreed that the limitation should be removed but that in the interest 
°f sound banking practices the total amounts held by banks in this type 
°f 4-year certificate should be monitored. 

3908 
10/9/73 
_5-
It was understood that the Board's position, as outlined 
above, would be presented in further negotiations of the Coordinating 
Committee. 
Proposed Federal funds transactions. In a continuation of its 
discussions on September 27 and October 4, 1973, of the proposal of the 
Federal Home Loan Bank Board to institute a system-wide program of 
transactions in the Federal funds market on behalf of its member savings 
and loan associations, the Board today considered a revised draft of 
a letter that would convey the Board's response to the FHLBB. 
In today's discussion, which focused on the points mentioned 
in the two preceding meetings, a consensus developed that the Federal 
Reserve should vigorously oppose this activity. It was understood 
that the letter would be revised to reflect this position and would be 
Presented to the Board at a later date. 
Staff members responsible for matters subsequently discussed 
in these minutes then joined the meeting. 
Alabama Bancorporation. In a memorandum of September 21, 1973, 
the Division of Research and Statistics and the Division of Supervision 
nnd Regulation recommended approval of the application of Alabama Bancorpo-
ration, Birmingham, Alabama, to acquire shares of the successor by merger 
to Baldwin National Bank of Robertsdale, Robertsdale, Alabama. With a 
memorandum of October 1, 1973, the Legal Division submitted a revised 
draft order concerning this application. 

3909 
10/9/73 
-6-
The Board unanimously approved the application and authorized 
issuance of an order, with changes in wording, reflecting this decision. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 10. 
Coin wrapping service. In a memorandum of October 5, 1973, the 
Executive Committee on Cost Improvement recommended various modifications 
of the Board's policy on coin wrapping service that was established in 
APril 1971. 
In today's discussion, the staff reviewed the proposed modifi-
cations, the main purpose of which would be to reduce costs. Discussion 
revealed that opinions of Board members varied with regard to the principal 
issues involved in any change in the present policy. Questions were 
raised concerning (1) the possible effects of a change in the coin 
tapping policy on the System's relations with member banks; (2) whether 
banks utilizing this service should be required to pay the full cost 
thereof; (3) whether the Federal Reserve System or private firms should 
Provide this service; and (4) if provided by the Federal Reserve, whether 
the service should be uniform throughout the System. 
Although the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks generally 
had expressed agreement with the proposed modifications, the Board 
desired further consultation with the Reserve Bank Presidents and deferred 
action on this matter until next week. 
Equal offer policy. In a memorandum of October 5, 1973, the 
Legal Division reviewed the decision of the United States Court of Appeals 
for the Tenth Circuit in the case of Western Bancshares, Inc. v. Board of 

3910 
10/9/73 
-7-
Governors and recommended that, in view of this decision, the Board 
eliminate its policy of requiring that a bank holding company make 
a n equal offer to all shareholders of any bank it seeks to acquire. 
After discussion, the Board agreed to abandon its policy of 
requiring equal offers, it being understood that an appropriate 
amendment to the Board's Rules Regarding Delegation of Authority would 
be prepared for consideration by the Board. It was further understood 
that the staff would prepare for the Board's consideration legislative 
recommendations that would authorize the Board to re impose such equal 
offer policy. 
In a related matter, the Legal Division in its memorandum of 
October 5, 1973, also recommended that the Board, in compliance with 
the recent court decision, decline to intervene on behalf of the minority 
shareholders of Continental Bank, Phoenix, Arizona, in that bank's 
acquisition by Continental Bancor, Inc., also of Phoenix. The Board 
£££roved this course of action and copies of the letters sent to counsel 
for the parties concerned are attached under Item No. 11. 
The meeting proceeded from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
duPont Trust. Mr. O'Connell reported that the extension of 
time that the Board had granted to the Trustees of the Estate of 
Alfred I. duPont concerning the divestiture of Florida National Banks 
°f Florida, Inc., Jacksonville, Florida, had expired. The duPont Trust 
had submitted a letter dated September 17, 1973, with regard to the 

3911 
10/9/73 
-8-
divestiture program, but Mr. O'Connell sought the Board's permission 
to maintain the confidentiality of this letter for a few days until 
the Board's response was available. The Board approved this procedure. 
All staff members then withdrew except Messrs. Feldberg and 
Melnicoff. 
Chairman Burns reported on arrangements being made to hold a 
telephone conference meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee 
tomorrow morning. A brief discussion followed. 
Chairman Burns then referred to and commented on the significant 
decline in Board member attendance this year, and he said that he would 
comment further on this matter at tomorrow's Board meeting when all 
seven Board members were expected to be present. 
Proposed GAP audit of Federal Reserve System. There followed 
a general discussion of the status of H.R. 10265, a bill to provide 
annual audits of the Federal Reserve System by the General Accounting 
Office. At the conclusion of the discussion, it was understood that the 
staff would prepare a statement setting forth the rationale for the 
Board's position in opposition to the proposed legislation. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

B O A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERALRESERVE SYSTEM 
• F THE 
Item No. 1 
10/9/73 
WASHINGTi.'.' . H. C. 205S1 
A O D ». K TS '3 O r n r . I A U 
C RITIUT T I A N O «•: H C r 
T O 
T H ; : 
D D A R D 
October 10, 19/3 
Bank of America National Trust 
and Sav 11rgs A<;sociat.ion 
Bank of America Center 
San Franc!sco, California 
94120 
Gentlemen: 
As reque,; ted. in your letter of July 25, 1973, the Board of 
Governors grants permission, pursuant to Section 25 of. the Federal 
Receive ^ci: and Regulation M, Cor Bank of America National Trust and 
Savings Association ("BA"), to purchase and hold all the sit ares 
of Bank of America (Guernsey) Limited ("BAG") St. Peter Port, Guernsey, 
Channel Islands at a to':al cost of approximate'.!y $3.SO,000, provided 
the shares are acquired tfi thin ore year from t he date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed holding of the si ares 
BAG by BA is granted subject to the .to I lowing cone it ions: 
(1) That such shares be disposed of as promptly as 
practicable if BAG shall in any mariner engage 
in activity or take, any action whatsoever 
thai: would not be. permissible if BAG were a 
corporation organized under Section 25(a) of the 
Federal Reserve Act not "engaged in banking"; 
(2) That, when requested by the Board of Governors, 
BA will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of BAG as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by 
BAG be reported under Section 211.8(d) of 
Regulation K in the same manner as if BAG were 
a corporation organized under Section 25(a) of 
the Federal Reserve Act. 

3913 
Subject to continuing observaLion and review, the Board 
suspendr. j until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Sec Lion 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
The Board has noted that: as of August 31, 1973 the foreign 
loans and investments of BA exceeded the B ride Line ceiling applicable 
under the Foreign Credit Restraint Program. The foregoing consent is 
granted with the unclersrandine, that those loans and investments will 
be reduced promptly so as to eliminate any excess over the guideline 
ceiling and on the condition that the invesfcment will be made only 
when there is adequate leeway under the guideline ceiling. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
CI i e s t e r B. F e 1 d b e r g 
Secretary of the Board 

I R E S * ? . ' 
331] 
BOARD OF 
G D V E R N • R S 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 2 
10/9/73 
S-2246 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPDNOENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 10, 1973 
c- 
With the continuing development of the regional check 
t e ^ r i n 6 concept, the Board believes there is a need for further 
Inement of the operating principles of these newly established 
inters. 
c 
In its statement of February 2, 1972, the System Steering 
theR 
6 6 ° n I m P r o v i n S the Payments Mechanism, with the concurrence of 
Board, stated that "the nation's check payments system should evolve 
koth m a n n e r t h a t w i l 1 achieve overall efficiency, taking into account 
eco 
P U b l i c a n d Private costs." The statement further alluded to possible 
a n d
n° m i e a in sorting practices where branching systems, correspondents, 
Pro 
company processing centers have led toward consolidation of 
Ce £ e 8 s i n8« 
It was envisioned that these consolidated processing 
*ed 
W o u l d " r e d u c e t h e volume of work at the clearing center by 
datiCinS t h e n u m b e r o f e n d points for sorted checks through consoli-
it w° n ° f i t e m s destined to the same processing center." Further, 
for 9 8 s t a t e d that "arrangements of this type which can be devised 
int G a C h c l e a r i n 8 center are indicative of the way in which closer 
8ifcn?fati0n of Federal Reserve and coirmercial bank activities can 
ficantly reduce overall check handling and transportation costs." 
Consistent with the above statements, the Board has adopted 
^"oiatcuL wiLit m e aoove statements, cne ooara nas aaopcea 
a U F 
y t h e c o n s o li d ation, as soon as practical, of check sorting at 
Ptoc 6 d e r a l R e s e^ve offices where items are destined to a single 
n°tif!8in8 p o i n t - 
I n this connection, conanercial banks should be 
c e n t ®d that separate sorting to branch bank institutions performing 
be 
check processing and accounting for their branches will 
begi 
° n t i n u e d by J u l y 
1974. Federal Reserve offices should also 
an,... t o undertake necessary steps to encourage centralized accounting 
^JJJ^ 
_ _ _ _ 
_ _ 
d e n t? ^anks whose branches perform processing and accounting indepen-
Con8oi<°f t h e h e a d office in order to facilitate the expansion of the 
lidated sort procedure to its fullest potential as soon as possible, 

The practice of consolidation of sorting is also to he 
Courfcge<l for correspondent banks or service bureaus to whom the 
ihr] **Gfct:ors 
holding company affiliated or nonaffiliated 
SD\??endenC banks a r e delivered for processing and accounting. 
t.o°Cia^ (^eP0£it o r other arrangements, which might be made available 
, organisations accepting consolidated cash letter sorts to elicit 
^ 
r cooperation, should be coordinated among the Reserve Banks to 
n*mize inter-regional inequities. 
Very truly yours 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary 
PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
0 VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
• F T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 3 
10/9/73 
S-2247 
ADDRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE BOARD 
October 11, 1973 
As the development of Regional Check Processing Centers continues, 
the Board recognizes the need for a suitable and uniform Systemwide name 
centers that are not located at Reserve Bank or Branch offices. The 
fioard is Gf the opinion that the name should indicate Federal Reserve System 
filiation and not be restrictive in denoting purpose or function of the 
f^ili ty # 
The intent is to establish a name that will remain suitable 
8nould additional functions be assigned to these centers in the future. 
Consistent with the above considerations, the Board has adopted 
Policy the following name designation for existing and future Regional 
"Gck Processing Centers not located at Reserve Banks or Branches. 
Office - Federal Reserve Bank of 
example of the use of this designation is "Des Moines Office - Federal 
^aerve Bank of Chicago." 
, 
The Board recognizes that it will take some time to conform 
h e names of all existing Regional Check Processing Centers to the new 
°*tnat, but hopes that such action can be taken as expeditiously as 
p°S8ible. 
Yours sincerely, 
, , 
/
V
w
-
O -
Chester B. Feldberg 
I 
Secretary 
T o THE PRESIDENTS OF ALL FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS 
THE VICE PRESIDENTS IN CHARGE OF BRANCHES 

J i l k -
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
• F THE 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
20551 
... 3917 
Item No. 4 
10/9/73 
AOORcaa arriciAL C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
October 10, 1973 
William D. Martin, Esq. 
Assistant General Counsel 
Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 23261 
Dear Mr. Martin: 
This refers to your letter of August 23, 1973, concerning 
Aether Miss Resel Gosnell, an employee of the South Carolina National 
Bank, Charleston, South Carolina, is eligible under section 8 of the 
Clayton Act and the Board's Regulation L to serve also as a director 
First State National Bank, Jackson, South Carolina. Counsel for 
**iss Gosnell suggests that the Board determine the towns of North 
Augusta and Belevedere, South Carolina (wherein the bank's offices are 
located), are not contiguous or adjacent and that, accordingly, the 
exemption provided by section 8(5) of the Act would apply. 
The record indicates that the towns in question are four 
^les apart, well connected by a highway, roads, and intersecting 
streets, where numerous retail establishments are located to serve 
both towns, and that notwithstanding some open areas, "there is no 
sense of passage from one to the other". It appears that North 
Au8usta and Belvedere are located, in the language of footnote 8 
to Regulation L, "in such close proximity and are so readily acessible 
t o each other as to be in practical effect a single city". The Board 
has concluded, therefore, that the exemption in section 8(5) of the 
Clayton Act does not apply and that the dual service of employee 
aud director would be prohibited by the Act. Please convey the substance 
this letter to the attorney representing Miss Gosnell. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 

. 3918 
FEDERAL E&SERvk SYSTEM 
Item No. 5 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC. 
10/9/73 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a bank 
Elding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
aPplied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of 
Broomfield Bank, Broomfield, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
v i th § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
Spired, and the Board has considered the application and all comments 
received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 14 banks with aggregate deposits of 
$886 million representing 14.7 per cent of commercial bank deposits 
Colorado and is the second largest banking organization in the 
State. (All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect 
bank holding company formations and acquisitions approved by the 
Board through August 31, 1973.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits of 
million) would not significantly increase the concentration 
o f banking resources in Colorado. 
Applicant is the second largest of 46 banking organizations 
iri the relevant banking market which is approximated by Denver, 

3919 
-2-
Adams, Arapahoe, and Jefferson Counties and a small area of Boulder 
County. Within the relevant market, x\pplicant has five banking subsidiaries 
x,7hich hold aggregate deposits of $679 million representing 18.9 per 
cent of market deposits. Bank has 0.3 per cent of the deposits in 
tke Denver banking market and ranks as the 34th largest banking organiza-
tion in the market. 
Bank is located approximately 13 miles northwest of Denver 
in Boulder County. If 
The present chairman of the board of directors 
o f Applicant was instrumental in establishing Bank in 1958 and has 
been Bank's principal shareholder since that time. He presently owns 
6 3 per cent of Bank's shares and members of his immediate family own 
^ additional 5 per cent of Bank's shares. At the time of Bank's 
organization, this individual was the chief executive officer of the 
bank which became the lead bank of Applicant following Applicant's 
formation. Based on these facts and other facts of record, the existing 
relationship between Applicant and Bank appears to be close, long 
standing, of a continuous nature, and unlikely to be broken in the 
near future. Analysis of the deposits and loans of Bank and of Applicant's 
banking subsidiaries indicates that there is no substantial existing 
competition between Bank and any of Applicant's banking subsidiaries. 
a t Applicant has two other banking subsidiaries in Boulder County 
located approximately 13 and 18 miles from Bank, but neither is 
considered to compete with Bank or to be located in the relevant 
banking market. 

-3-
One of Applicant's nonbanking subsidiaries, its mortgage 
company, originated a substantial volume of real estate loans in 
bank's service area in 1972. However, Bank engages in real estate 
Ending activities only to a limited extent and presently has a policy 
not making real estate loans. In view of the existing relation-
ship between Applicant and Bank, the limited nature of Bank's real 
estate lending, the presence of numerous other sources of real estate 
Ending, and other facts of record, it does not appear that consummation 
the proposal would eliminate any significant existing or future 
ComPetition between Bank and Applicant's mortgage company. 
It appears that consummation of the proposed acquisition 
w°uld not eliminate any meaningful existing competition. The existing 
•Relationship between Bank and Applicant appears likely to continue 
j 
n the near future, and absent the breaking of this relationship, 
the development of future competition between Bank and any of Applicant's 
Subsidiaries 
is considered unlikely. Moreover, the relatively small 
slze of bank and the presence of numerous competing banks in the Denver 
^rket make it unlikely that approval of the proposal would foreclose 
si8nifiCant future competition between Applicant or its subsidiaries 
a n d Bank. 
The financial and managerial resources and the future prospects 
o f Applicant and its banking subsidiaries appear satisfactory. Bank's 
Managerial resources are satisfactory and its future prospects are 

39^1 
-4-
considered to be good. Bank's recent rapid growth has accentuated 
xts need for additional equity capital. Applicant has made a commit-
ment to provide at least $350,000 of additional equity capital, and, 
in view of this commitment, the financial condition of Bank is considered 
satisfactory. Thus, considerations relating to the financial and 
Managerial resources of Bank lend some support toward approval of 
the application. There is no evidence in the record to indicate that 
the banking needs of the Denver market are not being adequately served, 
however, upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant will assist 
ttank in such areas as auditing and personnel training and recruitment, 
and the addition of capital will assist Bank in its lending activities. 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t° be served are consistent with approval of the application. It 
is the Board's judgment that the proposed acquisition would be in 
the public interest and that the application whould be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
ot this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 

-3-
fioard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to 
legated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective October 9, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
[SEAL] 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
anr/T^* Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane 
Holland. 

39^3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEil 
Item No. 6 
10/9/73 
FIRST TEXAS BANCORP, INC. 
Order Approving Retention of First Texas Development Corporation 
First Texas Bancorp, Inc., Georgetown, Texas, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval, under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
o f the Board's Regulation Y, to retain all of the voting shares of First 
T e x a s development Corporation, Georgetown, Texas ("Texas Development"), 
a company that engages in the activity of servicing loans. The servicing 
loans and other extensions of credit for any person has been determined 
hy the Board to be closely related to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(3)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
been duly published (38 Federal Register 21960). The time for filing 
comments and views has expired, and none has been timely received. 
Applicant controls four banks with aggregate deposits of $42 
m l U i o n , and is the eighteenth largest multi-bank holding company in 
tbe State with 0.1 per cent of the total commercial bank deposits in 
^exas.l/ 
All of the outstanding shares in Texas Development are held 
trustees for the benefit of the shareholders of Citizens State Bank, 
e°rgetown, Texas, which banking subsidiary was acquired by Applicant 
i n October 1971. It is noted that Texas Development also holds 
A/ All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
J^Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through August 31, 

I 
3924 
-2-
properties for future bank expansion and furnishes services to the 
banking subsidiaries of Applicant; such activities appear to be 
aPpropriate to a bank holding company under sections 4(c)(1)(A) and (C) 
o f the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(c)(1)(A) and (C)). By means of this 
aPplication, Applicant is seeking approval to retain shares in Texas 
development subsequent to the two-year retention period provided in 
Action 4(a)(2) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1843(a)(2)), and thereby 
c°ntinue Texas Development's activities. 
It does not appear that the continued retention by Applicant 
of Texas Development would have an adverse effect on either existing 
° r Potential competition. Texas Development will not be a competitor 
f°r the making of new loans and its market share2/ is only 0.1 per 
cent of the total loans held by commercial banks in the relevant 
market, Williamson County. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that the 
c°ntinued retention of Texas Development would lead to an undue 
» 
c°ncentration of resources, conflicts of interest, or unsound banking 
Practices. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
interest factors the Board is required to consider under section 
^ c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby approved. 
This determination is subject to the conditions set forth in section 
225-4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to require such 
-2/ As of March 31, 1973, Texas Development had an outstanding loan 
p°rtfolio of about $26,000. 

Edification or termination of the activities of a holding company 
°r any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
evasion thereof. 
By order of the Board of Governors,3/ effective October 9, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
I^Voting f.or this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Hitchell, 
Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors 
°aane and Holland. 

3926 
Item NOo 7 
10/9/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ASSOCIATED BANK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Associated Bank Corporation, Davenport, Iowa, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
fo* the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
tr> 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Iowa County Savings 
Bank, Marengo, Iowa ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
5 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
and tbe Board has considered the application and all comments received 
iri light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the 103rd largest commercial banking organization in 
controls one bank, Iowa Trust & Savings Bank with deposits of about 
$18 miliion> representing approximately 0.2 per cent of total bank deposits 
the State.!/ Consummation of the proposal would increase Applicant's 
Proportionate sh,?re of the deposits in commercial banks in the State by 
less than 0.2 percentage points, and Applicant would then rank as the 
38th largest banking organization in Iowa. 
Bank ($12.8 million in deposits) is the only bank in Marengo 
(l9*> population, 2,235) and the largest of 11 banks in the Marengo bank-
in 
8 market, the relevant banking market, with nearly 18 per cent of market 
dePosits, Bank does not dominate its market area, as each of two other 
Tr***^ 
All 
banking data are as of December 31, 1972, and reflect bank holding 
j^Pany formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through August 31, 

3327 
-2-
banking organizations in the market hold deposits of only $500,000 less 
th*n Bank, and six other banks have individual market shares of 5-10 per 
cent. There is no significant existing competition between Applicant's 
ba^king subsidiary and Bank, nor is there a reasonable probability of 
Co*petition developing in the future in view of, among other things, 
t h e 240 mile distance between Applicant's banking subsidiary and Bank, 
t h e numerous intervening banking offices, and Iowa's restrictive branch-
e s laws. The Board concludes, therefore, that competitive considerations 
a r e consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and prospects 
o f Applicant and its subsidiary bank are regarded as satisfactory and 
with approval. The financial resources of Bank appear satis-
factory; its prospects seem favorable; and its management is regarded 
B J s generally satisfactory. Considerations relating to the convenience 
A . . » 
needs of the communities to be served are consistent with approval 
view of Applicant's anticipated improvement in the services to be 
^eted by Bank. Accordingly, it is the Board's judgment that consummation 
^ the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that the 
Plication 
should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
fchis Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 

3928 
-3-
°r by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
Purther, the transaction shall not be consummated until there has been 
Coi»pliance with § 3(e) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(e)) which requires 
that p 
every bank that is a holding company and every bank that is a sub-
ary of such a company shall become and remain an insured bank as such 
teriI> is defined in § 3(h) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. 
1 8 1 3 00), 
By order of the Board of Governors,-^ effective Octpber 9, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester E. Feldberg 
fSEAL] 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
^rimmting f° r t h i s a c t i o n : 
Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
baan^* S h e e h a n> a n d Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors 
a a n e and Holland. 

39^9 
Item No. 8 
10/9/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ASSOCIATED BANK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Leasing, Inc. 
Associated Bank Corporation, Davenport, Iowa, a bank holding 
°mPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f 
r ^e Board's approval under section 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) 
0f the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the voting shares of Leasing, 
Inc 
Des Moines, Iowa ("Company"), a company that engages in the activity 
of ie 
easing personal property and equipment whereby the lessor recovers 
U S f u l 1 acquisition cost during the initial term of the lease from 
(1) r< 
value 
rentals, (2) estimated tax benefits, and (3) estimated salvage 
Such activity has been determined by the Board to be closely 
telated to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(6)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
nterested persons to submit comments and views on the public interest 
actors, has been duly published (38 Federal Register 21821). The 
o r filing comments and views has expired, and none has been 
< l m e l v received. 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of about $18 
^^•lion v 
• representing approximatedly 0.2 per cent of the total com-
toetciai 
bank deposits in the State.l/ Applicant has received 
°ard 
pproval to acquire a second banking subsidiary.2/ 
i T ^ J ^ a t a are as of "December 31, 1972. 
° f 
County S
^
^
E
S
,
?
^ 
A P P U C a n t ' S 

3930 
-2-
Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of loua County Bank Corporation,3/ 
is agaged through its Des Moines and Littleton, Colorado, offices in 
the 
e basing to commercial enterprises of such personal property and 
^ipment as office machines, medical equipment, light manufacturing 
^ipment, farm equipment, and livestock trailers. All of Company's 
are consistent with the requirement of a full-payout lease, as 
recovers in full its acquisition cost of leased equipment 
thr 
Cornpany 
°ugh rentals alone, during the initial term of the leases. The 
r§est proportion of Company's leases originate in the States of 
lovja On per cent), Colorado, (14 per cent), and Nebraska and 
Te 
nnessee (7 p e r c e nt each). Lease receivables in the latter part of 
bruary, 1973, amounted to $5.6 million, of which the Des Moines 
°ffiCe 
accounted for $3.9 million with the remaining $1.7 million 
in8 originated by the Littleton office. Only 0.6 per cent of 
Pany s lease receivables in Iowa originate in an area within a 
o f 20 miles of Applicant's existing banking subsidiary, which 
is 
wiles northwest of Company's Des Moines office. Company competes 
*'ith n u m p 
serous national and regional lessors and is not considered 
Nomina 
• 
L m any area of the country. 
Neither Applicant nor its existing or proposed banking 
diaries engage in leasing activities. There is no indication in 
the r e 
c°rd, absent this proposal, that Applicant would be likely to 
en8ape H 
oe novo in leasing operations in the relevant areas. The facts 
of rGc 
v*-°rd ind icate that no substantial amount of existing or potential 
& Iowa County Bank Corporation, Iowa City, Iowa, is a registered bank 
folding company by virtue of its 66.3 per cent ownership of Iowa County 
avJ-ngs Bank, Marengo, Iowa. 

3931 
-3-
c°mpetition would be eliminated by consummation of this proposal, and 
the 
e Board finds that the competitive considerations are consistent with 
aPPtoval of this application. 
It is anticipated that Applicant's acquisition of Company 
7°uld benefit the public by increasing the line of services available 
to Customers of Applicant's existing and approved (but not yet consummated) 
anking subsidiaries9and by assisting Company in obtaining funds at lower 
C Q S F-
Applicant has stated that it will increase Company's capital base 
by <So million, which 
will enable Company to expand its leasing 
Nations. 
There is no evidence in the record indicating that 
°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would result in undue 
0riCentration of resources, unfair competition, conflicts of interest, 
Usound banking practices, or other adverse effects. 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected 
in the record, the Board has determined that the balance of the 
Puklic interest factors the Board is required to consider under 
ection 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the application is hereby 
aPptoved. This determination is subject to the conditions set forth 
u section 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority 
to 
cequire such modification or termination of the activities of a 
hold,-lng company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary 
0 assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and 
the 
Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent 
eVasion thereof. 

3932 
-4-
The transaction shall be consummated not later than three 
m°nths after the effective date of this Order, unless such period 
is extended for good cause by the Board or, by the Federal Reserve 
B a n k of Chicago, pursuant to authority delegated herewith. 
A/ 
By order of the Board of Governors,"' effective October 9, 1973, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
% 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, 
immer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors 
and Holland. 

3933 
Item No. 9 
10/9/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
MICHIGAN NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisitions of Banks 
Michigan National Corporation, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, a 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
( ^ 2 
T* 
U*S,C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire the successors by merger to the following 
f°Ur kanks; (1) First National Bank of East Lansing, East Lansing ("East 
Lansing Bank"); (2) Central Bank, National Association, Grand Rapids 
( Central"); (3) Valley National Bank of Saginaw, Saginaw ("Valley"); 
a n d (4) First National Bank of Wyoming, Wyoming ("Wyoming Bank"), 
all 
o f which are located in Michigan. The banks into which the four 
amed Banks are to be merged have no significance except as a means 
0 facilitate the acquisition of the voting shares of Banks. Accordingly, 
the 
Proposed acquisitions of shares of the successor organizations are 
eated herein as the proposed acquisitions of the shares of the four 
Batiks. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
raons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
0f the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
n e Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
Xl8ht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 

3934 
-2-
Applicant controls five banks with aggregate deposits of $2.38 
billion, representing about 9.5 per cent of deposits of commercial banks 
Michigan.1/ Acquisition of East Lansing Bank (deposits of $16.5 million), 
Central (deposits of $42.9 million), Valley (deposits of $43.2 million), 
^ 
Wyoming Bank (deposits of $15.9 million) would change Applicant's 
ra*k from the third largest banking organization in Michigan to the second 
la*gest but would add only about 0.5 per cent of total deposits in Michigan 
t o its control. Moreover, two other banking organizations would be approxi-
mately the same size as Applicant, and Applicant would be only a little 
m o re than half the size of the leading organization in Michigan. For 
these reasons, approval of the acquisitions would not significantly 
a3-ter the existing concentration of banking resources in the State. 
Both the Department of Justice ("Justice") and the Commissioner 
o f the Michigan Financial Institutions Bureau ("Commissioner") commented 
°n these applications. Justice, asserting that the banking markets in 
^estion were already concentrated and that approval of the applications 
w°uld eliminate substantial existing competition, recommended denial of 
a X l four applications. The Commissioner also stated that the concentration 
l n the four banking markets was high and further indicated that approval 
o f the applications would give Applicant substantially increased branching 
opportunities which would help to increase its dominance over other organi-
2ations in the markets. The Commissioner recommended against approval 
^ ^ T b ^ k i ^ d a t a are as of December 31, 1972, unless otherwise noted, 
aJJd represent bank holding company acquisitions and formations approved by 
h e Board through August 31, 1973. 

3335 
-3-
of the four a p p l i c a t i o n s B o t h Justice and Commissioner recognized that 
a Profit sharing trust for the employees of Applicant's lead bank held 
Varying interests in the four banks. However, the Commissioner and Justice 
ffilt that Applicant did not have control of the four banks in question. 
Applicant replied by stating that approval of the four applications 
w°uld not affect its relative ranking in any of the three markets in ques-
tion. Moreover, Applicant stated that the concentration was no greater 
i n these markets than in other Michigan Standard Metropolitan Statistical 
Areas. Applicant argued that approval of the applications would enable 
it: to provide greater convenience of services in the relevant banking markets. 
Additionally, Applicant stressed that it has close relationships with the 
f°ur banks in question, that it has either helped form or expand the four 
banks, and that it has provided management services throughout their 
existences. 
The Board has concluded that approval of these four applications 
w°uld not have a substantially adverse effect on the concentration of 
bai*king resources in Michigan. The Board must also consider whether 
of the relevant local markets indicates there are substantial 
antCompetitive effects that would result from approval of any or all of 
these applications. In the Saginaw banking market, Valley presently 
r*nks as the fourth largest banking organization with approximately 
7 Per cent of market d e p o s i t s . T h e lead bank of Applicant has one 
^^be~Commissioner is not the supervisory official whose denial recom-
A
 ndation requires a hearing pursuant to § 3(b) of the Bank Holding Company 
since all the four banks sought to be acquired are national banks. More-
er» the recommendation was not received within the thirty-day time period 
2 / J-equired by § 3(b). 
J 
A 1 1 banking data for the local markets Involved in this case are as of 
3o, 1 9 7 2 # 
T h e Saginaw banking market is approximated by the north-
stern two-thirds of Saginaw County. 

3936 
-4-
office in the market with about 28.5 per cent of market deposits. However, 
present law Applicant's lead bank may not open any new branches in 
the 
e Saginaw area, a constraint which has the effect of inhibiting its 
^owth i n that area. For example, in the 4-year period from June, 1968, 
T 
une, 1972, deposits of this one branch grew only about 4.5 per cent 
vhiie t-u 
t-ne Saginaw banking market deposits grew approximately 14 per cent. 
As a r consequence of this relatively limited growth, the market share of 
tHis 
s branch fell almost 2.5 per cent during this 4-year period. It seems 
ikely th a t t h e m a rk e t Share of this branch will continue to fall since 
lts ompetitors can branch into locations preferred by more depositors 
•»•*- must offer its services from a single location. Moreover, the 
fioard r 
recognizes that the largest banking organization in this market 
n t r o l s approximately 50 per cent of market deposits and increased its 
Market QK 
snare over the previously referred to 4-year period. Permitting 
^Pplic 
ai*t to acquire Valley would give it the ability to branch through-
°ut the 
area and provide greater service conveniences and also increased 
Petition for the dominant organization in the market. The Bo**_d also 
°gniZes that Applicant, through the employee trust fund of its lead 
bank h 
» n a s a substantial interest in Valley at the present time with the 
tru 
s t owning 24.52 per cent of Valley's voting shares. Applicant also 
rePresentatives on Valley's board of directors and has previously 
Provij J 
ed Valley with needed managerial assistance. In view of these 
facts t-u „ 
> «-ne Board concludes that the competitive considerations are, on 
the whoi 
procompetitive and, therefore, consistent with approval of 
the aPPUcation. 

3937 
-5-
Both Central and Wyoming Bank are located in the Grand Rapids 
inking market with the former controlling approximately 3 per cent 
and the latter about 1 per cent of market deposits.3/ Here, as in 
tlle Saginaw banking market, the lead bank of Applicant operates one 
br 
ai*ch. This office controls about 17.5 per cent of market deposits. 
tr 
Wever, similar to the situation in Saginaw, this is the only branch that 
is 
s Permitted to Applicant's bank in this market while the two largest banks 
h a V e unlimited branching rights in the city and, in fact, have 26 and 16 
offices. The Grand Rapids banking market is dominated by these two large 
°r8anizations which control over 70 per cent of deposits between them, 
^th the largest organization accounting for approximately 50 per cent of 
this total. Because of the limitations on its ability to branch, Applicant's 
bank has grown at a much slower rate than either of these two organir..-. 
2ations. The Board believes that the public would be better served if the 
applicant had branching capabilities in this market competitive with those 
of tt 
n e two dominant organizations. Applicant has shown itself to be an 
SSresslve competitor and, given an equal competitive footing, it may be 
co make some inroads into the concentrated market structure. Moreover, 
pplicant, again through the employee trust fund of its lead bank, has sub-
stantiai interests in both Wyoming Bank and Central, having 22.3 per cent 
°f the voting shares of the former and 21.9 per cent of the voting shares 
f the latter. The trust also owns 46.1 per cent of the preferred stock 
V m i n g Bank. Applicant's lead bank has provided management assistance 
to X °th of these banks, particularly to Wyoming Bank at a time when it needed 
Grand Rapids banking market is approximated by the southern three-
tths of Kent County and the eastern half of Ottawa County. 

3938 
-6-
0utside help. For these reasons, the Board concludes that competitive 
considerations offer no impediment to approval of the two applications. 
East Lansing Eank and Applicant's lead bank both have their 
^ad office in the same banking market.4/ East Lansing Bank is a compara-
b l y small factor in this market, having only about 2 per cent of market 
dePosits. Since its establishment in 1955 with the help of Applicant's 
6 a d hank, it has not shown itself to be a particularly aggressive organi-
atlon» or*ly recently opening two branches. Though Applicant has the largest 
arket share in the relevant banking market with approximately 41 per cent 
deposits, it presently cannot branch into the East Lansing Bank's sector 
lls market due to home office protection laws. In the East Lansing 
sector of the market, East Lansing Bank is much smaller than the 
her bank with headquarters there. Approval*of this application may enable 
r e vigorous competition to result in this part of the market. Moreover, 
App^j 
f 
cant s lead bank assisted in the establishment of East Lansing 3ank, 
rrently has representatives on the board of directors, and the employee 
U s t fund owns 12.85 per cent of the voting shares of East Lansing Bank. 
These f 
racts indicate that Applicant has a great deal of influence over 
East I,, 
^ansing Bank and the latter cannot be considered to be an entirely 
ePendent entity. Given the small size of East Lansing Bank and 
^PPli 
» 
Cant s present influence over it, the Board does not consider that 
stantially adverse effects on competition would result from approval of 
this 
application. Accordingly, the Board concludes that competitive 
c°nsid 
erations are consistent with approval. 
j T r f — — — 
1QcI ® relevant banking market is approximated by the Lansing SMSA, which 
e s Clinton, Eaton, and Ingham Counties. 

3339 
-7-
It appears appropriate at this point to discuss the relevance 
of the holdings of the employee trust fund in each of these four banks. The 
mPloyee trust's investments in the stock of the banks proposed to be acquired 
here x s a circumstance over which one of the dissenters to the Board's 
aPProval action has expressed concern. The Board's approval of the Applicant's 
accluisition of banks in which the employees trust fund of Applicant's lead 
bank ha 
"as previously invested is premised upon the following considerations, 
m°ng °thers. The trust fund's interest in each of the banks was acquired 
Prior . 
•-o the time when this Board was given statutory oversight responsi-
l i t y w i th respect to the Applicant. The present record contains no 
gBestion that the trust's investments have not been, in all respects, 
udent, financially satisfactory, and in the best interest of the bene-
ciaries of the trust. Nor is there evidence of any abuse by the trustees 
their fiduciary responsibilities under the trust, nor of control of 
e i r investment decisions by Applicant or its lead bank. Moreover, the 
' Q 
approval actions here should not be read as indicating automatic 
proval of such investments; rather, approval in these cases is based 
8°mewhat- on the positive competitive and convenience benefits that would 
f 
rrom consummation of these transactions. 
The financial condition and managerial resources and prospects 
°f Apun cant, its subsidiaries, and the four banks are generally satisfactory 

3310 
-8-
and consistent with approval of the applications. Considerations relating 
0 the convenience and needs of the communities to be served lend some 
eight for approval of the applications since consummation of the trans-
ctions will enable Applicant to provide services at additional locations 
withir> t-u 
the communities. It is the Board's judgment that the proposed 
factions are in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this 
Qtd 
r 0 r (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order 
unle8s 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by the 
Federal u 
Keserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,5/ effective October 18, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL) 
^nai P r? V a l o f acquisition of First National Bank of East Lansing, East 
Natio
ngj Central Bank, National Association, Grand Rapids; and Valley 
aad G 
B a n k o f S a6 l n a w> Saginaw. Voting for this action: Chairman Burns 
Governo 
° r s M i t c h e l l> 
Daane, and Sheehan. Voting against this action: 
°rs Brimmer and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 
{^PProval 
otin f 
acquisition of First National Bank of Wyoming, Wyoming. 
Btim8 
o r this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Daane, 
r> Sheehan, and Holland. Absent and not voting: Governor Bucher. 

3911 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR BRIMMER 
I. must dissent from the majority's approval of the applications 
to Squire the (1) East Lansing Bank, (2) Central, and (3) Valley. The 
a3ority concedes that these three banks are all located in markets where 
App^j 
t 
cant s lead bank has a substantial position. In other words, this 
is not-
a case of potential competition; its adverse impact is primarily 
existing competition. 
The Board's approval of the East Lansing Bank's acquisition will 
m^an t-u 
nat Applicant will have almost 43 per cent of the market deposits in the 
nsing banking market. This type of dominance may perhaps be expected when 
^king markets are small, a circumstance not here involved. As of June 30, 
19?2 m 
» cae Lansing market had $784.5 million of' deposits. The majority 
should 
4 
°e Interested in seeing these deposits spread out among several organi-
l o n s rather than allowing one large organization to expand an already 
at*t position. The majority alludes to the fact that the employee 
s t fund has an interest in the voting shares of East Lansing Bank. How-
» «-nis interest is only 12.85 per cent of such voting shares. Moreover, 
snares are held in a fiduciary capacity; that is, they must be used 
^utther the interests of the beneficiaries of the trust, not those of 
APpiiCan. 
it is unfortunate that the majority appears to sanitize what it 
*ust ot, 
cnerwise surely concede would be an anticompetitive application byrefer-
to this control relationship. The Board in previous cases (particularly 
tlle applicati6ns of First City Bancorporation of Texas, Inc., 1973 Federal 

394° 
-2-
p 
e r v e Bulletin 105) has chosen to disregard voting interests of Applicants 
h e l d i n competing banks where there is a probability that disaffiliation 
®aY occur over a reasonable period of time and where the competitive con-
fluences of consummation of the transaction would be substantially adverse. 
Moreover, i n the First City cases, Applicant held absolute interests in the 
bailks rather than holding interest in a trust capacity. The majority is 
n°w Placing its stamp of approval on what must be considered a use of trust 
a S 8 e t s w i t h potential conflict of interests problems. I do not believe that 
atl employee trust fund should be used to forward the competitive interests 
of 
a n organization whose employees are beneficiaries of the investing trust. 
cannot help but feel this is what has happened in this case where the assets 
t^e trust fund were used to acquire additional competitive outlets in 
market where Applicant's lead bank was represented. 
The majority refers to the fact that the East Lansing bank has 
not bp 
een aggressive. However, figures indicate that from June, 1968, to 
Une» 1972, East Lansing's deposits grew at a rate 50 per cent higher than 
the 
average for the market. Additionally, I cannot understand the majority's 
ference to the increased competition that may result from approval of this 
°ation in the East Lansing sector of the market. Offices of Applicant's 
a(i bank and the East Lansing Bank are located within three miles of one 
anot 
Part 
an°th©>-
East Lansing is not an isolated section but is clearly a central 
bank 
o f the larger Lansing banking market. Branches of Applicant's lead 
completely surround it. It is to disregard reality to separate East 
n8 from its larger setting. The Lansing market is also an increasingly 

3913 
-3-
c°ncentrated one; from June, 1968, to June, 1972, the market share of the 
h r e e lar8est banks went from 73 to about 82 per cent of market deposits. 
The ft 
B°ard should be concerned about even small increases in concentration 
ln s ^ h a market. 
1 do not find the approval of the applications of the Central and 
ValiEY ba i s t o be any more salutary. Applicant's lead bank has a branch 
G r a n d RaPids with total deposits of about $225 million, making it the 
ir<l largest competitor in the market. In approving the application of 
both the r* 
central and Wyoming Bank in the Grand Rapids banking market, the 
Board i 
8 giving Applicant three different organizational outlets in that 
Market and -f * 
is foregoing the opportunity to approve the acquisition of the 
ank contingent upon divestment of Applicant's influence on Central. 
Majority stresses the fact that in the Grand Rapids market the two 
^argeS£ 
organizations control over 70 per cent of market deposits. Yet, 
^jority fails to point out that after approval of these two applications 
the three ^ 
cop organizations in the Grand Rapids market (which, of course, 
ltlcludes An 1-1 
applicant) will control over 90 per cent of market deposits. 
M°re0Ver 
» cnis is In the context of an increasing t r e n d toward concentration 
Grand Rapids banking market. The three largest organizations in 
^aPids controlled approximately 78 per cent of market deposits in 
ir> the 
G*and 
Jutle> 1968 
r. 
Four years later, their share had grown to 89 per cent of 
^ k e t d e n , 
^ 
posits. This adverse trend will be accelerated by approval of 
t w° a p p l i c a t i o n s 
h e r G i 

-4-
3941 
The situation in the Saginaw market is not much better. Approval 
o f the application of Valley will give Michigan National approximately 
35 S 
per cent of market deposits. This means the two largest organizations 
i n Saginaw will control almost 85 per cent of market deposits. Again, 
Saginaw is not a small banking market where one may expect such large 
m a r k e t shares; rather, it has $437.6 million of deposits. 
I must conclude, as I did with regard to the East Lansing bank 
application, that approval of the acquisition of Central and Valley gives 
tlle B°ardfs blessing to the use of assets held in a fiduciary capacity to 
cement an anticompetitive concentration of banking resources. I believe 
that such a use should not be countenanced. I am not saying that an employee 
t r U s t fund of a bank cannot invest in bank stock. The trustees of such a 
are probably more knowledgable concerning investments in this type of 
st°ek than any other. However, I feel that investments should not be made 
ltl tlle stock of banks that compete with the bank whose employees are 
of the trust. Aside from fostering anticompetitive market 
situations, this raises the spectre of conflict of interest. The trustees 
Ciay not adhere to their fiduciary responsibilities in ambiguous situations 
and» instead, may give impermissible consideration to the interests of their 
emPloyer. 
Again, it must be pointed out that all the trustees of this 
t t U S t are officers of Applicant's lead bank. The Board, in these times 
of 
sensitivity of conflict of interest questions, should be doubly careful 
not frv appear to approve the potential for such practices. 

394f 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNOR HOLLAND 
X dissent from the majority's approval of the applications to 
acquire the (1) East Lansing Bank, (2) Central, and (3) Valley. 
These banks are all located in sizable but highly concentrated 
market*n -t 
in which Applicant's lead bank already has a substantial position. 
0rmatlon in the record persuades me that each of these three banks 
Wouxd K 
an attractive acquisition conferring some market advantages 
P°n a n y banking organization able to affiliate effectively with it. 
I cannot escape the judgment that, over the long run, the banking 
Markets f 
o t Grand Rapids, Lansing, and Saginaw would be more competitive 
and thp 
u 
Public better served if the three banks in these respective areas 
over RJU J 
ich Applicant proposes to establish firm control were, in the 
ernative, operated as independent banks or were sold to other vigorous 
gan banking organizations not now represented in these markets. 
I belimm 
t_ 
such a course of events should not be regarded as impractical 
^Probable despite the ownership of some shares of stock in each 
bank h 
y the employees trust fund of Applicant's lead bank. Such ownership 
c°nveya 
i 
j no legal right for the Applicant to control these banks and the 
tru8teea „ 
can justifiably hold such shares only so long as it serves the 
L_ 
I N * . -
of the trust beneficiaries to do so. 
est interests 
I should add that I would not vote to bar Applicant from expanding 
its 
°8taphic scope in the Grand Rapids or Saginaw markets either by 

3946 
-2-
acquisition or de no™ entry. This is impiicit in »y vote to 
Pprove Applicant's acquisition of Wyoming Bank which is of a foothold type. 
°wever, like Governor Brimmer, I feel that Applicant's expansion in 
116 Lansing market should be limited to a de novo type because of the 
°f its existing dominance in that market. 

3947 
Item NOo 10 
10/9/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
ALABAMA BANCORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Alabama Bancorporation, Birmingham, Alabama, a bank holding 
C0*pany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' qualifying 
shares) 0f the successor by merger to Baldwin National Bank of Robertsdale, 
R°hertsdale, Alabama ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank is to be merged 
has no significance except as a means to facilitate the acquisition of 
the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of 
shares 0f the successor organization is treated herein as the proposed 
of the shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Arsons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3<b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d none has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
i n iight of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the largest bank holding company in Alabama and 
Cor*trols eight banks with total deposits of $1.1 billion, representing 
ip 
per cent of the total deposits of commercial banks in the State. 

3948 
-2-
(All banking data are as of December 31, 1972, except where otherwise 
n°ted, and represent bank holding company acquisitions approved by the 
B°ard through August 31, 1973.) Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $9.2 
milUon as o f June 30j 1973) w i l l no(. s i g n if i c a n t : l y increase the concen-
tration of banking resources in Alabama. 
Bank is located in Baldwin County, which together with Mobile 
C° U n t y c°raprises the Mobile Standard Metropolitan Statistical Area 
(SMSA)- 
Bai*k ranks ao the eleventh largest of the 14 banks located in 
hG 
SMSA (the relevant market) and holds approximately 1.1 per 
e n t of market deposits. Applicant presently has a banking subsidiary, 
Atnerican National Bank and Trust Company of Mobile ("Mobile Bank"), 
°cated in Mobile County, approximately 17 miles from Bank's closest 
br 
a n c h* Mobile Bank is the third largest bank in the market and con- ^ 
troi8 ii 
1 Per cent of market deposits. Although this proposed acquisition 
eliminate some existing competition between Mobile Bank and Bank, 
h Q t atnount of competition eliminated will be insignificant. 
Moreover, due to Alabama's prohibition against cross-county 
br Aching and the presence of several very competitive banking alterna-
t 1 V g g 
. 
» it does not appear likely that substantial competition will 
Velop between the two banks in the future. For similar reasons, there 
la , 
ig 
significant possibility of substantial competition developing 
"Ween any other of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank. Neither 
doee . 
appear likely that Applicant would enter the county de novo. 

3919 
Although Applicant controls 11 per cent of market deposits, 
t h e t w o dominant banking organizations each control about 35 per cent of 
Such deposits. This proposed acquisition will increase Applicant's market 
sl*are by only 1.1 per cent while allowing Applicant a means of entering 
Baldwin County, a sector of the market in which it is not represented 
(and 0 ne into which its subsidiary, Mobile Bank, may not branch). Applicant 
t h e n ^ould be able to provide more effective competition for the larger 
b a n k s ^ the Mobile market. For these reasons, the Board concludes that 
c°mpetitive considerations are not inconsistent with approval. 
The managerial and financial resources and future prospects of 
^PPlicant, its subsidiary b a n k s , and Bank are generally satisfactory and 
Consistent with approval of this application. Applicant has fulfilled its 
c°itimitment to inject capital into Mobile Bank and stands ready to increase 
thp 
CaPital of Bank if it is needed. Although there is no evidence that 
e banking needs of the community are not being served adequately by-
existing banks, Applicant would assist Bank to provide improvements in 
CUstomer service through additional drive-in windows, night deposit 
^ U t i e s 
for nonbusiness customers, expansion of Bank's main office and 
additional safe deposit facilities. Applicant also will assist Bank to 
HPand its lending services to include specialized financing such as 
6 a l e r loans and inventory loans. Considerations relating to the con-
e n ce and needs of the community to be served lend some weight for 
aPpfOval of this application. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
f t h ls proposed transaction would be in the public interest and should be 
aPProved. 

3950 
-4-
0n the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
tH 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
t h i s °rder or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this 
QY. J 
unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board or by 
t h e Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors 
effective October 10, 1973. 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
Noting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Mitchell, Brimmer, 
eehan, and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governors Daane and Holland. 

\ 
3951 
B O A R D O f 
G O V E R N O R S 
^ O V C ' O ^ : . 
D F 
THL: 
Item NO. 11 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
1 0 / 9 / 7 3 
WASHINGTON, 
P. 
C. 
20551 
* 
f'Hi . 
i 
A D D R T S S 
P F F I U I A L 
C O R N C S P U N D C N C C 
T O 
T H C 
U [ J A U D 
October 9, 1973 
Peter B. Work, Esq. 
Reavis, Pogue, Neal & Rose 
1100 Connecticut Avenue, N. W. 
Washington, D. C. 20036 
Re: Continental Bancor, Inc. 
t 
near Mr. Work: 
I am enclosing for the information of your client, 
Continental Bancor, Inc., a copy of a letter of this date to 
the attorney of the minority shareholders of Continental Bank'. 
The letter reflects the Board's decision,in view of Western 
jjaiK!sUar<?.s, Inc. v. Board of Governors, to take no action with 
respect to requiring your client to make an offer to those 
minority shareholders. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
Enclosure 

m , 
\ - , 
\ 
.-,T a 
m 
• • • / U. • 
F E E 
B O A R D H P 
G D V E R N D R S 
• r* THE 
D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2CL.51 
3( k r o 
C 
ADD ((EBB nrtltMAl. COHMEBPONDENCC 
TO THE BOARD 
October 9/ 1973 
T. Drew Canthorn, Esq. 
Smith, Smith, Hale & Guenther 
500 National Bank of Commerce Building 
san Antonio, Texas 78205 
Mr. Cauthorn: 
I 
I am writing with respect to the request of your clients, 
minority shareholders of Continental Bank, Phoenix, Arizona, that 
the Board require Continental Bancor, Inc., to make a share-for-share 
exchange with the minority holders. As you have been previously 
informed by staff, the United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth 
Circuit in Western Bancshares, Inc. v. Board of Governors has held 
that the Board has no statutory authority to deny a bank holding 
company application solely because an equal offer was not made to 
aii shareholders of the hank. A petition for a writ of certiorari 
from the decision has not been filed and the Board has determined to 
acquiesce in the Court's holding. Therefore, the Board may not 
require an applicant to make such an offer. In view of this, the 
koard has denied your request on behalf of your clients. 
Very truly yours, 
(signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester B. Feldberg 
Secretary of the Board 
