MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 15, 1973 

| 
j 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Monday, January 15, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 9:30 a.m. 
< 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Grimwood, Assistant Director, Office of 
Executive Director 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 1/ 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Bryant, Director, Division of International 
Finance 1/ 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Ring, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks and Mrs. Scott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
The staff presented a review of domestic and international develop-
ments of the kind customarily given in advance of meetings of the Federal 
i 
: 
°Pen Market Committee. 
Copies of the statistical materials prepared for 
1/ Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

1 3 * ; 
1/15/73 
-2-
the review have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of 
the individual briefings. 
Mr. Rippey reviewed pertinent legislative developments. 
Staff members who had attended the meeting specifically for the 
economic review then withdrew. 
Consent calendar. Pursuant to recommendations of the Office of 
the Program Director for Banking Structure in memoranda of January 9, 1973, 
the Board unanimously approved amendments to the Board's Rules Regarding 
Delegation of Authority that (1) delegated to the Federal Reserve Banks 
authority to approve certain applications for membership in the Federal 
Reserve System; and (2) permitted Reserve Banks to act on a request of a 
bank holding company to exercise rights to acquire additional shares, on 
a Pro rata basis, of a nonsubsidiary bank if the holding company's percentage 
ownership did not increase. Copies of the amendments are attached as 
items 1 and 2. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve Banks 
regarding the amendments is attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chase Manhattan 
Overseas Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of 
B. Comercio Turismo e Servicos, S.A., Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. A copy 
the letter sent to the applicant is attached as Item No. 4. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Chemical New York 
Corporation, New York, New York, to acquire shares of the State Bank of 
Hilton. Hilton, New York, and authorized issuance of an order reflecting 
this decision. A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 5. 

1/15/73 
-3-
The Board unanimously approved the application of Great American 
Corporation, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, to acquire indirectly certain assets 
of Bell Finance Service, New Orleans, Louisiana, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
j_tem No. 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of First National 
Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, to acquire shares of the 
successor by merger to First National Bank of Holland, Holland, Michigan, 
a n d authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision. A copy of 
the order is attached as Item No. 7. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting approval, 
°n January 2, 1973, of the applications of Southeast Banking Corporation, 
Miami, Florida, to acquire shares of Bank of Florida at Fort Lauderdale 
and Bankers Bank of Florida, both located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
A copy of the order is attached as Item No. 8. 
Pursuant to a recommendation of the Division of Federal Reserve 
Bank Operations in memoranda of January 3 and 12, 19 73, the Board approved 
implementation of uniform one-day credit for all checks deposited by 
Government agencies in Federal Reserve Banks. Copies of the letters sent 
to the Reserve Banks and to the Treasury Department are attached as 
•Ltemg 9 and 10. 
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 

138 
1/15/73 
-4-
Reserve Bank budgets. Today's agenda called for consideration 
°f the Federal Reserve Bank budgets for the first half of 1973. However, 
after brief discussion it was agreed to revert to the subject on January 18, 
1973, and to authorize the Reserve Banks to continue spending at current 
rates until further notice. A copy of the telegram sent to the Reserve 
&anks is attached as Item No. 11. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 1 
1/15/73 
T.I'.CI S 12--L>AIUCS AMD 2AKKIKG 
CHAPTER XX- -FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A - - BOARD OF GOVE UK OF; 5 OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
PART 265-*-RUL.ES REGARDING DSI1?.GAXIOM OF AUTHORITY 
In order to delegate to the Fedora X Reserve Banks authority 
"Pprove applications for Membership in the System 5 265.2(J?) is 
*GlUietl b y a d c U n - subparagraph (26) to read as follows: 
265 ? P 
;r. 
opecifLc function.1; delegated to Board employees and Fedora; 
Reserve Banks« 
* 
" 
V: 
(1) Each Federal Keaervs Bank is authorised, as to mauhor 
b a u U & o v otiHi>: indicated 
haadcuovteved in ite 
^strict or under rubpara3raph (25) or this paragraph, as co itc 
fleers; 
* 
(26) Under the provisions of the first paragraph of Section 9 
t h o F c c" o r G l ^ e r v e Act 0 2 U.S.C, 323) to approve applications 
£ O V ""airship in the Federal Reserve Sy^te..* if the Reserve B^fc 
i;i Batinfiou with respect to each of the following criteria; 
(i) Tht fir facial history ami eoed'.tion of the apply.'. iy, ban!: 
a u G 
general character of its juraana^nt; 
(ii) The adequacy of its capital structure in relation to the 
u^vacter and condition of its asaets and v.o its existing aad 

- 2 ~ 
prospective deposit liabilities and other corporate responsibilities 
arid its future, earnings prospects; 
(iii) The convenience and needs of the community to be. 
served by the bank; and 
(iv) Whether its corporate powers arc; consistent with the 
pui'pores o£ the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Deposit 
-nvuranc- Act:, 
Effective elate. This amendment is effective with respect to 
icetions x zcc.lv zd by the Reserve Banks after the date of this Order, 
by or do) ot the board of Gtvan.o";;, January 15, j 973» 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

2 0 1 
Item No. 8 
1/15/73 
TITLE 12- -MICKS AND EANKIKG 
CHAPTER II—FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SUBCHAPTER A--IiOArU) OF GOVERNORS OF THE FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
rAP. T J: 65-"RULES REGARD I KG DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY 
by Holding 
tetanies 
aPprovg» t 
tl 
In o v ^ r ic delegate to Reserve Banks the authority to 
: h C '"CqUisil>:°n ° f ^ ^ - i o n a l shares In a bank, whether or not 
h'i lv;t,i. • 
" U 
* subsidiary, which shares are acquired through the exer-
" 
r f c c c^ed as n shareholder, the Board has amended 
1 ^ r 
" x* ^ / 
t:0 ^
a
s 
£01 lews : 
fe^f^f™" 
d a e ; : a £' : d 
employees n,,: Federal 
( 0 Each Federal 
toscw 
Bank U authorised, s s t o K c i, b e r 
0 y , 
"tl,Sr l m U c t t £ e d o r s n n l z " t i o » » 'leadqiiarvercd xn its district, 
'paragraph (25> of t'n^ 
, 
' 
" 
i '•«<]!?, as to its olficcrs : 
* 
»i03 
(?:-) Under the provisions of section 3(a)(3) of the. Bank 
A«ino f--
« - P a n v A,t (12 U.S.C, 1042), to approve the acquisition 
W 
' "xng comply of additional shares in a bnnfc that: are to he 
UJou^]> exai'ci ca c v ri^his roco^vr^i r»., 
, t 
thn , 
° 
J i'-cc.Aed, 00 a pro rata basis, h\ 
«harchcleers, 

"2 -
Effective date. This amendment is effective with respect 
to Applications received by the Reserve Banks after the date of this 
By order of the Board of Governors, January 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Beard 
2 0 ° 

Item No. 3 
1/15/73 
9 D A R D D F 
G O V E R N O R S 
•i'o^o.;;-. 
a r T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
205 r>* 
A D D R E S S ? 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T M T 
B O A R D 
'•HrlS^V 
January 17, 1973 
Er^os.-.d a<-o crpies of t:yo amendments to the Board's Rules 
*«8ardli,s Del Nation of Authority. 'luG.se arp.endrac.nts, reflecting the Board s 
Policy o£ c ^ W a t i n e Additional responsibi 11 ties to Reserve Banks in the 
cy 
uermit Reserve Banks to (1) *ct on a request by a holding 
Con»P&r.y to acquire additional shares in a non*u;bsidiary beak that are to be 
through •sxxr.civ.v of righto received, on a pro 
basis, by^ the 
» shareholders, and (2) armrove certain moaibersuip applications by 
as you knot/, Reserve Banks have for some time been permitted 
opprcvft the acquisition by a bank holding company of additional snares 
LVt a subcld-.i;y bank when the shares are to bo acquired through exerexse 
** 
on a pro rata basis, by the bankf3 shareholders, 
..omr-aniea do not need permission to acquire shares whan 
**** than 50 per cent cf the ehaMS are owned, this delegation has cppUeo 
°XxlV to b.vo.ks wher- the holding company's ownership was from 2 5 to 50 per 
or where Cho Board determined that control existed with a emailor 
J«*conture 
The delegation has not applied to nonaubsicsi&r/ »anks. 
^Gcnu.^e there 
to be lit v. is basis i;cr «3i aterentiatin- betwen banks 
the subsidiary and nonsubsidiary categories, the Board has approved 
t h l« further (loir'-.iHnn, As indicated by the order, the delegation 
^fttinurn to sonlv cnlv to authority to approve the acquisition ot 
hh.ro, 
a rrn rata basis. A request by a holding company no ^ 
^ W r o any n w u ^ c v -.bed shares in a rights offering is to be submUteu 
t o Uie Boar-.).. 
It has t ,nn cuc.tovr.ary in instances involving pro rata offers 
anchoritv tc Derm If. applicants to re;iue »:i?r. tacts and 
^nucsf. r>-ro,<ssioi by ieuter. A full application ordinarily r.as not 
U 
desirable to continue that pciiey. As usual, 
c°Pto5 0 f the'Jevter and cf ail relevant men or an:* a should be forwarded 
the hoard, 

January 17, 1973 
-2 
a « 4 
C'r 
5 a 
^ 
Reserve 'dank? formerly has! authority tc approve an application 
ttembershlp oixly it the application was incidental to an application 
t o ^ocotr.e a cv.e-bank holding company. The Board has now delegated authority 
Reserve Bani-s to approve any application for membership if the Reserve 
ic satisfied with respect to each c£ the following criteria: 
(1) The financial history and condition of the applying 
bank and rhe general character of its management; 
(2) lhe adequacy of its capital structure in relation to 
the character and condition of its assets and to its existing 
and prospective deposit liabilities and other corporate 
i'eapoTisiUJ.lifcies; and its future earnings prospects; 
(3) The convenience and needs of the community to be 
served by the banh; arid 
(4) Uiether it*? corporate powers are consistent vith the 
purposes oC the Federal Reserve Act and the Federal Deposit 
l5Viu.rence Act, 
^ . t U e Reserve Bank is not satisfied with respect co any of the above 
'••j'ertp, o r 
regional FDJC office cxpreivP.es opposition, the Reserve 
** to subo.ilt the application to the Board for action. 
Draft letters to be usee by the Reserve Banks to inform both an 
PpHcant for membership and the F!HC of an action are enclcsed. 
Copies 
' ^such .lettersj. of the application for membership, and oC: memoranda 
' n co«nection with the apolicat'cn are to be forwarded to the 
0 
V'hen the Board is advised that all requirements have been met 
W 
appropriate amount of Federal Reserve Bank stock has been 
to the bank, the Board will forward to the bank a Socaal certificate 
^.^'kersbip in the System. 
If you have any questions concerning member-
*:> aPT»I-ic-«uiorm, please contact Mr, Egertson. 
r,.M 
As vith all delegations of the Board's authority, a Reserve Bank 
s V 
appi icat:ion to the Board for its consideration. 
This 
' 
^e done, of course, when any guideline is. not met, or when an 
c-cion xniHQi- a policy Issue on which the i oard has not had an oppor-
t;V to cxp-eas an opinion. 
It may also be done in any other situau/.- 1 
' e r e the Reserve 
believes it appropriate. 
Very truly yours, 
J 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary 
' / 
and brn,, 
* J ® 8 PRESIDENTS OF ALL 2EDKHAV, RESERVE BASES AITO VICE PK38IDBKTS 
G!AUr« Of i;rAECims 

. 
• 
2 0 5 
• D A R Q O F G • VF.RjS!• R S 
I t e m N o- 4 
• 
nr the 
1/15/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
.^rt'".••'•• 
. 
W A S H I N G T O N ' , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
.wS^-'V' ^V"-». 
AODRtfis o f f i c i a l 
t i o « s t s M C N o r N o 
January 16, 1973 
c 1 - a se M anh a £ t aii Ova r s c a s 
Barking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemon: 
As requested in your letters of August 4 and September 14. 
1^72, the Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation, 
( CM0BC"), to purchase and hold, directly or indirectly, all of the 
common and preferred shares of L.B„ Comercio Turismo e Servicos, S. A„ 
pirn 
, 
v -turismo ) , Rio dr. Janeiro, Brazil, at a cost of approximate]y 
00,000 (about $17,000), provided che shares are acquired within 
0)1.; 
OI 
! year from the date ci thin letter, 
The Board"' s consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
shares of Tun. sue is granted subject to the vol loving conditions 
(1) That CtfOBC shall not. hold, directly or indirectly, 
any sijares of stock in Turismo il: Turismo at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organised under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act ecu id, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Turismo establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Brazil or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to CM0BC; 
(/.) That, when required by the Board of: Governors, CMOBC 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Turismo as it ncy require from 
i i.nie to tvaej 
(3) That any share acquisi Lions or dispositions by Turismo 
be reported urrier Sect .'.on 211,8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if TuriSuto were a corporation 
or" cni^ed under Section 2!r j) of the Feeeral Reserve Act; 

Chase 'Manhattan Overseas 
Ranking Corporation 
(4) That Turismo shall, not conduct its operations as 
a travel agent outside of Brazil; and 
(5) That Turismo shall not issue to residents of the 
United States credit cards which could be utilized 
in the United States. 
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
susprmds, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (J.) 
0jC the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as they 
relate to restrictions on Loans granted by Turismo in Brazil in the 
currency of that country. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is requested 
that the Board of Governors b -> furnished, through the Federal Reserve 
Bank of tfew York, with copies of Articles of Association, Memorandum 
o f Association, and By-Laws of Turismo. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guidelines 
as they 
ly to Th 2 Chase Manhattan l-an'k, Kc.tional Association, and 
tf-Cfllic.tes. 
Vc ry tru 1 y you r a , 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Bo?nr d 

Item No. 14 
1/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
^ 
* 
CHEMICAL UEVJ YORK CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Chemical New York Corporation, New York, New York, a bank 
h°lding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C, 1342(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent (less directors' 
qualifying shares) of the voting shares of State Bank of Hilton, 
Hilton, New York ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
interested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with C 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments 
and views has expired and the Board has considered the application 
a n d all comments received in light of the factors set forth in 
5 3 C O of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the fourth largest banking organization in 
Nev7 York, controls three banks with aggregate deposits of $8.6 billion 
^Presenting approximately 9 per cent of total deposits in commercial 
banks in the State. 
1/ Acquisition of Bank (deposits of $3.4 million) 
v,°uld not change Applicant's Statewide ranking nor significantly 
increase the concentration of banking resources in New York.-
AlT~banking data are as of June 30, 1972, except where otherwise 
n° t Gd, and are adjusted to reflect bank holding company formations 
and acquisitions approved by the Board through December 31, 1972. 

-2-
208 
Bank is the thirteenth largest of 16 banks in the Rochester 
banking market, controlling less than one-half of one per cent of 
total deposits in that market. 
(Banking data for the Rochester 
Market are as of June 30, 1970.) Applicant's nearest banking sub-
sidiary to Bank is approximately 325 miles distant and there is no 
significant existing competition between it or any other banking 
subsidiary of Applicant and Bank. 
In view of the distances separating 
Applicant1s banking subsidiaries and Bank, and the fact that under 
New York State law Applicant's subsidiaries are prohibited from 
Ranching into the Rochester market until 1976, such competition 
i s unlikely to develop. Moreover, the introduction of Applicant 
a s a vigorous competitor into the Rochester market would be particu-
l a rly beneficial in view of its concentrated nature (the four largest 
banklng organizations control 92 per cent of market deposits). 
Acquisition of Bank by Applicant would also break an existing ownership 
tie between Bank and another bank located in the Rochester market, 
thereby providing an additional competitor. The Board concludes 
tllat consummation of the proposal would have no adverse effects on 
listing or potential competition. 
The financial condition, managerial resources, and future 
pr°spects of Applicant, its subsidiary banks, and Bank appear 
generally satisfactory and are consistent with approval of the 
aPplication, 
Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of 
t*16 community to be served are consistent with approval of the 

16 
-2-
aPplication, since Applicant through Bank will be able to provide 
additional services at a more convenient location for many customers 
i n the Rochester area. It is the Board's judgment that consummation 
o f the proposed acquisition would be in the public interest and that 
application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
c°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
effective date of this Order, or (b) later than three months after 
et*fective date of this Order, unless such period is extended 
f CVY* good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve Bank of New 
Yn 1 
rk> pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,U effective January 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
~~~ 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL] 
5( t^ t i nS~for This action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
riell} Daane, ftrdnnnor, Sheehan and Bucher. 

210 
Item 
No. 
8 
1/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
GREAT AMERICAN CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bell Finance Service 
Great American Corporation, Baton Rouge, Louisiana, a bank holding 
COlnpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied for 
t h e Sard's approval, under § 4(c)(8) of the Act and § 225.4(b)(2) of the 
Sard's Regulation Y, to indirectly acquire, through its subsidiary known 
a s Ambank Acceptance Corporation, a portion of the assets of Bell 
ance Service, New Orleans, Louisiana ("Company"), a consumer finance 
Con*Pany that 
engages in the activities of making or acquiring consumer loans 
a n d other extensions of credit. Applicant has also applied for permission 
t 0 engage through Company, in the activity of acting as agent or broker in 
tlle sale of credit life, health, accident, and property damage insurance 
t h a t Protects the collateral in which Company has a security interest. Such 
activities 
have been determined by the Board to be closely related to the 
busineSS of banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1) and (9)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
rs°ns to submit comments and views on the public interest factors, has 
b G e n d uly published (37 Federal Register 35074). The time for filing 
Con^ents and views has expired, and none have been timely received. 
Applicant controls one bank with deposits of approximately $294 
"^Hon, representing 3.7 per cent of total deposits in commercial banks 
ill 
^ t h e State. 
(All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect 
hiding company formations and acquisitions approved by the Board through 
D ^ e m b G r 3 1 > 
1 9 ? 2 > ) 

211 
-2-
Company has a consumer loan portfolio of 110 accounts aggregating 
$ 1 o 7 
»°°0- Applicant's subsidiary, Ambank Acceptance Corporation, has con-
sumer finance offices in Alexandria, Shreveport, Baton Rouge, and Metairie, 
L°uisiana. Of these, only Applicant's Metairie office (consumer loan portfolio 
» 78) is located in the same geographical area as Company. However, due 
the differing economic and social environments of the areas served by the 
fcw offices, their small size, and the local nature of the consumer finance 
DUg-f n e s s> there is no significant competition between the two and none is 
lik 
e ly to develop in the near future. Additionally, approximately 100 con-
m e r finance companies with 187 offices compete in the New Orleans area and 
Board concludes, that consummation of the proposal would have no adverse 
^fect-* on existing or potential competition. 
Applicant's consumer finance subsidiaries and Company both sell 
Credit n c 
J-ife, health and accident insurance in connection with loans they 
a t e . 
Company also sells credit property damage insurance in connec-
n With loans it originates. Due to the limited and local nature of the 
a nce activities engaged in by Applicant's subsidiaries and Company, it 
n°t appear that operation of Company's insurance activities by Appli-
cant 
v°uld have any significant effect on either existing or potential 
C°mP*tition. 
There is no evidence on the record indicating that consummation 
the Proposal would result in any undue concentration of resources, unfair 
C 0 ^ t i t i ( 
etse effects on the public interest. Applicant's financial support of 
i-on, conflicts of interest, unsound banking practices, or other 

212 
-3-
Company should result in greater availability of credit for area residents. 
Accordingly, the public benefits are consistent with approval. Based upon 
foregoing and other considerations reflected in the record, the Board 
has determined that the balance of the public interest factors the Board is 
required to consider under § 4(c)(8) is favorable. Accordingly, the appli-
cation is hereby approved. This determination is subject to the conditions 
S e t forth in § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y and to the Board's authority to 
rGcluire such modification or termination of the activities of a holding 
company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds necessary to assure 
c°mPliance with the provisions and purposes of the Act and the Board's reg-
ulations and orders issued thereunder, or to prevent evasion thereof. 
1 / 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
^ 
Voting for this action; Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
itchell, Daane, Brimmer, Slieehan, and Bucher. 

Item No. 20 
1/15/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
FIRST NATIONAL FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
First National Financial Corporation, Kalamazoo, Michigan, 
bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act h 
» 
as applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 
•S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire all of the voting shares (less 
direct 
i 
° r s 
qualifying shares) of the successor by merger to First 
Nati0n i 
°ai Bank of Holland, Holland, Michigan ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
persons f* 
u • 
«-o submit comments and views, has been given in accordance 
§ 
r t 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has 
6Xpite, 
> and none have been timely received. The Board has considered 
the 
aPPlication in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act 
(l2 U-S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the eleventh largest banking organization in 
^ c h i g a n 
controlling three banks with aggregate deposits of $306 million, 
ePresentinr» i oc 
i . p e r cent of the total deposits in commercial banks 
^ the stif- 1/ 
a c e - 
Applicant's acquisition of Bank ($33.7 million in 
S o 8 i t s v 
> would increase Applicant's share of State deposits by 
lately one-tenth of o percentage point to approximately one and 
^ 
Per cent, increase its rank among State banking organizations 
^ 
eleventh to tenth, and would not significantly increase the 
n t rati o n of banking resources in the State. 
c a n k i l l S d a t a a r e a S ° f J u n e 3 0' 1 9 7 2 ' a d J u s t e d to reflect bank 
r°Ueh _° mP a ny formations and acquisitions approved by the Board 
December 31, 1972. 

214 
-2-
Bank is the smallest of three banks located in the Holland, 
Michigan banking market controlling approximately 20 per cent of 
total deposits in that area. Applicant's nearest subsidiary banking 
office is located more than 23 miles from Bank. Due to the distance 
eParating the institutions, the presence of several banks in the 
^tervening a r e a , and the State limitations on bank branching, it does 
n o t appear that any significant existing or potential competition between 
an 
2 / 
Applicant's existing or proposed- subsidiary banking offices 
nci Bank would be eliminated upon consummation of this proposal. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
APPlicant. its subsidiary banks and Bank appear satisfactory and are 
°nsistent with approval of the application. Upon approval of this 
nation, Applicant proposes to provide, through Bank, a broader 
vsram of time deposit accounts, extended banking hours, trust services, 
Credit card plan, more extensive loan services, and more agricultural 
loans 
T 
in view of the commercial and agricultural growth projected 
th 
n e Holland area, the needs of area residents would be better served 
by
 
i n 
^creased and improved services, particularly agricultural loans, 
W°uld be offered by Bank under Applicant's sponsorship. 
Accordingly, 
scions relating to the convenience and needs of the communities 
t0 b e se rved lend weight to approval of the application. 
Str P lJ C a n t h a s a n application pending to acquire The Commercial Bank 
ambaugh, Strambaugh, Michigan. 

215 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
( a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date 
o f this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date 
o f this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard, or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ e f f e c t i v e January 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
Sit 
for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
chell, Danne, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. 

Item No. 8 
1/15/73 
216 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
SOUTHEAST BANKING CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Banks 
Southeast Banking Corporation, Miami, Florida, a bank holding 
Coinpany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
f o r the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of Bank of Florida 
a t Fort Lauderdale ("Florida Bank"), and Bankers Bank of Florida 
( Bankers Bank"), both located in Fort Lauderdale, Florida. 
Notice of the applications, affording opportunity for interested 
Petsoris to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3 
(k) Of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
the Board has considered the applications and all comments received 
in i 
liSht of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 
1842(C)). 
Applicant controls 19 banks with aggregate deposits of 
billion, representing 7.8 per cent of deposits in commercial 
b a n k s in Florida. 
(Banking data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect 
holding company formations and acquisitions approved through 
M e m b e r 30, 1972.) The acquisitions of Florida Bank (deposits of 
$9 i 
million) and Bankers Bank ($5.2 million) would increase Applicant's 
e °f Statewide deposits by only 0.1 percentage point and would not 
esult i n a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
A u t o e s in Florida. 

217 
-2-
The banks proposed to be acquired are located in the North 
Howard-Fort Lauderdale banking market wherein Applicant presently 
controls two banks with total deposits of $95 million, representing 
per cent of aggregate market deposits. Applicant ranks as the 
fifth largest of the 21 banking organizations in the market. The 38 
Market banks represent nine multi-bank holding companies, five banking 
groups, three one-bank holding companies, and four independent banks, 
applicant's proposed acquisitions of the thirty-first and thirty-third 
largest banks in the market would increase its control of market deposits 
only l.l percentage points. 
Subject banks, located four miles apart in the City of 
F o r t Lauderdale, do not compete significantly with each other, each 
Rawing 1 per cent or less of its deposits and loans from the service 
a te a of the other. Moreover, no significant competition exists between 
Subject banks and Applicant's two subsidiaries in the market, each of 
^hich draws less than 1 per cent of its deposits and loans from the 
Service areas of subject banks. It further appears that no significant 
am°unt of potential competition would be eliminated by consummation of 
th 
e Proposed acquisitions because of the number of banking alternatives 
^ich intervene these banking offices and in view of Florida's laws 
t<?-s trie ting branching. 
novo entry into the subject service areas 
aPPcars unattractive at the present time. It is the Board's judgment 
competitive considerations are consistent with approval of the 
applications. 

-3-
218 
The financial conditions and managerial resources of Applicant, 
it:s subsidiary banks, as well as Florida Bank and Bankers Bank are 
regarded as generally satisfactory, and the future prospects of 
e a ch appear favorable. Banking factors are consistent with approval 
o f the application. Applicant proposes to assist Florida Bank and 
Bankers Bank in developing more aggressive lending operations. 
APPlicant also proposes to provide Bankers Bank with trust services and to 
make available to both banks its central printing, advertising, data 
Processing and auditing departments, as well as provide a uniform 
insurance program. Considerations relating to the convenience and 
n eed s of the communities to be served are consistent with and lend 
S o m e support toward approval of the applications. 
On the basis of the record, the applications are approved for 
Masons summarized above. The transactions shall not be consummated 
<a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
thi-s Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
tlUs Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
or b y 
the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,1/ effective January 15, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
tSEAL] 
P 
Voting for this action: Chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, 
v^tchel 1, Daane, Brimmer 
Shjeehan. Absent and not voting: Governor 
Bucher. 

Item No. 9 
1/15/73 
O G A R D 
• F 
G O V E R N O R S 
,• V'o'oHioi^ •. 
n F T H F- 
g-? 2 ' 5 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C . 
2 0 5 5 1 
• "j^VT'—VY. ' 
\ 
1 ' \ 
• H 
r
^
; 
• 
A D O H c a S 
O F F I C I A L 
C D R f l C S f O N D E N r t 
T D T H C 
B U A R D 
January 15, 1973 
Tea ."iot?rd has approved a change in credit policy 
applicable to all check deposits made by Government agencies v. 
3«Sirn>ftj- February 15, 1973, all checks received by the 
appropriate deposit deadline at Reserve Banks will ba credited 
the Treasurergeneral account, the following day. This 
tfcpUxe.s all presort credit policies i.nclcdir,^ calculation of 
a<:tur-\ credit and va.iCoi.ir. tva-day detemen*.; icr -tixed cash 
»•«•..); 
Xha Co el eter.ee of Firs v. Via-. Presidents co'.icvvs in 
new policy. 
P)case take appropriate action to initiate this change 
ir- Policy, 
Very truly yours, 
// 
... 
r\ 
! 
, 
„ / 
/'V— 
J 
'iynan Smith 
Secretary 

220 
B O A R D O F G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 10 
. _ 
OF THE 
1/15/73 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Si'-'?.'Fn*rf:T,.£ > 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
2055) 
AODHEBS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDE NCE 
' 
' 
TO THE BOARD 
January 16, 1973 
My• John K. Carlock 
Fiscal Assistant Secretary 
S. Treasury Department 
Ma'in Treasury Building 
Washington, D. C. 
20220 
De*r Mr. Carlock: 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has apnroved a change in its operating policy regarding 
Govorninent agency check deposits. The new policy provides for 
uniform one-day credit of all deposits received by the applicable 
Koserve Bank deposit deadline, regardless of the previous or 
actual credit of the item or items deposited. The new policy 
become effective February 15, 1973. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary to the Beard 

T E L E G R A M 
FEDERAL RESERVE COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM 
B O A R D O F GOVERNORS OF T H E F E D E R A L R E S E R V E SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON 
January 15, 19 73 
Presidents, all Federal Reserve Banks 
In our telegram of December 22, 19 72. final action on the proposed 
Federal Reserve Bank budgets for the first half of 1973 was planned 
prior to January 15, 1973. 
J.t. has been necessary to defer action for 
s few more days. Authorizations to continue spending at current rates 
m-.d for staff additions within the December 31, 1972 authorized manpower 
•levels or for programs for which full-time positions have been sneeitically 
approved are con»-i.nuad until further notice. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
22 i 
Item No. 11 
1/15/73 
T. SMITH 
