MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 9, 1973 

15:1 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 9, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Rippey, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mr. Sigel, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finanee 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Lyon, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Sidman, Assistant Director, Division of Super-
vision and Regulation 
Mr. Wilbanks and Mrs. Scott of the Office of the 
Secretary 
Other appropriate members of the staff also 
attended portions of the meeting. 
United Banks of Colorado. 
In a memorandum dated December 19, 
1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 

1/9/73 
-2-
Section recommended approval of the application of United Banks of 
Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares of National Bank 
of Delta, Delta, Colorado, 
After discussion the application was approved unanimously, 
with the stipulation that United Banks of Colorado augment the capital 
position of Mesa United Bank of Grand Junction, N.A., Grand Junction, 
Colorado, one of its banking subsidiaries. 
Issuance of order reflecting 
that decision was also authorized. A copy is attached as Item No. 1. 
(Note: The stipulation regarding augmentation of capital was set forth 
in a telephone conversation and a confirming letter to the applicant.) 
Income and condition report schedules. 
In a memorandum dated 
January 5, 1973, Mr. Veenstra of the Division of Data Processing requested 
a Board decision with respect to public disclosure of two reports filed 
by State member banks: 
(1) the annual Report of Income, including 
schedules; and (2) schedules printed on the reverse side of the Report 
of Condition. A decision to disclose the income information would affect 
banks with less than 500 stockholders, since banks with 500 or more 
stockholders were presently required to disclose such information. 
Mr. Veenstra stated that the staff recommended public disclosure of 
both the income data and the schedules on the back of the call report 
under terms to be worked out at the staff level with the other Federal 
bank supervisory agencies. 

A 1)3 
1/9/73 
-3-
After discussion the Board unanimously approved in principle 
the staff recommendation with the understanding that the information 
in the Report of Condition schedules would not be made available until 
after consultation with the staff of the other Federal bank supervisory 
agencies. 
It was also understood that Governor Mitchell would review 
the staff findings and that if there were no problems, the matter 
would not be considered further by the Board. 
A copy of the press release issued on January 24 pursuant to 
this action is attached as Item No. 2. 
Chase Manhattan Overseas Banking Corporation. 
In a memorandum 
dated December 20, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation 
recommended approval of the application of Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation, New York, New York, to establish a bank in Luxembourg* 
After discussion of the problem of getting adequate information 
on the operations of foreign subsidiaries, the Board unanimously approved 
the application. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as Item No. 3. 
Multiple maturity time deposits. 
Several letters had recently 
been referred to the Board regarding the automatic renewal feature of 
a multiple maturity time deposit under Regulation Q, Interest on Deposits. 
The letters complained that multiple maturity time deposits may trap 
an unwary depositor into having his money locked into a savings account 

154 
1/9/73 
<4 
for an additional period, and that the Board's regulation prohibiting 
payment of a time deposit prior to maturity, except in the event of 
a hardship, in effect closes the trap. With a memorandum dated Jan-
uary 2, 1973, the Legal Division presented draft replies to the letters. 
After discussion during which suggestions were made and changes 
agreed upon, the Board unanimously approved the letters. Copies of 
the letters subsequently sent are attached under Item No. 4. 
First at Orlando Corporation. 
In a memorandum dated January 4, 
1973, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the Banking Markets 
Section recommended approval of the application of First at Orlando 
Corporation, Orlando, Florida, to acquire shares of Citrus First National 
Bank of Leesburg, Leesburg, Florida, a proposed new bank. 
After discussion during which several alternative views were 
expressed, it was agreed that the application should be considered 
further at a time when more Board members could be present. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

155 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
Item No. 1 
1/9/73 
UNITED BANKS OF COLORADO, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
United Banks of Colorado, Inc., Denver, Colorado, a bank holding 
company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has applied 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) 
t o acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting shares of National Bank of 
Delta, Delta, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Persons to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
» 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, and 
n°ne has been timely received. The Board has considered the application 
iri light of the factors set forth in 5 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant controls 12 banks with aggregate deposits of $781.6 
Million, representing 14.6 per cent of commercial bank deposits in Colorado 
at*d is the second largest banking organization in the State. 
(All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1972 and reflect holding company acquisitions and 
formations approved through November 30, 1972). The acquisition of Bank 
(deposits of $5.3 million) would increase Applicant's share of State deposits 
by only 0.1 per cent and it would remain the second largest banking organi-
2ation in Colorado. 
Bank is the smaller of two banks in Delta and is the second 
largest of five banks, ranging in size from $3.2 million to $13.8 million in 
deposits, in Delta County. Bank controls 16.5 per cent of deposits in Delta 
County which approximates the relevant market. Delta is located on 
1/ 
Colorado's "Western Slope". 
Applicant has two existing banking subsidiaries 
i/ The 21-County Area of western Colorado separated from the remainder of the 
state by the north-south tier of the Rocky I-lountains. 

156 
-2-
the Western Slope, both in markets adjacent to Delta County. These 
W k s located in Montrose and Grand Junction are approximately 20 and 40 
away respectively from Bank, Approval of the application would not 
eliminate any significant direct competition between these banks and Bank 
°r between any other of Applicant's banking subsidiaries and Bank. In the 
absence of the proposals competition is unlikely to develop between Bank 
an<l any of Applicant's present banking subsidiaries in view of the distances 
SeParating them and Colorado's restrictive branching law. Although Applicant 
c°uld enter the Delta County area through the formation of a de novo bank, 
likelihood of such entry is considered remote at this time because of 
t a e size of the County and its decline in population as well as other facts 
Record. 
Affiliation with Applicant may spur competition between Bank 
the other bank in Delta which is 2 1/2 times the size of Bank without 
adversely affecting other banks in the market. Accordingly, competitive 
c°nsiderations are regarded as consistent with approval. 
The financial and managerial resources and prospects of 
applicant, its banking subsidiaries, and Bank appear to be generally 
Satisfactory considering Applicant's commitment to augment the capital 
p°sition of certain of its banking subsidiaries. Although approval of the 
application would not result in any new services in the area, it is likely 
Bank will improve and expand the number of services it presently 
°£fers. Bank also will utilize the computer services of Applicant which is 
Cicely to result in increased efficiency and accuracy in account processing 
a t the Bank. Considerations related to the convenience and needs of the 
immunities involved lend some support for approval of the application. "It 

-3-
157 
is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be in the public interest 
and that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for the 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated (a) 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of this Order 
or (b) later than three months after the effective date of this Order, unless 
such period is extended for good cause by the Board, or by the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Kansas City pursuant to delegated authority. 
2/ 
2.0 1973 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January . , 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
[SEAL] 
If Voting for this action: 
Daane, Sheehan and Bucher, 
and Governor Brimmer. 
Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns and 

frp'f 'JA* ! 
F°r in-mediate release 
Item No. 2 
1/9/73 
January 24, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System announced today 
it will ,?oon make available to the public upon request two additional 
fin 
iaucial reports filed with the Federal Reserve by State member banks. 
The reports are the annual Report of Income and the detailed 
C o^ition Report schedules of loans, cash assets, demand and time deposits and 
°th? 
r assets and liabilities, filed quarterly. Previously, only the face of 
Condition Report, which under State and Federal regulations must be pub-
ll8h*d in a newspaper circulated in a bank's local area, had been available 
° v public inspection. 
Concurrent action to make the reports available to the public has 
taken by the Comptroller of the Currency for national banks and by the 
Tpr1 
Deposit Insurance Corporation for State banks that are not members of 
t(lq Federal Reserve System. 
This action by the Board toward greater public disclosure is 
d i s t a n t with the Intent: of the Public Information Act and provides addi-
^oo.al ir.fonvation of interest: to bank stockholders and customers as well as 
to -«r;aiyS;:s 0 f bank performance ir. the business and academic communities. 
Fabric disclosure of these reports has been under consideration 
the adept ion in 1969 of more uniform reporMag requirements by the 
'^ing ogcnci.es. Stsndards and procedures will be established and announced 
Sh 
0,'-tiy to facilitate th^ disclosure of r.hi^ in format ion. It is anticipated 
!ta from the 
ceir.ber 31. 5 • 7 •> .epnrty ' n u 
va liable i n s eve ra1 
iTlC.v-' 
Ju 

1 5 0 
B O A R D O F 
G D V E R N D R S 
• F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D . 
C. 
20551 
Item No. 3 
1/9/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C • R R E S P • N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
Q D A R O 
'.KreT^ 
January 9, 1973 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
1 Chase Manhattan Plaza 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of November 16, 1972, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation. ("CM0BC"), 
to purchase and held the shares of a bank, ("Lux Bank") , to be 
organized in Luxembourg, at a cost of approximately $2,300,000, 
provided the shares are acquired within one year from the date of 
this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed purchase and holding 
of shares of Lux Bank by CM0BC is granted subject to the following 
conditions; 
(1) That CM0BC shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
, any shares of stock in Lux Bank if Lux Bank at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if Lux Bank establishes 
any branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in Luxembourg or elsewhere, in any 
manner, which at the time would not be permissible to 
CM0BC; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, CM03C 
will furnish the Board with such reports regarding 
the activities of Lux Bank as it may require from time 
to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by Lux Bank 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K in 
the same manner as if Lux Bank were a corporation 
organized under Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve Act. 

160 
Chase Manhattan Overseas 
Banking Corporation 
-2-
Subject to continuing observation and review, the Board 
suspends, until further notice, the provisions of subparagraph (1) 
of the immediately preceding paragraph of this letter so far as 
they relate to restrictions set forth in Section 211.9(a), (b), and 
(c) of Regulation K. 
You have requested consent for Lux Bank to engage in the 
business of underwriting or dealing in securities. 
The Board's 
consent to such activities is conditioned upon your Corporation's 
obtaining the prior consent of the Board for the continued holding 
of shares of Lux Bank should Lux Bank acquire stock of individual 
issuers costing in excess of $500,000 or representing 25 per cent 
of the voting shares of any company, except in the case of under-
writing operations covered by firm commitments from subunderwriters 
or other purchasers. With respect to trading in securities in 
which Corporations are prohibited from investing by the provisions 
of the eighth paragraph of Section 2 5(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. the Board*s consent is further conditioned on the fact that 
Lux Bank will acquire such shares only as dealer or underwriter, 
maintain a size and turnover of inventory that is reasonable in 
relation to demand, and dispose of such shares within a reasonable 
t ime. 
In this connection, shares acquired as a dealer need not 
be reported under Section 211,8(d) of Regulation K. However, they 
are to be reported as a separate class, together with the date of 
acquisition, on any Call Report of Condition or similar report re-
quested by the Board. 
Upon completion of the proposed acquisition, it is re-
quested that the Board of Governors be furnished, through the Federal 
Reserve Bank of New York, with copies of Articles of Association, 
Memorandum of: Association, and By-Laws of Lux Bank. 
The Board also grants consent for CM0BC to continue to 
hold the shares of Lux Bank after Lux Bank issues and has outstanding 
obligations with maturities in excess of one year in an amount not 
exceeding 20 times its registered and paid-in capital. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
investment will be made within the Foreign Credit Restraint Guide-
lines as they apply to The Chase Manhattan Bank, National Association, 
and its affiliates. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

JUll 
B O A R D O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
• r THE 
Item No0 4 
1/9/73 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
20551 
ADDRE33 Uf-FICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE HOARD 
January 23, 1973 
Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer, Director 
Office of Consumer Affairs 
Executive Office of the President 
New Executive Office Building 
Washington, D. C. 
20506 
Dear Mrs. Knauer: 
This is in response to your request for a report regarding 
a letter from Mr. Max Friedson, President of the Congress of Senior 
Citizens in Miami, Florida, in which he comments adversely on the 
practice of the automatic renewal of time deposits without the 
express consent of the depositor at the time of the renewal. An 
enclosure with Mr. Friedson's letter relates the experience of 
Mrs. Betty 0eni.eser, a member of his organization, whose time 
deposit was automatically renewed apparently without her express 
consent. Mr. Fried son requests that he?" rime deposit be paid 
immediately a net that national beaks be prohibited from using on 
automatic renewal provision in the time certificates of deposit 
they offer. 
Member banks of the Federal Reserve System are permitted 
to offer their customers time deposits without an automatic renewal 
feature (known as "single maturity time deposits") or time deposits 
with an automatic renewal feature (known as "multiple maturity time 
deposits"). With respect to single maturity time deposits, after 
the maturity date the deposit becomes a demand deposit and no 
longer earns interest. 
In order not t:o lose any interest on the 
investment following the maturity of the obligation, the depositor 
must act promptly to take out a new time deposit (or to Invest 
the funds elsewhere). With respect to multiple maturity time 
deposits, the depositor may redeem the certificate at the txpirst.io 
of' the original maturity period or, if he does not notify r.he. bank 
within a certain period of tine (usually 10 days) following the 
original maturity date, the deposit will be automatically renewed 
for 'an additional period. 
(The. time deposit contract may provide 
for a number of renewal periods; the rules at each renewal date^ 
are the same as those that apply ou the original maturity date,) 
A multiple maturity time deposit that is automatically renewed 
earns interest without interruption. 

Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer, Director 
-2-
The automatic renewal feature is thought to provide 
useful benefits for a large number of depositors. Time deposits 
with such a feature permit customers to evaluate their investments 
at regular intervals. 
If the depositor wishes to use the funds or 
invest them elsewhere, he or she may redeem the certificate on 
the original maturity date or on any of the subsequent maturity 
dates. If the depositor wishes to maintain the deposit, no further 
action need be taken and the depositor is assured that no interest 
will be lost following the original or any subsequent maturity 
date . 
The Board regrets the. experience Mrs. Genieser had with 
respect to her investment. However, the choice of whether to invest 
in a single maturity time deposit or a multiple maturity time deposit 
is one that rests with the customer. If the customer wishes to enjoy 
the advantages that multiple maturity time deposits have relative to 
single maturity time deposits, the depositor must, in return, assume 
the responsibility of looking after his or her investment. 
In order 
to assure that depositors are reasonably notified of the terms of 
a multiple maturity time deposit, the Board requires member banks 
to place the automatic renewal provision on the face of Lhe time 
certificate of deposit (which is retained by the depositor). 
Furthermore, it is the Board's understanding that the deposit 
agreements are explained by the bank at the time oi deposit and, 
in fact, are agreed to by the depositor. The widespread use of 
time deposits with an automatic renewal feature and the minimal 
number of complaints of the type raised by Mr. Friedson suggest to 
the Board that prohibiting the use of an automatic renewal provision 
or imposing requirements on banks that may result in banks paying 
lower rates of interest on deposits with such a feature would work 
a disservice to a great number of depositors. 
It appears that Mrs. Genieser feels that the bank took 
advantage of her by renewing her certificate of deposit at less than 
the going rate of interest. The Board notes, however, that the 
interest rate paid by the bank is the maximum rate that a member 
bank may pay on a time deposit of that maturity and amount ignoring 
slight variations depending upon how frequently the interest is 
compounded. 
(See enclosed copy of Regulation Q including statutory 
Appendix.) Thrift institutions which are not members of the 
Federal Reserve System may be permitted to pay slightly higher 
interest rates. 
It is the Board's understanding that the bank involved 
may be willing to redeem Mrs. Genieser's certificate prior to 
maturity if she is able to demonstrate a hardship as contemplated 
by the Board's regulation (§ 217.4 of Regulation 0). The restriction 

Mrs. Virginia H. Knauer, Director 
-3-
iraposed by Regulation Q are designed to fulfill the Board's respon-
sibility of assuring that interest-bearing time deposits do not 
become, in effect, deposits payable on demand (rather than at 
maturity) in the light of the prohibition in section 19 of the 
Federal Reserve Act (quoted in the statutory Appendix to Regulation 
Q) on the payment of interest by member banks on demand deposits. 
Section 19 was one of a series of reform measures enacted by the 
Congress in 1933 to eliminate certain unsound banking practices. 
The Board appreciates your bringing Mr. Friedson's 
complaint to our attention. 
It has raised the question in the 
minds of some members of the Board whether the rules for permitting 
early withdrawals from time deposits might be relaxed somewhat and 
yet remain consistent with the Board's responsibilities under the 
Federal Reserve Act. The Board has directed its staff to study 
the issues involved and to present the matter for the Board's 
consideration. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
Rnclosure 
Similar letter sent to Senator Lawton Chiles. 

[[[lite: 
e g a r i n r- g n v e R n g R s 
o r 
r H E 
F E D E R A L R E 5 E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
V A S H I N G T O N , 
O. 
C. 
2C351 
ADDRESS cmciAL Car?SE3PUMOEKCE 
'r-'jyfr 
TH THE BO AM O 
January 23, 1973 
Mr, Richard J. Puffer 
2705 4th Street Ct. 
East Moline, Illinois 
61244 
Dear Mr. Puffer: 
This is in response to your letter dated November 7, 
1972, to the Comptroller of the Currency, which was referred to 
the Board on December 4, 1972, that recommends modification of 
the Board's Regulation 0, "Interest on Deposits," insofar as 
it relates r.o the withdrawal of time deposits that have an auto-
matic renewal feature. You suggest that such deposits (which 
the Board designates as multiple maturity time deposits) should 
provide tor both the withdrawal at any time after expiration of 
the originally specified time period and the continuous payment 
of interest alter expiration of the originally specified time 
period, although perhaps at a lower rate. 
Regulation Q defines various types of deposits and 
specifies the maximum interest rales which member banks may 
pay on the different types and maturities of deposits. A copy 
of Regulation Q is enclosed for your reference. The actual 
rates paid and the specific features of a deposit agreement are 
a matter of contract between an individual depositor and his 
bank, as long as the rates agreed to do not exceed the maximum 
rates prescribed by the Board, and as long as the other terms 
of the contract are not inconsistent with the Board's regula-
tions. Generally, time deposit contracts are available either 
with or without an automatic renewal feature and the offering 
of either type is consistent with the Board's regulations. 
Section 217.4 of Regulation Q provides that member 
banks may not pay time deposits before maturity except in 
an emergency where it is necessary to prevent greac hardship 
to the depositor. The restrictions imposed by Regulation Q 
are intended to fulfill the Board's responsibility of assuring 
that interest-bearing time deposits do not become, in effect, 
deposits payable on demand (rather than at maturity) in the 
light of the prohibition in section 19 of the Federal Reserve 
Act (quoted in the statutory Appendix to Regulation Q) on the 
payment of interest by member banks on demand deposits. 
Sec-
tion 19 was one of a series of reform measures enacted by the 
Congress in 1933 to eliminate certain unsound banking practices. 

Mr. Richard J. Puffer 
- 2 -
Ycur recommendations would apparently treat a multiple 
maturity time deposit differently from a single maturity time 
deposit. 
Such treatment raises a number of conflicts with the 
basic regulatory plan. However, your letter has raised the ques-
tion in the minds of some members of the Board whether the rules 
for permitting early withdrawals of time deposits (regardless 
of whether such time deposits are single maturity or multiple 
maturity time deposits) might be relaxed somewhat and yet remain 
consistent with the Board's responsibilities under section 19 of 
the Federal Reserve Act. The Board has directed its staff to 
study the issues involved and to present the matter for the 
Board's consideration. 
The Board appreciates your taking the 
time and effort to comment upon Regulation Q. 
Tliis matter was also referred to us by The Honorable 
Tom Railsback, United States House of Representatives, and a 
copy of this letter is being sent to him. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of.' the Board 
Enclosure 
cc: The Honorable Tom Railsback 
House of Representatives 
Washington., D. C. 
20515 
