MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
January 23, 1973 

O 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Tuesday, January 23, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:00 a.m. 
PRESENT: Mr. Burns, Chairman 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Melnicoff, Deputy Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Miss Carmichael, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Partee, Adviser to the Board and Director, 
Division of Research and Statistics 
Mr. Ilackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Solomon, Director, Division of Supervision 
and Regulation 
Mrs. Heller, Assistant General Counsel 
Mr. Plotkin, Adviser, Legal Division 
Mr. Keir, Adviser, Division of Research and 
Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance 
Mr. Norwood, Adviser, Division of International 
Finance 
Mr. Barnes, Assistant Director, Division of 
Federal Reserve Bank Operations 
Mr. Leavitt, Deputy Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mr. Dahl, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Miss Hart, Assistant Director, Division of 
Supervision and Regulation 
Mrs. Semia and Mrs. Scott of the Office of 
the Secretary 
Other supporting staff 

f.lf * rt 
1/23/73 
-2-
Consent calendar. As recommended in a memorandum of January 18, 
1973, from the Division of Supervision and Regulation, the Board unanimously 
_approved the convening of a one-day meeting of the Advisory Committee on 
Truth in Lending on March 28, 1973, to discuss the final report of the 
National Commission on Consumer Finance, implementation of legislation 
proposed by the Board to Congress, and other technical problem areas within 
the purviex^ of the Truth in Lending Act. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Third National 
Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, to acquire shares of the successor by 
merger to Bank of Knoxville, Knoxville, Tennessee, and authorized issuance 
of an order reflecting that decision. A copy of the order is attached as 
Item No. 1. 
This concluded consideration of the consent calendar. 
First National City Bank. The Board unanimously denied the 
application of First National City Bank, New York, New York, for a fourth 
extension of time to acquire shares of First National City Bank (Switzerland) 
S.A., Geneva, Switzerland. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is 
attached as Item No. 2. 
Grandfather rights (D. H. Baldwin Company). 
In a memorandum of 
December 27, 1972, the Division of Supervision and Regulation and the 
Banking Markets Section reported on the review of the nonbanking activities 
of D. H. Baldwin Company, Cincinnati, Ohio, under the grandfather provisions 
of the Bank Holding Company Act. The activities in question fell into 
four groups: 
(1) manufacture and sale of musical instruments, entertainment 

1/23/73 
-3-
devices, learning and teaching systems, accessories, and related research 
and development; (2) manufacture and sale of electronic products and 
accessories, with related research and development; (3) financing of 
instalment sales to consumers of dealer inventories; and (4) leasing of 
personal property. The staff recommended that no termination of indef-
inite grandfather authority be required, but that leasing activities be 
restricted to those types in which the Baldwin Company was engaged on 
June 30, 1968. 
Discussion developed unanimous agreement upon a preliminary 
determination that the holding company should be required to divest the 
activities in the first and second groups. 
It was understood that the 
company would be apprised of this position and afforded an opportunity 
to submit arguments to the contrary. The staff was requested to develop 
additional information regarding the third and fourth groups of activities, 
as well as specific questions that had been raised, including the system 
of compensating balances maintained by the company's subsidiary bank. 
A copy of the letter sent to the bank holding company is attached as 
Item No. 3. 
Request for Federal Reserve branch. In a memorandum of January 22, 
1973, the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations discussed the request 
of the South Carolina Bankers Association that a Federal Reserve Bank 
branch be established in Columbia, South Carolina. The Division recommended 
denial on the ground that the present organizational structure of the System 

*' 9t 
* £ ' 
1/23/73 
-4-
was adequate to serve the needs of bankers in that part of the country, 
and that more extensive check processing facilities already being planned 
would improve service to the Columbia area. A draft letter was attached. 
After discussion during which it was agreed that the letter would 
be revised to reflect a different emphasis, the Board unanimously approved 
the sending of the letter in the form attached as Item No. 4. 
Richmond RCPC proposals. 
In a memorandum of January 17, 1973, 
the Division of Federal Reserve Bank Operations stated that the Federal 
Reserve Bank of Richmond had proposed a comprehensive plan to achieve 
overnight presentment of all checks in the Fifth District. The total 
plan would involve location of regional check processing centers at the 
Richmond and Charlotte offices as well as in leased facilities at Charleston, 
West Virginia, and Columbia, South Carolina, and expansion of the present 
center at the Baltimore Branch. At the present time the Division recom-
mended approval of the Reserve Bank's plans for establishment of the 
Charlotte and Columbia RCPC's and expansion of the RCPC at Baltimore, 
with related start-up costs and increases in operating expenses and 
employment ceilings. The System Steering Committee on Improving the 
Payments Mechanism and the Committee on Organization, Compensation, and 
Building Plans concurred in these recommendations. 
The recommendations were approved unanimously. A copy of the letter 
sent to the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond is attached as Item No. 5. 

1/23/73 
-5-
The meeting continued from this point with limited staff 
attendance. 
Stock market developments. The Research Division commented on 
recent stock market developments, which also had been the subject of a 
memorandum from the Division dated January 19, 1973. In a memorandum 
of January 18 the Division discussed considerations bearing upon the 
possibility of an additional tightening of the same-day substitution 
privilege under the Board's margin regulations for securities transactions. 
(At the time in 1972 when the same-day substitution privilege was with-
drawn from margin accounts with an adjusted equity status of less than 
40 per cent, the Board had contemplated that additional tightening steps 
would follow.) The staff suggested consideration of a modest further 
rise in the cut-off level, perhaps to 50 per cent of adjusted equity. 
Discussion did not indicate a majority inclination to take 
further tightening action today, although suggestions were made that it 
might be appropriate to revert to the question in the very near future. 
Foreign exchange rates. The Division of International Finance 
commented on developments in the foreign exchange markets resulting from 
the announcement that the Swiss franc would be allowed to float. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

Item No. 
1/23/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THIRD NATIONAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Third National Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee, a bank 
holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
(12 U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 100 per cent of the voting shares 
(less directors' qualifying shares) of Third State Bank in Knoxvillej 
the successor by merger to Bank of Knoxville, Knoxville, Tennessee 
("Bank" 
). The bank into which Bank is to be merged has no significance 
e*cept as a means to facilitate acquisition of the voting shares of 
Bank. Accordingly, the proposed acquisition of shares of the successor 
°rganization is treated herein as the proposed acquisition of the 
shares of Bank. 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
comments received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is the fourth largest banking organization in 
Tennessee. It controls one bank, Third National Bank in Nashville, 
with deposits of approximately $616 million, representing 6.8 per 
cent of the total commercial bank deposits in the State. (All banking 
data are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect bank holding company 

268 
-2-
^ormations and acquisitions approved by the Board through December 31, 
iy72.) Consummation of the proposal herein would increase its pro-
Portion of State deposits by only 0.4 percentage points and would not 
result in a significant increase in the concentration of banking 
1/ 
Sources in Tennessee, and Applicant's ranking would be unchanged. 
Bank ($40.8 million in deposits) is the seventh largest of 
banks competing in the Knoxville SMSA, the relevant banking market, 
and holds approximately 4.8 per cent of the commercial bank deposits in 
the market, while the two largest banks in the market hold 52.3 per cent 
o f market deposits. Applicant's nearest subsidiary office to Bank will 
b e its proposed subsidiary in Cleveland, 80 miles southwest of Knoxville 
Applicant's nonbanking subsidiary, Friendly Finance, Incorporated, 
^aducah, Kentucky, a consumer finance company, operates one office 
i n the same market as Bank. However, Bank and Friendly represent a 
Slnall share of the volume of consumer loans outstanding in the relevant 
2/ 
market~~ and there are a substantial number of finance companies 
^ 
In separate applications approved by the Board of Governors on 
^°vember 22, 1972, and January 5, 1973, Applicant was granted permission 
0 acquire all of the voting shares of the successors by merger to, 
Respectively, Merchants Bank, Cleveland, Tennessee, and First National 
of Lawrenceburg, Lawrenceburg, Tennessee. Affiliation of all three 
bar*ks would increase Applicant's share of the total commercial bank 
^Posits in Tennessee only to 7.3 per cent. 
Y 
Friendly's total outstandings were $0.3 million as of October 30, 
5 7 2; Bank's comparable consumer instalment loans amounted to $0.5 million 
a s of j u ne 30, 1972. 

269 
- 3 -
competing in the market. Accordingly, the record indicates that there 
is no significant existing competition between Bank and Applicant and, 
further, that it is unlikely that such competition would develop in 
future in view of the distances involved, the many intervening 
kanks, and the restrictive branching laws of Tennessee. Moreover, the 
Possibility of future competition through de novo entry by Applicant is 
slight. Knoxville SMSA has experienced minimal population growth since 
and is not an attractive market for de_ novo entry. 
Accordingly, 
c°mpetitive considerations are consistent with approval of the application. 
The financial and managerial resources of Applicant, its 
b*nking subsidiary and Bank are considered generally satisfactory. 
The 
future prospects of Applicant, its subsidiary bank and Bank are regarded 
a s 
B°od, Considerations relating to the convenience and needs of the 
c°n-niunity are consistent with approval of the application. 
Applicant 
pr°poses to offer expanded and improved banking services, and it is 
GxPected that the community will benefit. 
It is the Board's judgment 
consummation of the proposed transaction is in the public interest 
atlcJ that the application should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
thp 
e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
tlUs Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 

270 
-4-
this Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
Authority. 
3/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective January 24, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
- 
voting for this action: 
chairman Burns and Governors Robertson, Mitchell 
inutier, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Governor Daane, 

Item No. 2 
B O A R D 
• F G O V E R N O R S 
1 / 2 3 / 7 3 
O F 
T H E 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E S Y S T E M 
271 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
D. 
C. 
20551 
'1QRESS OFFICIAL CORRESPONDENCE 
TO THE board 
January 23, 1973 
First National City Bank 
399 Park Avenue 
New York. New York 
10022 
Gentlemen: 
This is in response to your letter of 
December 8, 1972, requesting a further extension of time 
in which to acquire the stock of First National City Bank 
(Switzerland) S.A., Geneva, Switzerland,, which acquisition 
was approved on December 16, 1968. 
Since further time and study are required for 
the proposed reorganization of your bank's branches in 
Switzerland, the Board has concluded that it would be 
better if your bank iu~.de a new application when your plans 
have reached a more definite stage. 
Accordingly, a lurcher 
extension is not granted. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

o^* 10 
^ I UJ , 
Item No. 
B O A R D D P G O V E R N O R S 
1/23/73 
OF THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 20551 
ADOPCS9 OFFICIAL COSRESPOMPENCE 
TO THE BOARO 
February 5, 1973 
Mr. Lucien Wu 1 s in 
Chairman o£ the Board 
D. H. Baldwin Company 
1801 Gilbert Avenue 
Cincinnati, Ohio 
45202 
Dear Mr. Wulsin: 
In connection with a review (pursuant to § 4(a)(2) of the 
Bank Holding Company Act, as amended) of the "grandfather" privileges 
of D. H. Baldwin*Company. the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System has made a preliminary decision that the grandfather benefits 
accorded i:o D. H. Baldwin Company under the 1970 Amendments co the Acc 
should be terminated wirh respect to (1) the manufacture and sale^ 
of musical instruments, entertainment devices, learning and teaching 
systems, accessories, and research and development of sane; and (2) 
the manufacture and sale of electronic products and accessories, 
and research and development of same. With respect to Baldwin s 
other nonba liking activities, further study by the Board's staff is 
being made of the issues involved. 
In this connection, the Board instructed the staff to 
advise D. H. Baldwin Company of the Board's preliminary decision 
and to afford the company the opportunity to submit any additional 
comments, views, or data that the company may wish to to be considered 
bv the Board before the Board maices its final determination. 
The Board was also interested in such practices-as com-
pensating balances, the off-balance sheet debt of 0. K. Baldwin Trust, 
and efforcs r.o dispose of Anchor Savings and Loan Association. 
Board 
sr.aff would probably want to discuss these and similar matters with 
you. 
You are J.rwUcd to contact Mr. Brcuton C. Leavitt, Deputy 
Director of -the Division of Supervision and Regulation, for the 

Mr. Lucien Wulsin 
- 2 -
purpose of arranging a meeting with members of the Board's staf 
to explore factors already considered by the Board and such add 
tional factors as you may deem appropriate for consideration by 
the Board. Mr. Leavitt's telephone number is 202-737-4171, 
extension 3351. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 4 
B O A R D 
OF 
G G V J I R N • R S 
1/23/73 
.^ofco^-.. 
m " 
"«';• 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
Sinifii 
< 
W A S H I N G T O N , 
n . 
C . 
20551 
address nrru ial crn- sciFOND: nce 
TO THE DDAI;D 
January 24, 1973 
Mr. James L, Iloyt, President 
South Carolina Bankers Association 
Excretive Officc 
2009 Park Street 
P. 0. Box 1483 
Columbia. South Carolina 
29202 
Dear Mr. Ibyt: 
I am pleased to advise you that the Board of Governors 
has approved the establishment of a new Federal Reserve officc to 
be locat >A in Columbia, South Carolina. This office wi ll be ca-
pable of proves sing and clearing checks for the enrira State and 
vril.1 $icvio® improved Federal Reserve services to commercial banks 
In South Carc 1.1 aa . 
The office is part of a program to modernise and equalize 
Federal Reserve services throughout: the country, and follows a 
number of definitive actions already taken. The Board has recently 
adopted measures (1) to redefine reserve cities, (2) to restructure 
reserve requirements according to size of bank (Regulation D), 
(3) i.o require all banks to settle for cash letters on an immediate 
basis (Regulation J), and (4) to implement improved check processing 
facilities. 
The office at Columbia will be capable of handling 
projected increases in. check collection, volume and will provide 
overnight: collection of checks for banks in the entire service 
area--all the counties of South Carolina, With implementation of 
the changes in Regulation J and establishment of the new Federal 
Reserve office, banks in South Carolina will be. able to arrange 
for prompt, payment of cash letters directly or through any South 
Carolina member bank ana will not need to >nai ntain correspondent 
balances for settlement purposes with, any ou -of-State bank. 
The Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond vill begin immediately 
to implement: the Board's decision to establish the facility. 
This 
will include the location and leasing of suitable office space. 

a* 4»1 
Mr. James L. Hoyt 
ordering of equipment, and the hiring and training of personnel to 
operate the office. 
Within 9 to 12 months, the office is expected 
to be fully operational, accepting checks from all participating 
banks in the State. 
If you have any further questions about the office, please 
feel free to contact Mr. Arthur V. Myers, Jr., Vice President of the 
Federal Reserve Dank of Richmond, at 703-648-72 71. 
Very truly yours, 
; 
Tynan Smith 
Secretar}T of the Board 

Item No. 5 
B O A R D 
• F G l l V E R M J P S 
1/23/73 
• F THE 
F" E D E R A L R E S E R V E 5 Y S T E M 
-i* 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 2CS51 
V) W ; 
' . ' 
ADDRESS tlfflCWU CORRESPONDENCE 
• 
Til THE BOARD 
January 23, 1973 
Hr. R. Ps Blacky First Vice President 
federal Reserve Bank of Richmond 
Richmond, Virginia 
23261 
Dear Mr, Black: 
The Board has considered the Richmond proposal for providing 
overnight clearing throughout the Fifth District. Since the Board 
understand.-, that additional study of the aspects of the plan relating 
1-o Virginia and West Virginia is still underway, approval is given 
for only that portion of the plan relating to expansion of the 
Baltimore RCPC and establishing RCPC's in Charlotte and Columbia. 
Approval i c given for additional annual expenditures of 
approximately $865,790. start-up costs of approximately $46,395, and 
an increase in the employment ceiling of 80 positions to implement 
I"be Charlotte and Balr iiicr n portions of the plan. An. adcr r.lortal 
amount not to exceed $',3'70,000 during the first year of operation, 
start-up cent/, not to ezcei-ci $304 5005, and an increase In the person-
nel cei ling not to e>ceed hi positions are. also approved for imple-
mentation of the Columbia Federal Reserve Center. 
The Board understands that the concept of operation of the 
Columbia Center has been modified such that all participating banks 
must agree. to a consolidated sort of all checks for their bead offices 
and branches which will provide certain operating efficiencies and 
opportunities for savings in operating costs. In addition, the Board 
understands that in the Baltimore and Charlotte offices, a concerted 
effort will be made to effect a similar policy as soon as practicable. 
V ary tr\ • 1y you r s, 
Tyv.an Sr - L th 
' Secretary 
