MINUTES 
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
April 20, 1973 
It is proposed to place in the record of policy actions 
required to be kept under the provisions of section 10 of the 
Federal Reserve Act an entry covering the item in this set of 
minutes commencing on the page and dealing with the subject 
referred to below: 
Page 4 Increase in discount rate. 

JLtw 
Minutes of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve 
System on Friday, April 20, 1973. The Board met in the Board Room 
at 10:30 a.m. 
PRESENT: 
Mr. Burns, Chairman 1/ 
Mr. Robertson, Vice Chairman 
Mr. Mitchell 
Mr. Daane 
Mr. Brimmer 
Mr. Sheehan 
Mr. Bucher 
Mr. Holland, Executive Director 
Mr. Smith, Secretary 
Mr. Bernard, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Broida, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Feldberg, Assistant Secretary 
Mr. Hackley, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Cardon, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. Coyne, Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Brien, Special Assistant to the Board 
Mr. O'Connell, General Counsel 
Mr. Axilrod, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 2/ 
Mr. Gramley, Associate Director, Division of 
Research and Statistics 
Mr. Reynolds, Associate Director, Division of 
International Finance If 
Staff presented the regular weekly economic and financial 
review. Copies of the statistical materials prepared for the review 
have been placed in the Board's files, along with copies of the 
^dividual briefings. 
Mr. Cardon then reported on pertinent legislative developments 
after which the meeting continued with limited staff attendance. 
i 
Entered at point indicated in minutes. 
Other officers and staff of the Division also were present. 

4/20/73 
-2-
Stock market developments. Staff presented a review of recent 
stock market and margin credit developments. Related documentation 
included a memorandum dated April 18, 19 73, from the Capital Markets 
Section, a copy of which has been placed in the Board's files. 
Consent calendar. The Board unanimously approved the 
^plication of State Bank of Croswell, Croswell, Michigan, to issue 
capital notes. A copy of the letter sent to the applicant is attached 
as It_em No. 1. 
The Board authorized issuance of an order reflecting the 
Sard's approval on March 29, 1973, of the application of The First 
National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, to acquire shares 
o f The Routt County National Bank of Steamboat Springs, Steamboat 
sPrings, Colorado. A copy is attached under Item No. 2, along with a 
c°Py of the dissenting statement of Governors Robertson and Brimmer. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Dominion 
Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, to acquire shares of The 
Fltton Company, Alexandria, Virginia, and authorized issuance of an 
order reflecting this decision in the form attached as Item No. 3. 
The Board unanimously approved the application of Florida 
bankshares, Inc., Hollywood, Florida, to become a bank holding company 
th 
r°ugh the acquisition of shares of First National Bank of Hollywood, 
HoHywood, Florida; First National Bank of Hallandale, Hallandale, 
Pi 
°rida; and Second National Bank of West Hollywood, Hollywood, Florida. 
6 B°ard authorized issuance of an order reflecting this decision in 
t h e form attached as Item No. 4. 

<<: 1299 
4/20/73 
_3_ 
The Board approved, Governor Sheehan abstaining, (1) the 
application of Dearborn Financial Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, to 
become a bank holding company through the acquisition of the voting 
shares (le ss directors' qualifying shares) of the successor by 
merger to Upper Avenue National Bank of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois; 
and (2) the application of Globe Corporation, Scottsdale, Arizona, 
to convert its 28.87 per cent direct ownership of Upper Avenue 
National Bank of Chicago to indirect ownership through acquisition 
o f 28.87 per cent of the voting shares of Dearborn Financial Corpo-
ration. The Board authorized issuance of orders reflecting these 
decisions. Copies are attached as Items 5 and 6. 
The Board unanimously approved the press announcement of 
the transfer to the National Archives of the 1967 minutes of the 
Scleral Open Market Committee. A copy of the press release is 
attached under Item No. 7, along with a copy of Chairman Burns' 
letter to the Archivist of the United States. 
The Board unanimously approved the applications of National 
Bank of Detroit, Detroit, Michigan; Security Pacific International 
Bank, New York, New York; Security Pacific Overseas Corporation, 
L o s Angeles, California; and Wells Fargo Bank International, New York, 
New York, to continue to hold the stock of Western American Bank 
(Europe) Limited, London, England, after the latter acquires a 
Subsidiary for the purpose of holding equities. Copies of the letters 
Sent to the applicants are attached as Items 8-11. 

i1300 
4/20/73 
-11-
This completed consideration of the consent calendar. 
Chairman Burns entered the meeting at this point. 
Discount rate. On March 23, 1973, the Board considered 
actions by the boards of directors of nine Federal Reserve Banks to 
raise the discount rate from 5-1/2 to 6 or 6-1/2 per cent. After 
discussion the Board members had agreed to defer a decision in 
°rder to provide an opportunity to assess ongoing market and credit 
developments. 
Since March 23, the directors of additional Federal Reserve 
Banks had voted to increase the discount rate, and at the time of 
this meeting proposals had been received from all twelve Federal 
Reserve Banks to raise the rate to 5-3/4 or to 6 per cent, subject 
t o review and determination by the Board of Governors. Pending 
Proposals to increase the rate to 5-3/4 per cent had been received 
^rom the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond on April 18 and from the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Atlanta, Minneapolis, and San Francisco 
° n April 19. Proposals to raise the rate to 6 per cent had been 
made, or most recently renewed, by the Federal Reserve Banks of 
Chicago, St. Louis, and Dallas on April 12, the Federal Reserve 
Bank of Boston on April 13, and the Federal Reserve Banks of New York, 
Philadelphia, and Kansas City on April 19. The directors of the 
Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and Kansas City had authorized 

„ 1301 
4/20/73 
-5-
the Presidents of their respective Banks to submit a rate of 5-3/4 
Per cent in the event that the Board should decide to approve such 
a rate rather than a 6 per cent rate. 
Chairman Burns expressed the view that the time was right 
for a 1/4 percentage point increase. He noted that some banks 
around the country had raised their prime lending rate to large 
business borrowers by 1/4 percentage point in recent days following 
the April 16 announcement by the Committee on Interest and Dividends 
°f criteria for a dual prime rate. Against this background, and 
Specially in light of the substantial advance in short-term market 
interest rates in recent weeks, a 1/4 percentage point increase in 
the discount rate was likely to be viewed as a passive adjustment 
by the System. 
Chairman Burns added that an increase in the rate to 6 per cent 
could certainly be defended on strictly economic grounds, and indeed 
such grounds alone he would have to favor a 1/2 percentage point 
advance in the rate. However, he feared that the larger increase 
might have undesirable side effects under immediately prevailing 
"Circumstances. For example, it might foster further advances in 
bank lending rates and perhaps also in open market interest rates, 
thereby augmenting the pressure on Congress to include mandatory 
interest rate ceilings in the Economic Stabilization Act whose extension 
another year was currently under active consideration. In sum, a 

\ : 1302 
4/20/73 
-6-
1/4 percentage point increase would be a quiet move in the right 
direction and his present inclination would be to consider the 
desirability of a further 1/4 point increase in the relatively near 
future. 
Governor Mitchell agreed that a 1/2 percentage point 
mcrease would be preferable on economic grounds, but he indicated 
that he could vote for a 5-3/4 per cent rate as a step that could 
be taken toward a 6 per cent rate with a minimum of repercussions. 
view of the strength in economic activity, the pronounced rise in 
Prices and costs, and the sizable advance in short-term interest 
rates, a 1/4 point increase in the discount rate would not be viewed 
a s a signal of a shift in monetary policy and indeed would be about 
a s passive a move as could be made under current circumstances. 
Governor Daane indicated that he could vote in favor of a 1/4 
Percentage point increase as a step in the right direction, although 
l s first preference would be to move the rate up by 1/2 percentage 
Point if that could be accomplished without undesirable side effects. 
With regard to timing considerations, he thought it would be important 
t* r\ 
wove the rate before the terms of the upcoming Treasury financing 
W e re announced on April 25; further action to raise the rate would 
^en have to take account of developments relating to the financing. 
Governor Brimmer said he was strongly in favor of a 1/2 
Percentage point increase in the discount rate at this time, but he 
w°uld nQt- w a n t to be on record as voting against a 1/4 point move. 

£ „ 1303 
4/20/73 
_7~ 
In his judgment, a 1/4 point change might well be viewed as a totally 
inadequate response by the System to recent economic and financial 
developments and might indeed be regarded as backing away from the 
System's expressed intention to pursue an anti-inflationary policy. 
Moreover, the statistics on member bank borrowings from the Reserve 
Banks suggested to him that many banks were unjustifiably taking 
advantage of the spread between the discount rate and short-term 
Market rates. In sum, if his colleagues felt that a 1/2 point 
increase would not be timely, he thought it might be preferable to 
delay action until such an increase could be made without undesirable 
repercussions. 
Governor Sheehan said he agreed with the view that an increase 
the discount rate should be limited to 1/4 percentage point at 
is time. He did not share Governor Brimmer's misgivings that such 
increase might be misinterpreted as signaling an inadequate 
Monetary policy, given the reduced growth of the money stock over 
e course of recent months. On the other hand, he was very much 
concerned that a larger rise in the discount rate would be followed 
a sizable advance in bank prime rates, thereby creating an unfa-
vorable atmosphere for Congressional consideration of the extension 
0 f the Economic Stabilization Act. What was needed in his judgment 
Was 
n 
move that clearly would be viewed as a passive adjustment to 
matket developments. 

; : 1304 
4/20/73 
-8-
Governor Bucher said he shared the view that an increase of 
1/2 percentage point was called for on economic grounds, but in light 
°f the considerations outlined by Chairman Burns he could vote for a 
wove of 1/4 point at this time. He had some misgivings, nevertheless, 
about the psychological impact of a 1/4 point advance. In particular, 
it might exacerbate inflationary sentiment in the economy by fostering 
a feeling that monetary policy would not be sufficiently restrictive 
in resisting inflation. It might also contribute to uncertainty in 
financial markets where many observers would be anticipating a further 
increase in the rate. No one could be sure just what the actual 
^action would be, however, and he would be prepared to vote for a 
i/4 point increase because it was a move in the right direction which 
could be followed by a further increase when timing considerations 
aPpeared to be favorable. 
Governor Robertson said he would be willing to vote for a 
1/4 percentage point advance in view of the considerations that had 
been outlined by Chairman Burns and other Board members. His first 
Preference, however, would be to approve today a 1/2 point increase 
in 
order to signal more strongly the System's determination to resist 
inflationary pressures in the economy. 
After further consideration, including review of a draft 
Press release, the Board approved by unanimous vote the establishment 
0 the following rates by the Federal Reserve Banks of Richmond, Atlanta, 

4/20/73 
-10-
Minneapolis, and San Francisco, effective Monday, April 23: 5-3/4 
Per cent on advances to and discounts for member banks under sections 13 
and 13a of the Federal Reserve Act; 6-1/4 per cent on advances to 
member banks under section 10(b) of the Act; and 7-3/4 per cent on 
advances to individuals, partnerships, and corporations other than 
member banks under the last paragraph of section 13 of the Act. It 
W a s understood that the rate on any loans to nonmember banks granted 
l n sPecial circumstances resulting from implementation of earlier 
Ganges in Regulation J would be made at 5-3/4 per cent. 
The Secretary was authorized to advise the other Reserve 
fianks of the Board's approval of the establishment of a 5-3/4 per cent 
rate for those Banks, along with corresponding subsidiary rates, if 
the directors of the remaining Banks should establish such rates. 
Issuance of a press release in the form attached as Item No. 12 
W a s -aiU&firized, 
(Note: Prior to the issuance of a press release, advice was 
received that the directors of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland 
a d voted to establish a discount rate of 5-3/4 per cent and that 
the Presidents of the Federal Reserve Banks of Philadelphia and 
ansas City has submitted proposals for such a rate, as authorized 
°n April 19 by their respective boards of directors. Rates in the 
U e w schedule were therefore approved for those three Banks effective 
P r i l 23. Subsequently, the higher rate schedule was established 

>, 13OB 
4/20/73 
-10-
and approved for the Federal Reserve Banks of Chicago, St. Louis, 
and Dallas, effective April 27; the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, 
effective May 1; and the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, effective 
May 4.) 
Chairman Burns then asked for an executive session of the 
Board, and all staff members except Mr. Holland withdrew. 
Chairman Burns reported that he had had an extended meeting 
Wlth the President on Wednesday. At that meeting, he had discussed 
with the President Governor Robertson's resignation and possible 
Accession therefor. The President then met with members of the 
Quadriad for a thorough discussion of the inflation problem and the 
status of the economic stabilization program. The Chairman reported 
°n suggestions he had made with respect to that program. 
Mr. Smith then re-entered, with Mr. Wood of the Division of 
Personnel Administration. 
Reserve Bank officer appointment. The Federal Reserve Bank 
o f New York had proposed the appointment of Mr. Richard A. Debs as 
pirst Vice President of the Bank, effective June 1, 1973, for the 
ne*pired portion of the five-year term ending February 29, 19 76, 
and tho 
u u e payment of salary to Mr. Debs at an annual rate of $55,000 
for t*u 
Period June 1 through December 31, 1973. After discussion, 
B°ard approved the appointment and salary, as recommended in a 
m°randum from its Committee on Federal Reserve Bank Activities dated 

i 1 3 0 7 
4/20/73 
-11-
April 18, 1973. A copy of the letter sent to the Federal Reserve 
Bank of New York pursuant to this action is attached as Item No. 13. 
The meeting then adjourned. 

1308 
Item No. 1 
B D A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
4/20/73 
or THE 
F E D E R A L R E S E R V E 
S Y S T E M 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A IDRESS OFFICIAL CORKESPONDCNCE 
lO THE BOARD 
April 20, 1973 
Board of Directors 
State Bank of Croswell 
Croswell, Michigan 
Gentl omen: 
Pursuant to section 217.1(f)(3)(i) of Regulation Q and 
section 204.] (f) (3)(i) of Regulation D, the Board of Governors of 
the Federal Reserve System approves the issuance of $400,000 in 
subordinated capital notes by State Bank of Croswell, Croswell, 
Michigan, in the form submitted to the Federal Reserve Bank of 
Chicago. This approval is given on the condition that the capital 
notes cannot be called for redemption prior to maturity without the 
Approval of the Federal Reserve Bank. Approval is granted with the 
l)nderstanding that the sale of the capital notes will be consummated 
Vlthin six months from the date of this letter. It is further under-
stood that any advertising with respect to the obligations will, in 
addition to being in compliance with the provisions of section 217.6 
of" Regulation Q, clearly distinguish the nature of the obligation 
* o m a deposit, including by setting forth in bold face type that 
. c °hligation is subordinated to the claims o. depositors and not 
lnsured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Chester B. Feldberg 
Chester 
Feldberg 
Assistant Secretary of the Board 
(m pM*. 
'•Kr^: 

1309 
Item No. 2 
4/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
THE FIRST NATIONAL 3ANC0RP0RATI0N, INC. 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
The First National Bancorporation, Inc., Denver, Colorado, 
a bank holding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company 
Act> has applied for the Board's approval under § 3(a)(3) of the Act 
U.S.C. 1842(a)(3)) to acquire 80 per cent or more of the voting 
shares of The Routt County National Bank of Steamboat Springs, 
Steamboat Springs, Colorado ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Pers°ns to submit comments and views, has been given in accordance with 
§ 3 ( b ) 
of the Act. The time for filing comments and views has expired, 
a n d the Board has considered the application and all comments received 
l a Ught of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, the largest banking organization in Colorado, 
c°ntrols eight banks with deposits of $787.2 million, representing 
per cent of total deposits of commercial banks in the State. (All 
b a n U n g data are as of June 30, 1972, and reflect holding company 
f r\ 
1 / 
Nations and acquisitions approved through December 31, 1972.)J 
^summation of the proposed acquisition of Bank ($20 million of deposits) 
° U l d increase Applicant's share of deposits of commercial banks in 
n , 
orado by less than .5 percentage points and would not result in a 
Sl8nificant i n c r e a s e i n concentration of bank resources in Colorado. 
and November 3, 1970, respectively, the Board announced 
Bank
apPr°val of Applicant's applications to acquire The First National 
Seen 
Greeley, Greeley, Colorado ($40 million of deposits) and The 
deputy State Bank of Sterling, Sterling, Colorado ($24 million of 
U ^ t s ) , 
Consummation of these acquisitions has been delayed by 
Ration instituted by the Department of Justice. 

1310 
-2-
Bank operates one office and is the only bank in Steamboat 
sPrings> Routt County, Colorado, a sparsely populated rural community 
seated in northwestern Colorado. Bank is located approximately 150 
r°ad miles northwest of Applicant's lead bank (First National Bank, 
D e n v e r> deposits of $615 million) which is located in Denver, Colorado, 
ar*d is the largest commercial bank in the State. Consummation of this 
pr°Posed acquistiion would constitute Applicant's initial entry into 
an area west of the Rocky Mountains. No competition exists between 
B a n k a n d any of Applicant's subsidiaries. In view of distances 
SeParating Bank from Applicant's present subsidiaries, geographical 
barriers and Colorado's restrictive branching laws, it is unlikely 
th 
a t a ny significant competition would develop in the future between 
Bank ,, , 
* ar*d any of Applicant's subsidiary banks that would be eliminated 
y c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition. 
Considerations relating to the financial and managerial 
c e s and prospects of Applicant, its subsidiaries and Bank are 
8arded as satisfactory and consistent with approval of the application, 
The 
United States Department of Justice 
commenting on 
Proposal stated that if multiple acquisitions were made in western 
0l°rad0 by the few leading Colorado bank holding companies, such a 
CoUrs 
e might have serious competitive effects by deterring the formation 
Iocal alternatives. While stating that it was difficult to assess 
6 Weight of these anticompetitive effects in the context of any 
acquisition, the Department felt that the proposal would have 

_ 1311 
-3-
The Board agrees that developments such as those cited by 
e department would have serious competitive effects. However, the 
Bo^j. J 
evaluates each proposal as to the merits of that proposal. As 
ated above, consummation of this proposal would eliminate no existing 
likely potential competition with present subsidiaries of Applicant. A 
C 6 n t barter application for Steamboat Springs was denied by the 
Banking Board on the basis that the need for the new bank had 
keen demonstrated. This determination was reversed by the Routt County 
Dig*. . ct Court and is currently on appeal. In the interim, two other 
State 
holding 
charter applications have been filed, including one by a multibank 
company. In view of the above, and the low population density of 
°at Springs, it appears unlikely that Applicant would attempt to 
6nter fK e market de novo. 
On the basis of the record before it, the Board concludes 
c°nsummation of the proposed acquisition would not adversely 
p 
competition in any relevant area. The Board further concludes 
c°nsummation of the proposal would not have a significantly adverse 
6ffect o 
n the development of a new bank in Steamboat Springs were a 
c W t e r to be granted. 
Development of the Steamboat Springs area into a year-round 
VaC3tion „ 
area has increased the demand for banking services beyond local 
i es, particularly for business enterprise and commercial real 
*8tate x lending. Affiliation with Applicant would facilitate loan 

1312 
-2-i 
Participations with respect to larger real estate loans and other business 
as well as giving bank access to real estate lending expertise. It 
W°Uld also allow Bank to aggressively encourage the development of recreational 
and to service the growing trust needs of the area which are 
G e n t l y going unserved locally. Considerations relating to the convenience 
needs of the communities to be served, therefore, lend considerable 
WeiSht toward approval of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
transaction would be in the public interest and should be approved. 
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the 
r°aaons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
^ before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this 
this n 
urder, or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the Board, 
h y the yeiieral Reserve Bank of Kansas City, pursuant to delegated 
*Uthority. 
2/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 20, 1973, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
this action: Governors Mitchell, Sheehan, and Bucher. 
^Sent 
this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governor Brimmer, 
and not voting: Chairman Burns and Governor Daane. 

_ 1313 
DISSENTING STATEMENT OF GOVERNORS ROBERTSON AND BRIMMER 
We dissent from the majority's action approving the entry 
0f APPlicant, the largest banking organization in Colorado, into Steam-
b°at Springs through acquisition of the only bank in that community. 
C q U i s i t l o n o f Bank by Applicant very likely would have significant 
e r s e effects on the development of effective competition in the 
Steamboat Springs area. 
On numerous occasions, we have expressed our objection to 
the 
n°w familiar practice of the largest bank holding companies in 
i r respective states expanding statewide into new markets through 
e acquisition of the largest-or most viable-independent banks in smaller 
Unities. 
The majority's action, authorizing Applicant's acquisition 
will result in Applicant acquiring a virtual monopoly position 
Steamboat Springs. Such action will transfer control over the 
8 resources of Steamboat Springs to a single large banking organiza-
tion go that prospects for the development of effective competition in 
the a r e a will be materially reduced. 
Although situated in the remote northwestern portion of the 
» steamboat Springs is not a dormant little mountain town. While 
its 
PoPulation is small, its rate of growth has kept pace with the rest 
th 
cue Stnt-
u a ce, and it is an area of increasing development and growth. 
lth*n th. , 
, 
last few years, through the efforts of developers and investors, 
the * 
nas become a major winter and year-round recreation center. 
n k ($20 million of deposits) has benefited significantly from the area's 
and it is now the largest bank in the northwestern sector of 

1314 
-2-
Colorado~having doubled its deposits since 1968. Bank has played an 
C t i v e r°le in encouraging local economic development. It has been 
Irving well other banking needs of the residents of Steamboat Springs, 
and it- Q 
appears capable of continued beneficial service to the community 
Without affiliation with Applicant. 
In our opinion, Applicant should be required to enter Steara-
at Springs through the formation of a new bank rather than through 
quisition of Bank. Applicant is the State's largest bank holding 
mpany with approximately 15 per cent of the deposits of commercial 
ba^kg . 
n the State. Undoubtedly, it has the financial and managerial 
tesourcp 
necessary to support its entry de novo into Steamboat Springs. 
Majority points to the fact that three separate groups have applied 
a r t e r s to organize nex* banks in Steamboat Springs as support for 
the p 
°Position that it is unlikely that Applicant would attempt to enter 
^ 
c springs de novo. The fact that groups other than Applicant 
aPplied for bank charters in Steamboat Springs (possibly making 
AppIieant»<, 
53 prospects for being granted a new charter less likely) in 
stifies approval of Applicant's request to acquire a monopoly 
p°sition in Steamboat Springs through acquisition of Rank. The very fact 
that „ 
** numeroticj 
u s groups are attempting to organize new banks in that community 
V e s as st. 
trong indication of the present or potential ability of the 
a to s 
SuPPort at least one other bank. 

_ 1315 
-3-
In commenting on this case, the Department of Justice observed 
t^at permitting the large Denver-based holding companies to expand to 
e Western slope in Colorado through acquisition of the strongest 
ePendent banks in that area would serve to deter the development of 
addltional banking alternatives in these local markets. We concur with 
J.L 
view. Any new bank that may be organized in Steamboat Springs will 
ha 
an uphill struggle in the face of Bank's already dominant position. 
Up0n 
acquisition of Bank by Applicant, Bank's present dominance will 
Neatly reinforced, thus making even more uncertain the prospects 
° r meaningful competition developing in the foreseeable future in 
teamboat Springs from a newly established bank. 
In our judgment, these potential adverse effects are not outweighed 
a n y Public benefits that have been cited as likely to result from the 
ation of Bank with Applicant. We believe this application should 
b e ^nied. 
A P r i l 20, 1 9 7 3 . 

1316 
Item No. 3 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/20/73 
DOMINION BANKSHARES CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of The Fitton Company 
Dominion Bankshares Corporation, Roanoke, Virginia, a bank 
hiding company within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, 
h a s applied for the Board's approval, under g 4(c)(8) of the Act and 
5 225-4(b)(2) of the Board's Regulation Y, to acquire all of the 
Voting shares of The Fitton Company, Alexandria, Virginia. The 
Fitt 
Company, through its ownership of all the shares of Metropolitan 
Mortgage Fund, Inc. ("Metropolitan"), Alexandria, Virginia, and 
53.5 
Per cent of the shares of Metropolitan Data Services, Inc. 
("Dat 
Services"), Alexandria, Virginia, engages in the activities 
of a 
mortgage company and in the activities of a data processing 
mPany} respectively. Certain mortgage banking activities and data 
°Cessing activities have been determined by the Board to be closely 
t e l a t e d to banking (12 CFR 225.4(a)(1), (3) and (8)). A bank holding 
m p a n y m ay acquire a company engaged in an activity determined by 
Board to be closely related to banking provided that the proposed 
qulsition is warranted under the relevant public interest factors 
Pecified i n § 4(c)(8) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1848(c)(8)). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for interested 
Petsons * 
c° submit comments and views on the public interest factors, 
has be 
en duly published (38 Federal Register 916).!/ The time for 
te*ated P U b l i s h e d notice of this application included notice of a 
Vit8ini 3 p p l i c a t i o n to acquire Fitton Insurance Agency, Inc., Alexandria, 
H°WeVer ^ 
t h e r e b y 
to engage in certain insurance agency activities. 
^Uest'ri^1"617 a n objection to that application was received, Applicant 
Board 
S e p a r a t e consideration of the applications to avoid delay 
to the 
Consideration of this application. This order relates only 
aPplication to acquire The Fitton Company. 

1317 
-2-i 
filing comments and views has expiredj and the Board has considered 
all comments received in the light of the public interest factors 
set forth in 5 4(c)(8) of the Act. 
Applicant, the fifth largest banking organization in Virginia, 
controls seven banks with aggregate deposits of $735 million, 
Representing 7.5 per cent of commercial bank deposits in the State. 
Each of Applicant's banks makes individual and commercial mortgage 
loans, and Applicant's lead bank also engages in servicing mortgages 
investors. Two of Applicant's banks are also engaged in providing 
data processing services similar to those provided by Data Services. 
Applicant's nonbanking subsidiaries include a service company, a 
K 
premises company, a leasing corporation, and State Mortgage 
^Poration, which engages primarily in the making of loanS to 
lndividuals secured by second mortgages on residential real estate. 
The Fitton Company engages in no business activity directly 
and nni y serves to hold all of the stock of Metropolitan and 53.5 per 
n t °f the stock of Data Services.!/ Metropolitan engages in the 
Agination of residential, commercial, and industrial mortgage 
103 tig F 
its own account and for the accounts of investors, and the 
Servicing 
n8 of such loans for investors. Metropolitan also owns an 
eveloped tract of land which it purchased with the intention of 
holdij1 b a n l c i n6 d ata are as of June 30, 1972, adjusted to reflect bank 
1973 
8 comPany formations and acquisitions approved through February 28, 
3/ The 
s u b j e c t remainder of the stock is held by Data Services' employees 
If emni t o a n agreement whereby Data Services may purchase such shares 
^Ployment is terminated. 

>_1318 
-3-
^°ldirlg fof future sale to a developer. The Board has stated that 
th 
e purchase and sale of land is not an activity closely related to 
inking (1972 Federal Reserve Bulletin 429). Applicant has indicated 
its 
wUlingness promptly to dispose of the tract. 
Data Services engages primarily in providing bookkeeping 
U d accounting services for Metropolitan. Data Services also provides 
m i t e d d a t a processing services for other businesses and had gross 
ervicing income of $58,000 in its last fiscal year from these outside 
Urces. Applicant has stated that, if its application is approved, 
Data Se 
rvices will no longer provide services unrelated to the pro-
i 0 n o f financially oriented data processing services. 
Metropolitan originated approximately $42 million of mortgage 
loans d U r i n 8 the 12-month period ending August 31, 1972 and had a 
fttotto 
a§e servicing volume of about $141 million as of November 30, 
1 9 7 2. Th* 
A»e activities of Metropolitan, whose sole office is in 
Ale*«ndria 
& 
«» are centered in the Washington, D. C., market 
where in 
**Cess of QS> per cent of its mortgage originations and 95 per cent 
of lt. 
^ 
mortgage servicing activities take place. Metropolitan's 
Sage origi n a t i o n g 0f approximately $38 million in the Washington, 
• C. 
market represent 2 per cent of originations within the market. 
Of Applicant's subsidiaries, only Dominion National Bank 
» Bailey's Crossroads, Virginia (deposits of $54 million) 
lively c 
competes for mortgage originations in the Washington area and 
& 
_.Fpro 
of °%» ^ r i n c e ^ b y t h C W a s h i n 8 t o n » 
c*» S M S A comprised of Washington, 
p 
Ge°rges and Montgomery Counties in Maryland, the City 
ntie8 ir.t9 a n d Fairfax, Arlington, Prince William and Loudon 
l n Virginia. 

1319 
none of Applicant's subsidiaries engages in mortgage servicing activities 
*n the Washington area. During the 12-month period ending August 31, 
Bank originated some $8 million in mortgage loans representing less 
0,5 per cent of originations within the Washington market. 
It 
appears that consummation of the proposal, insofar as it 
relates to Metropolitan, would not eliminate any significant eKirting 
c°mpetition nor foreclose the development of significant competition, 
Particuiarly in view of the large number of firms engaged in mortgage 
ConiPany activities within the Washington market. Nor does it seem likely 
th «• consummation of the proposal would have any meaningful adverse 
c°topetitive effects outside the Washington market. Consummation of the 
proposal, insofar as it relates to Data Services, is not expected to 
a v e significant anticompetitive effects, particularly in view of the 
a C t s tllat Data Services principally serves Metropolitan's data 
rviclng needs and has only a limited number of outside customers. 
Any slight anticompetitive effects which might result from 
PProval of the proposal are outweighed in the public interest by other 
Consj^i 
erations. Upon consummation of the proposal, Applicant proposes 
augment the capital of Metropolitan by at least $500,000, thereby 
8ignif -j 
icantly strengthening Metropolitan's capital position and 
S it to become a more effective competitor*. Affiliation with 
°atlt w i H also provide Metropolitan with more ready access to 
f inane iai markets; thereby increasing funds available to meet the credit 
^^mands f 
housing and other construction in the Washington area. 

"5" 
*. 1320 
Based upon the foregoing and other considerations reflected in 
record, the Board has determined that the balance of the public 
w 
terest factors the Eoard is required to consider under section 4(c)(8) 
favorable. However, as noted previously, Metropolitan is presently 
^ d i n g a tract of land for development and, in the Board's judgment, 
S U c h activity is not a permissible one for bank holding companies. Thus, 
B°ard approval of the proposal is granted subject to the condition that 
applicant divest of the tract of land at the earliest practicable time, 
but in 
j-n no event later than one year from the date of this Order. Accord-
n g l y' APPlicant's proposal to acquire The Fitton Company is hereby 
Pptoved subject to the above condition and on the understanding that 
a t a Services' activities will be limited to activities permitted under 
§ 225-4(a)(8) of the Board's Regulation Y. 
The order herein is also subject to the conditions set forth 
ln § 225.4(c) of Regulation Y (12 CFR 225.4(c)) and to the Board's 
author1 
to require such modification or termination of the activities 
of a h 
holding company or any of its subsidiaries as the Board finds 
essary to assure compliance with the provisions and purposes of the 
Act a n d 
the Board's regulations and orders issued thereunder, or to 
erit evasion thereof. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 23, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
t)aane°t:Jn8 f o r t h i s action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors Mitchell, 
dimmer, Sheehan and Bucher. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

1321 
Item No. 4 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
4/20/73 
FLORIDA BANKSHARES, INC. 
Order Approving Formation of Bank Holding Company 
Florida Bankshares, Inc., Hollywood, Florida, has applied for 
the Board's approval under § 3(a)(1) of the Bank Holding Company Act 
U«S,C. 1842(a)(1)) of formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent of the voting shares (less directors' 
q u aUfying shares) of the following banks: First National Bank of 
H°Uywood, Hollywood ("Hollywood Bank"); First National Bank of 
HaUandale, Hallandale ("Hallandale Bank"); and Second National Bank 
o f West Hollywood, Hollywood ("West Hollywood Bank"), all located in 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for inter-
ested 
persons to submit comments and views, has been given in 
acc°rdance with § 3(b) of the Act. The time for filing comments and 
nas expired, and the Board has considered the application and all 
0rn®ents received in light of the factors set forth in § 3(c) of the 
A c t <12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant is a nonoperating corporation formed for the 
exPres« Purpose of acquiring Hollywood Bank (deposits of $77 million); 
Haii 
nQale Bank (deposits of $6 million); and West Hollywood Bank (estab-
Itaj^ , 
a September 19, 1972X (All banking data are as of June 30, 1972, 
teflect holding company formations and acquisitions approved 
t h t° U g h March 31, 1973.) 

_ 1322 
-2-
The three banks proposed to be acquired are located in the 
heater Miami Banking Market where 22 bank holding companies are 
Presently represented. Hollywood, Hallandale, and West Hollywood Banks 
control approximately 2 per cent of market deposits. All three banks 
a t e closely affiliated through common officers, directors, shareholders, 
operating policies, and no significant present competition exists 
between the group. In view of their close relationship, it appears 
nHkely that consummation of this proposal would foreclose any meaning-
u l Potential competition. It is the Board's opinion that the proposed 
N a t i o n would have no adverse effect on existing or potential compe-
titi 
°n> and would not tend to create a monopoly or in any manner be in 
6straint of trade in the relevant areas. 
Applicant has no present operations, and its financial 
iQn, management, and prospects are dependent on those same con-
ciiti 
o n s in the banks proposed to be acquired, all of which are considered 
to 
satisfactory. Prospects for the group appear favorable. Banking 
are consistent with approval of this application. The banking 
need8 o f 
* trie communities appear to be satisfactorily served at the 
pte8ent n 
time. Applicant proposes no substantial benefits that would be 
derived f 
rrom the proposed affiliation. However, the holding company 
8tructur« 
ce would result in expanded lending limits for the banks and a 
b*°ader 
Market for corporate stock. Considerations relating to the 
eiice and needs of the communities to be served are consistent 
with a 
PProval. It is the Board's judgment that the transaction would be 
Public interest and that the application should be approved. 

• _ 13^3 
-3-
On the basis of the record, the application is approved for 
the reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be consummated 
(a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the effective date of 
this Order or (b) later than three months after the effective date of 
tllis Order, unless such period is extended for good cause by the 
B°ard or by the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta pursuant to delegated 
authority. 
1/ 
By order of the Board of Governors, 
effective April 20, 1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
(SEAL) 
Voting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
v
 tchellJ Daane, Brimmer, Sheehan, and Bucher. Absent and not 
° U n g : 
Chairman Burns. 

i. 1324 
Item No. 5 
4/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEII 
DEARBORN FINANCIAL CORPORATION 
Order Approving Formation of a Holding Company 
Dearborn Financial Corporation, Chicago, Illinois, has 
^PPlied under § 3(a)(I) of the Bank Holding Company Act (12 U.S.d. 
(a)(i)) 0f formation of a bank holding company through 
acquisition of 100 per cent (less directors' qualifying shares) 
0f the successor by merger to Upper Avenue National Bank of 
Chicago, Chicago, Illinois ("Bank"). The bank into which Bank 
^ be merged has no significance except as a means to facilitate 
^Suisition of the voting shares of Bank. Accordingly, the 
pr°Posed acauisition is treated herein as the proposed acquisition 
shares of Bank, 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
lnt^rested persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
accordance with § 3(b) of the Act. Time for filing comments 
views has expired, and the Board has considered the applica-
ta-°n and all comments received in light of the factors set forth 
§ 3(c) of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1342(c)). 
Applicant, a newly organized corporation, was formed by 
the Management of Bank (deposits of $96 million).1/ Upon acqui-
Sltion of Bank, Applicant would control less than half of a per 
CGnt of deposits of commercial banks in Illinois. Since this 
data are as of June 30, 1972. 

no 
1325 
^Plication only seeks in general to change the ownership of 
from individual holdings to a corporate form, there would 
adverse effects on competition in any relevant area. 
The financial and managerial resources and future prospects 
applicant 
depend on Bank. These prospects appear favorable, 
Particularly in view of Bank's desirable location in Chicago. 
^ U c a n t has committed itself to provide additional capital 
Ba^k so that banking factors lend support for approval of 
application. Considerations relating to the convenience 
nci needs of the community to be served are consistent with 
0val of the application. It is the Board's judgment that 
summation of the proposed acquisition would be in the public 
tei?est and that the application should be approved. 
°n the basis of the record the application is approved 
reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
untmated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
c U V e date of this Order, or (b) later than three months 
the effective date of this Order, unless such period is 
a<3ecl for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
fot 
197 
o f Chicago, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective April 20, 
3 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
ting for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
' D a a n®/ Brimmer, and Bucher. Present and abstaining: 
° r Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

* 
13^16 
f 
-
Item No. 6 
i 
4/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTE1I 
GLOBE CORPORATION 
Order Approving Acquisition of Bank 
Globe Corporation, Scottsdale, Arizona, a bank holding 
0ltlPany within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act, has 
for the Board's approval under § 3(a) (3) of the Act 
(12 TJ o 
1842(a)(3)) to indirectly acquire 28,87 per cent of 
the 
• 
v°ting shares of Upper Avenue national Bank of Chicago, 
Chx°*go, Illinois ("Bank"). 
Notice of the application, affording opportunity for 
er^sted persons to submit comments and views, has been given 
aCcordance with 5 3(b) of the Act* Time for filing comments 
^ 
vi 
has expired, and the Board has considered the applica-
all comments received in light of the factors set forth 
ih s -
of the Act (12 U.S.C. 1842(c)). 
Applicant, which presently controls 28.87 per cent of 
t h e V °ting shares of Bank, will exchange these shares, on a 
s 
f 
share basis, for those of Dearborn Financial Corporation, 
Illinois, resulting in Applicant owning indirectly 
of directly 28.87 per cent of the shares of Bank. For 
^-^sons summarized in the Board's Order of this date 
the formation of Dearborn Financial Corporation, the 
includes that approval of this application is in the 
•Lnterest. 

1327 
- 2 -
On the basis of the record the application is approved 
r ^ e reasons summarized above. The transaction shall not be 
C°nsummated (a) before the thirtieth calendar day following the 
ective date of this Order, or (b) later than three months 
after the effective date of this Order, unless this period is 
e'xtQnded for good cause by the Board or by the Federal Reserve 
°f Chicago, pursuant to delegated authority. 
By order of the Board of Governors,!/ effective April 20, 
1973. 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
" 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 
5tt 
for this action: Vice Chairman Robertson and Governors 
^QVo 
' Daane, Brimmer, and Bucher. Present and abstaining: 
etnor Sheehan. Absent and not voting: Chairman Burns. 

Item No. 7 
F 
# 
4/20/73 
0 r immediate release 
* 
April 24, 1973 
Ihe Federal Reserve announced today that minutes of discussio ns 
actions at the meetings of the Federal Open Market Committee during 
^96? a r e being transferred to the National Archives. 
^teri 
These minutes are contained in approximately 1500 pages of typed 
rial. Their transfer has been arranged on the understanding that 
the 
ft 
~~ 
^ ' 
ational Archives will m a k e them available for inspection by 
e a persons under its usual rules and procedures. 
Similar records for earlier years are already available at the 
Kaf 
°hal Archives on the s a m e basis; minutes of the Committee for 
trough I960 were transferred in 1964, those for 1961 were 
-rred in 1967, those for 1962 through 1965 were transferred in 
>970, a , t 
nc* those for 1966 were transferred last year. The National 
^i-chiv £3 will furnish complete microfilm copies of these earlier 
-or a fee, and will be prepared later to furnish similar copies 
^ 
i q /•> 
' minutes. 
Copies of the minutes for 1967 also will be m a d e available later 
fc>l" Pubr 
l c mapection at the Board's offices in Washington and at each 
^ t a l v, 
Reserve Bank and Branch, the s a m e procedure followed with 

- 2 -
respect to earlier records. Meanwhile, ,a work copy is available for 
lr*Spection at the Board's offices, and another at the Federal Reserve 
of N e w York. 
Release of the minutes from 1962 on has presented special 
Problems involving international financial relationships, an area in 
which Federal Reserve activity has increased considerably in recent 
^ars. A s in the case of the 1962-66 minutes, a number of passages 
1 
- 
r-^r'* 
V e been deleted from the 1967 minutes, with a footnote in each case 
^ic&ting the general nature or subject of the doleteH matter. 
-0-

I „ 1330 
CHAIRMAN O F THE BOARD OF GOVERNORS 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, D. C. 
2 0 5 5 1 
film 
May 3, 1973 
Mr, James B. Rhoads 
Archivist of the United States 
National Archives Building 
Washington, D.C. 20403 
Dear Mr. Rhoads: 
^ e Board of. Governors of the Federal Reserve System and 'the Federal 
^Pen Market Committee have previously authorized transfers from the 
*>oar<l to the custody of the Archivist of the United States of the 
013ginal minutes of discussions and actions at meetings of the Fed-
eral Open Market Committee from the date the Commit Lee was organized 
March 1936 to the end of the year 1966. The transfers were com-
pleted, and the records in question have been available to interested 
Per sons. 
fnr ^ 
e Board and Committee have now authorized the transfer to the custody 
in t h e A r c l l i v i s t o I the United States of the minutes of the Committee's 
^Jctings for the year 1967. These minutes, comprising about 1500 pages 
- typed material, are being transferred on the same understanding as 
win a p p U c r , b I c t:o earlier minutes, that is, that the National Archives 
1 make them available for inspection by interested persons under its 
sual rules and procedures. 
As you will observe from the prefatory note attached to the volume 
b
c>1 1967, a number of pages of the original minutes have been replaced 
y substitute pages on which particular passages contained in the origi-
d
a minutes are deleted. 
In each such case, the point at which the 
Li ,Gti?n h a s b e c n ,nacie i s n°ted and the general nature or subject of 
t
o n ^ t : t e d passage, is indicated by footnote. Reasons for which dele-
^•oas have been made are given in the prefatory note. This general 
"oeedure was also followed in the minutes for 1962-66. 
Sincerely yours, 
. 1 
Arthur F. Burns 

^ 1331 
B O A R D D F G O V E R N O R S 
Item NO. 8 
• F THE 
4/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. C. 
20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C C R R E S P O N O E N C E 
T O T H E 
S O A R O 
April 23, 1973 
National Bank of Detroit 
Woodward at Fort Street 
Detroit, Michigan 48232 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 11, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your bank to continue to 
hold the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, ( WAB 
London, England, after WAB acquires all of the shares of Penlora 
Limited 
("PL"), a United Kingdom corporation, at a cost of approxi-
mately L100 (about $250), provided the shares are acquired within 
one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of PL by your bank is granted subject to the 
following conditions: 
(1) That your bank shall not hold, directly or indirectly, 
any shares of stock in PL if PL at any time fails to 
restrict its activities to those permissible to a 
corporation in which a corporation organized under 
Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve Act could, with 
the consent of the Board of Governors, purchase and 
hold stock, or if PL establishes any branch or agency 
or takes any action or undertakes any operation in 
England or elsewhere, in any manner, which at the 
time would not be permissible to WAB; 
(2) That. when required by the Board of Governors, your 
bank"will furnish the Board with such reports re-
garding the activities of PL as it nay require from 
time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if PL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

1: 1332 
National Bank of Detroit 
-2-
The Board also grants its approval for PL to issue and 
have outstanding at any one time obligations to WAB with maturities 
in excess of one year up to a maximum of $15,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not in-
volve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

fr. 1333 
BOARD D F 
G D V E R N C R S 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
O. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 9 
4/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
D T F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 23, 1973 
Security Pacific International Bank 
270 Park Avenue 
New York, New York 10017 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 9, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue to 
hold the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, ("WAS"), 
London, England, after WAB acquires all of the shares of Penlora 
Limited, ("PL"), a United Kingdom corporation, at a cost of approxi 
lately B100 (about $250), provided the shares are acquired within 
°ne year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of PL by your Corporation is granted subject to 
the following conditions: 
(1) That your Corporation shall not hold, directly or 
indirectly, any shares of stock in PL if PL at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Eoard of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if PL establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in England or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to WAB; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, your 
Corporation will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of PL as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PL 
be reported under Section 211.3(d) ot Regulation K 
in the same manner as if PL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act; 

' _1334 
Security Pacific International Bank 
-2-
The Board also grants its approval for PL to issue and 
have outstanding at any one time obligations to WAB with maturities 
in excess of one year up to a maximum of $15,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

RES** 
BOARD OF G DVERN • RS 
Item No. 10 
• F THE 
4/20/73 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O 
T H E 
B O A R D 
April 23, 1973 
Security Pacific Overseas Corporation 
561 South Spring Street 
Los Angeles, California 90013 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 9, 1973, the Board 
of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue to 
hold indirectly the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, 
("WAB"), London, England, after WAB acquires all of the shares of 
Penlora Limited, ("PL"), a United Kingdom corporation, at a cost of 
approximately L100 (about $250), provided the shares are acquired 
within one year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase and 
holding of shares of PL by your Corporation is granted subject to 
the following conditions: 
(1) That your Corporation shall not hold, directly or 
indirectly, any shares of stock in PL if PL at 
any time fails to restrict its activities to those 
permissible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
A.ct could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if PL establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action or undertakes 
any operation in England or elsewhere, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to WAB; 
(2) That, xchen required by the Board of Governors, your 
Corporation will furnish the Board with such reports 
regarding the activities of PL as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) of Regulation K 
in the same manner as if PL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Tederal Reserve 
Act. 

^ 13iib 
Security Pacific Overseas Corporation 
-2-
The Board also grants its approval for PL to issue and 
have outstanding at any one time obligations to WAB with maturities 
in excess of one year up to a maximum of $15,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not in-
volve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

. 1337 
BOARD OF G O V E R N O R S 
OF T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 20551 
Item No. 11 
4/20/73 
A D D R E S S 
O F F I C I A L 
C O R R E S P O N D E N C E 
T O T H E 
B O A R D 
April 23, 1973 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
40 Wall Street 
New York, New York 
10005 
Gentlemen: 
As requested in your letter of January 18, 1973, the 
Board of Governors grants consent for your Corporation to continue 
to hold the shares of Western American Bank (Europe) Limited, ("WAB"), 
London, England, after WAB acquires all of the shares of Penlora 
Limited, ("PL"), a United Kingdom corporation, at a cost of approxi-
mately tl00 (about $250), provided the shares are acquired within 
°ne year from the date of this letter. 
The Board's consent to the proposed indirect purchase ana 
holding of shares of PL by your Corporation is granted subject to 
the following conditions: 
(1) That your Corporation shall not hold, directly or 
indirectly, any shares of stock in PL if PL at any 
time fails to restrict its activities to those per-
missible to a corporation in which a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act could, with the consent of the Board of Governors, 
purchase and hold stock, or if PL establishes any 
branch or agency or takes any action jr undertakes 
any operation in England or elsewhere:-, in any manner, 
which at the time would not be permissible to WAB; 
(2) That, when required by the Board of Governors, your 
Corporation will furnish the Board WLth such reports 
regarding the activities of PL as it may require 
from time to time; and 
(3) That any share acquisitions or dispositions by PL 
be reported under Section 211.8(d) c.. Regulation, K 
in the same manner as if PL were a corporation 
organized under Section 25(a) of the Federal Reserve 
Act. 

1338 
Wells Fargo Bank International 
-2-
The Board also grants its approval for PL to issue and 
have outstanding at any one time obligations to WAB with maturities 
in excess of one year up to a maximum of $15,000,000. 
The foregoing consent is given on the condition that the 
acquisition will be made with the resources of WAB and will not 
involve any transfer of funds, either directly or indirectly, from 
the United States. 
Very truly yours, 
(Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
Secretary of the Board 

Item No. 12 
4/20/73 
immediate release 
April 20, 1973 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
today approved actions by the directors of the Federal Reserve 
Kanks of Philadelphia, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, Minneapolis, 
Kansas City and San Francisco increasing the discount rates of 
these banks from 5 1/2 per cent to 5 3/4 per cent, effective 
Monday, April 23. 
In announcing the action, the Board took note of 
developments in the money markets that have occurred since the 
discount rate was raised to 5 1/2 per cent, effective on 
t r u s t y 26. The discount rate is the rate charged member banks 
f°l" borrowings from their district Federal Reserve banks. 

B O A R D 
O F 
G O V E R N O R S 
Item No. 13 
A / 2 0 / 7 3 
O F 
T H E 
FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 
IKRSONAL AND 
CONFIDENTIAL 
' Mr. Ronwe11 L. Gilpatric 
Chairman of the Board 
ftvJeral Reserve Bank 
I 
of Nov/ York 
* -New York, New York -10045 
I, . Dear Mr. Qi. 1 p a t r i c : 
The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System 
has approved the appointment of Richard A. Debs as First. V5.ce 
President: of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, effective 
fee ly 197 3, for the unexpired portion of Mr. Treiber's term 
ending February 7.9, 1976, The. Beard has also approved an 
Manual salary of $55,000 for lit. Debs for the i, ariod June 1 
throu^l. December. 31 , 3 973. This salary is as fixed by your 
Board o£ Directors and reported in your letter of April 5, 
1973. 
WASHINGTON, 
D. 
C. 205G1 
AoorirfiS DfriciAU cnRncsPONorwcc 
TO THE UDAflD 
April 20, 3 973 
Very trui ,T yours 
. (Signed) Tynan Smith 
Tynan Smith 
*Secr ctary 
